Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24604
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(TF-28620; TF-28629)
July 25, 2002
Operations Evaluation Department
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
This document has been prepared for the Global Environment Facility (GEF).



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Average Exchange rate:
At appraisal (June 1992) -US$1.00 = Bs. 3.8992
At close (1998 average) - US$1.00 = Bs. 5.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBCP             Biodiversity Conservation Project
CABI             Capitania del Alto y Bajo Isoso
DGB              Direcci6n General de la Biodiversidad
DNCB             Direcci6n Nacional de Conservaci6n de la Biodiversidad (National
Directorate for Conservation of Biodiversity)
FUNDESNAP        Fundaci6n para el Desarrollo del Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas
(Foundation for the Development of the National System of Protected Areas)
FONAMA           Fondo Nacional para el Medio Ambiente (National Environmental Fund)
GEF              Global Environment Facility
GNP              Gross National Product
MC               Management committee
MDSA             Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Medio Ambiente (Ministry of
Sustainable Development and Environment)
MDSP             Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Planificaci6n (Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Planning)
NGO              Nongovernmental organization
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
SENMA            Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente (National Secretary of the
Environment)
SERNAP           Servicio Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National Protected Areas Service)
SNAP             Sistema Nacional de Areas Protegidas (National Protected Areas System)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation          : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department       : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     : Mr. Andres Liebenthal



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons.drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. Assessments are conducted one to seven years after a project has closed. In selecting
operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant
to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested
assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches
selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate the project ratings and examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratUngs: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ...v...........................v
Preface .............................. vii
Executive Summary ..............................                                 ix
Introduction and Background ..............................1I
Overview ...............................1
Country and Sector Context ...............................1
Institutional Arrangements ..............................2
Project Objectives and Relevance ...............................2
Efficacy ......,,.3
Implementation of the SNAP and Support to Protected Areas ..............................3
Citizen Participation and Alternative Management System of Natural Resources
in Buffer Zones .........................................................4
Monitoring and Information ................ .........................................7
Efficiency ................7.,,,......7
Outcome ................                                                   7
Institutional Development .................8
Quality at Entry ................                                  10
Supervision ................                                       10
BorrowerPerformance ...............                                       I 11
Lessons Learned and Future Directions .................................11
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ................................                       13



Al



v
Principal Ratings
PPAR
Outcome                                                             Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                                                             Likely
Institutional Development Impact                                         Substantial
Bank Performance                                                         Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                                     Satisfactory



IA



vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Appraisal Report (PPAR) on the Biodiversity Conservation
Project (BBCP) for which the Global Environment Facility (GEF) approved a grant of US$4.5
million to the govenmment of Bolivia in October 1992.
This report was prepared by Operations Evaluation Department (OED) mission that
visited Bolivia in December 2001 to discuss the grant with the govemment and the various
project implementing agencies and to visit a sample of the protected areas that benefited from the
project. The cooperation and assistance of govemment officials at the National Service for
Protected Areas (SERNAP) is gratefully acknowledged.
This PPAR focuses especially on evaluating citizen participation and biodiversity
monitoring. In addition, as the last disbursements from the project were three years ago, this
report also devotes special attention to assessing the factors that seem to be contributing to
sustainability.
Following standard OED procedure, a draft of this draft PPAR was sent to the borrower
for comments. The govermnent's comments have been taken into account in the final version.






ix
Executive Summary
This is a Project Performnance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the above-named project,
for which the Global Environment Facility (GEF) approved a grant of US$4.5 million in October
1992. The Swiss Development Cooperation provided an additional US$3.9 million. The project
became effective in July 1993 and closed in December 1999, six months behind schedule. The
project was fully disbursed by December 1998.
The project's objective was to help the government of Bolivia ensure the protection of
representative samples of some of Bolivia's most diverse and threatened ecosystems. It would
help to convert some of Bolivias's "paper" parks into "real" ones. This would be accomplished.
In part, by strengthening the Government's institutional capacity to protect Bolivia's biodiversity.
The major project components include: (i) support for the organization, implementation and
follow-up of the National System of Protected Areas -SNAP; (ii) support to existing protected
areas and establishment of new priority protected areas; (iii) alternative management systems of
natural resources in buffer zones; (iv) monitoring and evaluation; and (v) administrative support
to the project coordinating unit. The project also aimed to leverage additional resources to finance
the National Protected Areas System (SNAP).
The objectives were consistent with the Bank's policies and country strategy and with the
development priorities of the country. The project contributed to more effective protection of
biodiversity by reducing poaching and illegal wood extraction and mining, and by closer
monitoring of gas and oil exploration inside protected areas. The National Direction for
Conservation of Biodiversity (DNCB) and its successor National Protected Areas Service
(SERNAP) established a highly transparent system of funds administration and is considered one
of the most credible and transparent public institutions in Bolivia. Outcome is rated moderately
satisfactory mainly because there where significant shortcomings in relation to the establishment
of a biodiversity monitoring system, the legal framework for the SNAP and the strengthening of
FONAMA as mechanism to insure the long term funding of SNAP. Nevertheless, significant
achievements were made. The project helped establish the SNAP and converted "paper" parks
into managed protected areas. The project addressed the sector and country needs and brought
about significant improvements to Bolivia's capacity to protect biodiversity at a relatively low
cost.
Sustainability is rated likely because, although long-term financing did not take place
through the Environmental Fund (FONAMA) as anticipated in the SAR, DNCB developed the
technical resilience, social support, and government and stakeholder ownership that helped
institutionalize the SNAP and attracted funds to continue operations after the first GEF grant was
exhausted. The follow-up GEF grant is helping set up a different trust fund.
Institutional development impact is rated substantial. Application of regulations has
dramatically improved across the SNAP, and good communication between parks and SERNAP
has contributed to improved coordination and management of the SNAP. Also, the project helped
institutionalize the SNAP in a broader sense by placing protected areas on the conceptual "map"
of other government agencies, private enterprises, and forest dwellers in such a way that they are
beginning to acknowledge and respect protected areas.
Bank performance, both in preparation and supervision, is rated satisfactory. Project
preparation included participation of civil society and focused on issues critical to the
strengthening of the SNAP. During supervision the Bank demonstrated flexibility to adjust the



x
project to new situations. Close supervision allowed the Bank to be an effective steward of the
project. Borrower performance is also rated satisfactory as the implementing agency had strong
ownership of the project. Continuity of vision and key staff at protected areas was critical for
gradual strengthening of DNCB.
The PPAR highlights three lessons from this project:
*  To ensure successful conservation it is necessary to build constituencies for
conservation, increase risks for violators, and ensure continuingfinancial support to
protected areas. This is a severe challenge for a national park authority, as the costs
of policing large tracts of remote land are large and the economic and political power
of violators are great. DNCB was able to meet this challenge by building NGO and
donor alliances in favor of protection and by gaining the support of resource-
dependent people in and around protected areas. It drew on that support to protect the
integrity of natural areas by increasing the risks to poachers and illicit loggers and
miners.
* The effective participation of local populations in park protection requires
implementing agencies with strong negotiation capacities to help local populations
reach agreement on rules of the game to access and manage resources, and with an
institutional willingness and capacity to assist local populations in meeting their
development needs. An important factor in the success of the Biodiversity
Conservation Project was that in the absence of other central government institutions,
park authorities assumed broad developmental roles, and assisted the local
communities, organized groups and municipalities to pool available resources and
obtain additional resources in support of a common agenda.
*  The Bank's stewardship role in politically complex projects require close supervision
and timely information on stakeholder., By refusing to grant no-objection letters in
regard to critical proposed appointments, the Bank helped prevent, in a timely and
appropriate way, the interference of partisan politics with project activities. This
contributed to the credibility and transparency of DNCB and strengthened its support
from local communities, NGOs and other donors.



INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
Overview
1.     The main objective of the Biodiversity Conservation Project (BBCP) was to help ensure
the protection of representative samples of some of Bolivia's most diverse and threatened
ecosystems. The project achieved most of its goals and surpassed some. It established or
improved management in 14 protected areas, 5 more than the appraisal anticipated; expanded by
50 percent the number of hectares under protection; and helped form a cadre of professionals
capable of addressing the technical, social, and political complexities of park management.
2.     The most important achievement for the sustainability of the project's benefits, however,
was the development of capacity in the National Directorate for Conservation of Biodiversity
(DNCB) to enlist political support for protected areas, which required the construction of
alliances with donors, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and community groups. With the
political support of these allies, and despite its weak legal standing, (because it was created by
Presidential Decree') DNCB and the National Protected Areas Service (SERNAP), DNCB's
institutional successor, won several court battles against powerful interests seeking to extract
resources from protected areas. These victories established precedents that have helped reduce
commercial encroachment on protected areas. In several instances, when the government tried to
appoint individuals to key positions in DNCB as political payoffs, opposition by donors and
NGOs was instrumental in preventing the appointments and for institutionalizing the concept
that only qualified individuals would be named to the positions. To contain pressures on protected
areas from local communities, DNCB used protected areas management committees2 and
management plans as instruments to reach agreements with local people on rules to govern
natural resources access and management. Closer relations with local communities required park
administrators to assist these communities in their search for alternative development
opportunities. Community involvement in park management has also contributed to transparency
and accountability and has helped improve park protection.
3.     Three aspects of the project were less successful: the development of a biodiversity
monitoring system, development of a strong legal foundation for the National System of
Protected Areas (SNAP), and the establishment of a national environmental fund to ensure long-
term financial sustainability. Three years after the project ended, however, most project
achievements have been sustained, largely owing to the human and institutional capacities
developed during the project and to the credibility of SERNAP with the donor community. In
November 2000, GEF approved a second grant to Bolivia for US$15 million. This was to address
the outstanding issues and improve the sustainability of SERNAP.
Country and Sector Context
4.     Bolivia is one of the few countries in Latin America with relatively large tracts of natural
habitat high in biodiversity and endemic species. Bolivia has more than 2,500 known species of
vertebrates and 18,000 vascular plants, making the country the world's eighth richest in
biodiversity, according to Conservation International. About 15 percent of the country's total land
area is in natural parks and protected areas. The main threats to Bolivia's natural resources are
' The term in Bolivia is Decreto Supremo
2 The protected areas management committees are composed of representatives of indigenous communities, NGOs,
local municipalities and SERNAP.



2
expansion of commercial agriculture, forestry, mining, and oil prospecting and extraction, which
together represent 27 percent of the GNP. From 1990 to 2000, deforestation in Bolivia was an
average of 1.3 percent per year, most of it caused by extractive activities and land conversion for
agriculture and pasture. Also, the govemment estimates that some 60,000 people live inside
protected areas and some 200,000 people live in surrounding areas. These are poor people who
customarily engage in forest buming in tropical and subtropical areas to expand the area under
agriculture and pasture, small mining operations, lumber extraction, and hunting for their
livelihood. Such pressures have become stronger during the late 1980s and the 1990s because of
population shifts caused by mine shutdowns in the highlands, the expansion of oil exploration in
the lowlands, and prolonged droughts in the Andean region.
5.     For more than a decade, the govemment of Bolivia has become increasingly aware of the
economic and strategic value of its natural resources, gradually adopting measures to prevent the
loss of biodiversity. In the early 1990s the govermment established, under the office of the
Presidency, the National Secretariat of the Environment (SENMA), responsible for formulating
and monitoring environmental policy, and the National Environmental Fund (FONAMA),
responsible for raising and administering funds for conservation. Similarly, in close consultation
with civil society, the govermnent of Bolivia adopted a forest action plan in 1989, an
environmental law that established the SNAP in 1992, and an environmental action plan in 1993.
At project appraisal, nearly 10 percent of the country's surface was under protection in 31 parks,
wildlife reserves, biological reserves, or other protected areas. However, only three National
Parks (Amboro, Noel Kempff and Estaci6n Biol6gica Beni) were under the administration of
NGOs or academic institutions, the rest were "paper" parks with little or no actual protection.
6.     From 1993 to 1997, the new administration made sustainability, citizen participation, and
decentralization key aspects of its economic development agenda. This decision created a very
favorable policy context for the project. Also, during this period, the government drafted
numerous laws and regulations that provided opportunities to address biodiversity protection in
forestry, mining, and land ownership.
Institutional Arrangements
7.     During appraisal responsibility for implementing the project was assigned to the
SENMA, and the National Environmental Fund (FONAMA) had responsibility for administering
it. Both agencies reported directly to the president. Nevertheless by the time the grant became
effective, in 1993, the newly inaugurated administration had eliminated SENMA and had
transferred its responsibilities for managing the SNAP to the National Directorate for
Conservation of Biodiversity (DNCB) under the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment (MDSMA). FONAMA was also placed under the MDSMA. This institutional
arrangement remained during most of the project until in 1998, the following administration
transformed DNCB into the National of Protected Areas Service (SERNAP) to manage the
SNAP, and created the Directorate of Biodiversity (DGB) to address biodiversity-related issues
outside of protected areas. SERNAP was given more autonomy within a restructured Ministry of
Sustainable Development and Planning (MDSP). FONAMA remained under the control of the
MDSP. Despite these institutional changes there was significant staff continuity between DNCB
and SERNAP.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RELEVANCE
The project addressed policy, legal, and institutional issues, including the need to build system
and local capacities, civil society participation, and investments for biodiversity protection. The



3
objectives were consistent with the Bank's policies and country strategy, and with the
development priorities of the host country. Project relevance is rated high.
8.     The project addressed important obstacles to biodiversity conservation specific to Bolivia
and supported the Bolivian government in strengthening and expanding the SNAP. The project
was also consistent with the Bank's overall country strategy seeking to assist Bolivia in
addressing its environmental problems by designing a coherent set of policies, regulations and
laws, and by strengthening the country's environmental institutions. The project's objective was
to help the government of Bolivia ensure the protection of representative samples of some of
Bolivia's most diverse and threatened ecosystems. In accordance with the Bank's 1991 Forestry
Strategy, the project appraisal gave considerable attention to the need for strengthening citizen
participation in the formulation of policies and regulations, and to the need to set aside land rich
in biodiversity for protection. It stressed the need to build human capacities, improve planning,
and direct investments in protected areas. In accordance with the Bank's policy on Indigenous
Peoples (OD 4.20), the project adopted an approach to biodiversity protection that included the
participation of indigenous communities and institutions. The appraisal also proposed to ensure
the financial sustainability of the SNAP through the establishment of a trust fund. The project
components include: (i) support for the organization, implementation and follow-up of the
National System of Protected Areas -SNAP; (ii) support to existing protected areas and
establishment of new priority protected areas; (iii) alternative management systems of natural
resources in buffer zones; (iv) monitoring and evaluation; and (v) administrative support to the
project coordinating unit. The project also aimed to leverage additional resources to finance the
SNAP.
EFFICACY
The project contributed to more effective protection of biodiversity by reducing poaching and
illegal wood extraction and mining, and by closer monitoring of gas and oil exploration inside
protected areas. DNCB, and its successor SERNAP, established a highly transparent system of
funds administration and are regarded among the most credible and transparent public
institutions in Bolivia. Efficacy is rated substantial.
Implementation of the SNAP and Support to Protected Areas
9.     The project had some important successes. Foremost among them, was the creation of
five new parks, three more than called for in the appraisal document. In consequence, the land
under protection in Bolivia grew from 10 percent of the national territory in 1993 to close to 15
percent in 1999. Second, the project established or improved management capacities in 16 parks
and protected areas, 5 more than specified at appraisal. While the quality of park management
varies across the system, all parks supported by the project now have resident directors and
trained guards that regularly patrol parklands. This accomplishment is particularly notable
considering that 13 of those protected areas either did not exist or lacked any protection before
the project, and that many are located in remote areas. Finally, DNCB's central office developed
the capacity to supervise and coordinate activities in protected areas and to wage political and
court battles to defend the integrity of parks from violators.
10.    The material contributions of the project included financing salaries of park guards and
providing vehicles and radio communication systems. The project equipped and helped train 230
guards and 31 park directors and technicians-almost all of DNCB's staff-on a variety of topics
such as management, negotiations, and legal issues. The project introduced the use of annual
operational plans, standards for hiring staff, administration procedures, and procedures for park



4
management and protection, and it financed the formulation of five park management plans.
Communication between the central office and protected areas was improved through the
provision of a communications network consisting of 54 computers reaching 13 protected areas.
The project also enabled the central office to provide support services needed and valued by staff
in protected areas, such as in training and legal services.
11.    FONAMA was the source of most of the recurrent implementation problems. The agency
quickly became politicized and throughout most of the project period was poorly managed (Box
1). Despite the failure to strengthen FONAMA's fund raising and administrative capacities,
DNCB has been able to procure the funds needed to finance the essential activities in 14
protected areas (see paragraph 27). In the last year of the project, 1998, the project faced a
predictable but not anticipated shortage of funds. This resulted in a dramatic reduction of staff in
an overgrown central office and elimination of some activities. No staff cuts were made among
park directors and wardens. Except for the biodiversity monitoring system and training, most
other critical activities continued, however.
12.    Another SAR promise not delivered by the project is the establishment of a strong legal
foundation for the SNAP. Currently SERNAP operates under a presidential decree, which is a
weak legal basis for the SNAP given that other ministries (such as Mining and Energy and
Agriculture) have older regulations that conflict with the regulations of SERNAP. DNCB did
include the SNAP in the draft of the biodiversity protection component of the Biodiversity Law,
but the law became too controversial and stalled. It addressed too many issues that could not
easily be agreed upon in the Bolivian Congress, including biodiversity property rights and genetic
regulation.
Box 1. Policies and Politics: the Decline of FONAMA
The government of Bolivia created FONAMA in the early 1990s as an independent entity overseen by the
Office of the President. The trust fund was to take donor funds for conservation and distribute them to
government agencies, NGOs, universities, and other organizations and was structured in a way that allowed
donors to track and monitor their own funds. Steering committees reviewed potential grants with the
participation of NGOs, government, universities, and donors. FONAMA was the first pluralistic Environmental
Fund in Latin America. For several years it was used as a model for the creation of other funds. When the
government changed in 1993, however, the new administration, though it included sustainable development in
its policy agenda, was not interested in channeling funds to NGOs to carry out small projects. Its agenda
consisted of much larger institutional, legal, and policy reforms, which rendered FONAMA's piecemeal
approach irrelevant. FONAMA, now expected to finance the priorities of the new administration, was placed
under the newly created Ministry of Sustainable Development and Environment and lost its independent status.
Expectations of large donations encouraged political parties to compete for control of FONAMA resulting in
frequent changes of director, growing inefficiency, and reduced transparency, which led to diminishing donor
support. By 1998, FONAMA had gone from the idea of a model pluralistic funding instrumentto an ineffective
project administrator, a job it was not set up to do.
Citizen Participation and Alternative Management System of Natural Resources in Buffer
Zones
13.    Bolivia was the first country in Latin America to adopt a far-reaching law of popular
participation in the early 1990s. Not surprisingly, then, citizen participation cut across the
components of the BBCP. At the national level, the project supported consultations and seminars
with civil society in the formulation of the proposal for the Biodiversity Law as well as for the
Presidential Decrees and Ministerial Resolutions DNCB helped to develop. At the local level, the



5
project supported two innovative tools to involve civil society in parks and buffer zones
management, co-administration and park management committees.
14.    Co-administration. DNCB, with project support, established seven co-administration
contracts (four with NGOs, two with indigenous groups, and one with an academic institution).
The results of this experiment highlighted the strengths and weaknesses of such arrangements.
The main strengths are more transparency in park management and autonomy from party politics.
There are three important weaknesses, however. First, there is the danger that park management
will collapse when funds become scarce. Second, conflicts can arise between the development
and protection goals of NGOs that may make them reluctant to enforce park protection for fear of
opposition by local populations. Third, nongovemmental employees lack the legal authority to
enforce the law, detain poachers, gather criminal evidence, and carry weapons. Co-administration
contracts performed better in areas where there were not too many pressures on the parks and
when partners had a long record in environmental management and a strong capacity to raise
funds. Also, co-administration arrangements with indigenous groups have a set of specific
challenges that can only be resolved over time (Box 2).
Box 2. The Co-administration Process
Park co-administration arrangements with indigenous groups are particularly interesting and illustrate the strong
need for a gradual approach to devolution and local capacity building. The Kaa Iyaa National Park was created
by the initiative of the Capitania del Alto y Bajo Isoso (CABI), which represents the Guarani people that inhabit
the park's buffer zone. Interested in stopping the expansion of large agricultural operations into their ancestral
lands, the Guarani, with the support of international NGOs, promoted the creation of the park. Once created, the
CABI negotiated the co-administration agreement with DNCB, which agreed to hire all guards from local
Guarani communities. While the park director and the head of its scientific program are not Guarani, park
affairs are almost entirely managed by the CABI. The CABI has been key when confronting powerful interests
affecting the park. In November of 1997, when the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline was being built, the park guards,
under the direction of the CABI, confiscated the equipment of the construction company because the company
had not obtained a permit from DNCB. The incident escalated and the military moved in to support the
construction company, making newspaper headlines. The CABI stood its ground, with DNCB's support, and
eventually negotiated the creation of a special trust fund for environmental protection, funded with one million
dollars provided by PETROBRAZ, the pipeline contractor. This trust fund has financed a large part ofthe costs
of park management. The CABI would like to see all funds financing the park deposited in the trUst fund and to
have full administration of all park operations. They also would like to see a Guarani Indian appointed park
director. But the process of devolution will have to be slow. First, the CABI must strengthen its administrative
capacities, improve staff management practices, and improve its mechanisms of accountability and
transparency.
15.    Protected Areas Management Committees. The project financed the formation and
strengthening of 12 protected areas management committees that included the participation of
people living in the parks or in surrounding areas. Project support included training of 65
committee members and assisting in the creation of committee regulations. Management
committees meet regularly (normally every two or three months) to review the implementation of
the protected areas' annual operational plan and monitor park management. The committees also
participate in the selection of park guards, who are generally from the local communities, and
help ensure transparency of administration and decision-making.
16.    Management committees are the main instrument DNCB used to obtain local support for
park protection. Through the committees, park administrators developed local agreements and
support for a set of rules for resource use to make protection possible. In some parks, such as Ulla
Ulla and Sajama, where local people have come to value the economic potential of wildlife and



6
ecotourism, communities themselves identify and sanction local violators. Park wardens rarely
prosecuted local violators of park laws. Instead, they confiscated hunting weapons used by
poachers and give them warnings. This allowed wardens to dissuade poachers while keeping
good relations with local people. When communities are well-organized, wardens generally
coordinated enforcement with local authorities and the management committees. Parks with
strong management committees, such as Sajama, Ulla Ulla, and Madidi, have seen the largest
reductions in poaching, illegal wood extraction, and agricultural burning. Ownership of the
conservation ethic by local communities is so strong that they are effectively functioning as de
facto park wardens.
17.    Local people also use management committees to address some of their other needs. In
remote protected areas like Apolobamba, Madidi, Sajama, and Noel Kempff, the protected areas'
administration is the only permanent national government presence. Hence, the local management
committee becomes an important contact with other development agencies. The committees also
function as forums within which local stakeholders can negotiate disputes on access and use of
resources in or around the park. In some areas the committees have brought together
communities, local organizations, and municipalities to pool resources and undertake
development activities that would not had been possible otherwise. Communities in and around
the park at Sajama, for example, have used management committees to resolve land disputes and
disputes over the opportunities provided by ecotourism and have agreed on a general set of rules
for resource management. In Apolobamba, management committee meetings are the main means
by which the park's annual operational plans are coordinated with the annual plans of the
municipalities to ensure a consistent regional development strategy.
18.    Involving local communities in national park affairs and the park's promise of
development benefits has helped increase their interest in protecting the park. In some parks
where local people continue to hunt for household consumption, communities have established
rules limiting the areas where hunting is allowed. In the Kaa Iya, for example, hunting has been
restricted to the park buffer zone areas, and is prohibited in the wetlands where animal diversity is
high. In Madidi, local communities interested in promoting ecotourism, have banned hunting in
areas known to have high animal populations and diversity. Building on the foundations that the
project helped set in place, nearly everywhere, increased local interest in protecting natural
resources has generated local support for SERNAP when powerful outside interests threaten the
integrity of a park. Local communities also have been important allies in confrontations between
SERNAP and powerful interests that have encroached upon parks (see Box 3).
Box 3. Local Alliances for Protection
In most of the instances, when SERNAP took powerful interests to court for encroaching on protected areas, the
mobilization of local communities provided media coverage and political support. In August 2000, for example,
SERNAP sued a timber company to stop wood extraction from Pilon Lajas. Communitiesliving in the protected
area staged a large meeting in support of SEMARNAP in the city of Rurrenabaque, and to oppose the timber
company. This action by local communities was instrumental in counteracting the pressures that the timber
company had placed on the government to the point that, a few months later, the company pulled out of the
area.. Other illegal logging operations left the area when the court verdict was made public. Also, in 1999,
SERNAP opposed a permit for oil prospecting in Amboro by the Ministry of Energy and Mines.. But local
opposition to prospecting was high, and local communities blocked access to the park, eventually forcing the
company to relinquish its plans for oil exploration in the park.



7
Monitoring and Information
19.   The biodiversity monitoring system proposed at appraisal was a simple clearinghouse
that would seek to incorporate existing expertise and experience in Bolivia. The system actually
put in place, however, was complex and expensive and it was not maintained after the GEF grant
ended inl998. This monitoring system had three main problems. First, it was too ambitious in
aiming to monitor project activities, biodiversity in protected areas, compliance with international
conventions and agreements signed by Bolivia, and private and state economic activities in or
around protected areas, including wood extraction, mining, petroleum, gas, and tourism. Second,
the monitoring system was designed by a group of consultants with little consultation within the
park system or among other relevant agencies. As a result, the system could not communicate
with monitoring systems that were being developed for Amboro and Noel Kempff with the
support of other donors, nor could it communicate well with biodiversity data banks previously
developed by universities or research institutions. Third, importing and exporting information to
other systems was difficult because the consultants developed their own software for the system
instead of selecting among the software commonly used for this purpose. By September 1998,
when an IUCN team evaluated the project, the monitoring system was no longer operating3 (Only
two components of the system remain operational: the administrative monitoring module that
tracks expenses for the SNAP and the module that monitors productive activities in protected
areas. The latter are financed by corporations and other enterprises as part of the environmental
management plan that SERNAP requires before it grants permit to carry out such activities.
Guards continue to gather information, but its quality is unreliable as many guards have not been
trained in the system.
EFFICIENCY
The project helped improve protection on more than 10 million hectares of land that is very rich
in biodiversity. Efficiency is rated substantiaL
20.    The US$4.5 million provided by GEF, with the US$3.9 million, contributed by the co-
financer, the Swiss Development Cooperation, provided basic funding for the establishment and
operation of the SNAP for 5 years. This included staffing 14 protected areas, equipping and
training staff at all levels, and strengthening DNCB's capacities as a manager and as an advocate
for the SNAP with in the government. Some aspects of the project could have been more
efficient. First, the biodiversity monitoring system was more costly than necessary, as it could
have drawn more on existing expertise and institutional capacities in Bolivia and done more to
incorporate ongoing experience in the parks of Amboro and Noel Kempff. Also, the use of
standard software would have made the system less expensive to operate and maintain. Second,
the Biodiversity Law would have faced less opposition had it left aside politically complex
problems such as biodiversity property rights and genetic regulation; this might have helped get
the law passed. Third, park management plans might have been developed more quickly and
been more realistic had DNCB established better guidelines, tested its methodology, and
developed local capacity before attempting to formulate the plans simultaneously in all parks.
OUTCOME
The project clearly helped establish the SNAP and converted "paper parks " into managed
protected areas, although the quality of management varies throughout the park system. The
3. Suarez de Freitas et aL Bolivia Biodiversity Conservation Project, Grant agreement of the Global Environmental
Trust Fund (GET Grant No. 28620-BO). Bolivia, La Paz; September 1999).



8
project addressed the sector and country needs and brought about significant improvements to
Bolivia's capacities to protect biodiversity at a relatively low cost. Outcome is rated moderately
satisfactory.
21.    The project is rated moderately satisfactory mainly because three of the project
components were not successful. These are the establishment of a biodiversity monitoring system,
a strong legal foundation for the SNAP and the strengthening of FONAMA as a mechanism to
insure the long term funding of SNAP. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that significant
achievements were made. The project clearly helped establish the SNAP and converted "paper"
parks into managed protected areas. In most protected areas supported by the project well-trained
guards regularly patrol the parks and management committees meet to regularly deliberate and
monitor park activities. Similarly, through the committees and by promoting alternative economic
activities, DNCB and subsequently SERNAP have been expanding local support for parks, and
political support against outside threats. Although the monitoring system cannot provide statistics
for the impacts of the BBCP, field observations and reports from park rangers indicate that
poaching and illegal wood extraction have diminished, animals thought extinct in some protected
areas are being sighted again, and petroleum and gas companies are improving their
environmental practices. Press coverage on SERNAP's legal victories resulted in the withdrawal
of large timber mining companies from most protected areas. The vicufia, once threatened with
extinction, is an important success story: the population of vicufia has doubled, from about 17,000
in 1996 to 33,800 in 1998. Much of this recovery occurred in the protected areas of Apolobamba
and Sajama.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The major accomplishment of the project is that it helped turn "paper" parks into "real " parks.
Teams ofpark wardens have a constant presence in 16 parks and protected areas, patrolling
them regularly and interacting daily with local communities. Application of regulations has
dramatically improved across the SNAP, and good communication between parks and DNCB
contributed to better coordination and management of the SNAP. Also, the project helped
institutionalize the SNAP in a broader sense by placingprotected areas in the conceptual "map"
of other government agencies, private enterprises, andforest dwellers in such a way that they are
beginning to acknowledge and respect protected areas. Institutional development impact is rated
substantial.
22.    At the end of the project, Bolivia had a functioning National System of Protected Areas,
although the ability to address threats to biodiversity varied greatly across the system depending
on the nature, complexity, and intensity of the local threat. In 1998, when the IUCN team
evaluated the project, it rated park management good in 13 parks or reserves that had no or
incipient management before the project. The report also notes that park management was
"consolidated" in Amboro, Noel Kempff, and Estaci6n Biol6gica Beni, the three parks with
management before the project. Accomplishments were not just confined to local park
management and other organizational aspects of DNCB discussed above. DNCB also made
advances in building the regulatory framework for the SNAP. During the life of the project,
DNCB's and SERNAP's 's legal team developed 10 Presidential Decrees and 15 Ministerial
Resolutions. Nevertheless, Congress did not pass the Biodiversity Law. To date, SERNAP
continues to operate on the basis of a Presidential Decree, which is a disadvantage when
SERNAP has to defend protected areas from ministries such as Mining and Energy or Agriculture
that have as their legal mandate a law passed by Congress. To correct this situation SERNAP is
currently negotiating with the Bolivian Congress a law that focuses on the SNAP. The law has
been approved in broad terms by Congress, but legislative details and revisions are still
outstanding and will have to be taken up again during the 2002 - 2003 terrn.23  Despite the lack



9
of a law, DNCB made significant achievements in institutionalizing the SNAP across the
government; DNCB's and SERNAP's victories, press coverage, and strong alliances now make
other ministries carefully consider SNAP's regulations when issuing permits for wood extraction,
mining, and oil and gas exploration in protected areas. An important factor in these
accomplishments was managerial stability: the DNCB had only two directors during most of the
project, despite the many institutional changes that were made. Both directors shared a similar
vision for the SNAP, were highly respected conservationists in Bolivia and were skillful at
mobilizing political support for the SNAP in the government, civil society, and the donor
community.
24.    The only institutional development shortcoming of the project was related to FONAMA.
As indicated in paragraph 11, FONAMA quickly became politicized and gradually lost
credibility. Part of the problem is that the GOB under the 1993-1997 administration did not
develop ownership of FONAMA. The GOB perceived FONAMA as a donor's creation that had
little relevance to the policy priorities of the new administration (Box 1). Despite this
shortcoming, the credibility developed by DNCB resulted in another initiative for long term
funding for the SNAP that has been much more successful and is being funded by the GEF
follow-up grant (see paragraph 27).
SUSTAINABILITY
DNCB developed the technical resilience, social support, and government and stakeholder
ownership that helped institutionalize the SNAP and attract enough funds to continue essential
operations after the first GEF grant was exhausted. On this basis sustainability is ranked likely.
25.    Over the life of the project and beyond, DNCB, and subsequently SERNAP
demonstrated significant resilience under political, social, and financial pressures. The sources of
SERNAP's resilience are its reputation as a well-managed and transparent institution and the
alliances that it has established with NGOs, local communities, and donors. Another important
strength has been its capacity to train and retain qualified staff. Even though it lost some staff
when project funds ended in 1998, most staff cuts were made at the central office, conserving the
more critical staff in protected areas. These cuts helped streamline operations and resulted in
more realistic budgetary requirements to carry out essential work.
26.    While the project did not mobilize donor support through FONAMA it did by other
means. DNCB's good reputation allowed it to attract enough funds to continue essential
operations for three years after the first GEF grant ran out and before the second GEF grant began
in 2001. Long-term financial sustainability through FONAMA was not achieved as originally
planned, largely because of FONAMA's lack of transparency and inefficiency and owing to
political factors (see Box 1). Confident of SERNAP strengths, donors have been willing to
support the Foundation for the Development of the National System of Protected Areas
(FUNDESNAP). This non-profit, private foundation is more autonomous than FONAMA and has
been structured to be more accountable and transparent. FUNDESNAP is expected to raise
US$30 million during the five years of the follow-on project. By January 2002, only nine months
after the project began, seven donors had pledged US$14 million. One of them is GEF, which
will support FUNDESNAP with US$5 million as part of the follow-on project. Also, during the
follow-up grant SERNAP has begun to put in place a cost recovery system based on park
entrance fees. According to this system 25 percent of the funds obtained from entrance fees will
be dedicated to community development activities to benefit the populations living around the
parks.



10
BANK PERFORMANCE
Project preparation included participation of civil society andfocused on afew issues critical to
the strengthening of the SNAP. During supervision the Bank demonstratedflexibility to adjust the
project to new situations. Close supervision allowed the Bank to be an effective steward of the
project. Bank supervision both in preparation and supervision is rated satisfactory.
Quality at Entry
27.    The strengths of project design included the harmonization of laws and regulations
affecting protected areas; its emphasis on the need to strengthen citizen participation in the
formulation of policies and regulations and in the management of protected areas; and its
emphasis on the need to strengthen management capacities across the SNAP. The project
appraisal stressed the need to strengthen skills, improve planning and management, and increase
investments in protected areas. The appraisal also addressed the need for long-term financial
sustainability through the creation of an environmental fund and proposed a study regarding a
revenue-generation system for protected areas.
28.    The project design had three weaknesses. First, the time required to establish and develop
the SNAP was greatly underestimated. Second, it failed to anticipate and budget for costs
incurred by local people while attending management committee meetings. People from remote
villages sometimes had to travel three or four days to attend to management committee meetings,
paying for their travel and subsistence. These costs contributed to participation fatigue and were
an impediment for regular participation by many of the poorer and more remote communities.
Third, it greatly underestimated the complexities associated with legal reform. Also, while the
project budgeted funds to pay for the technical aspects related to the development of the various
drafts of the Biodiversity Law, it failed to budget for the cost to promote drafts in Congress and
other government agencies. More outreach and joint activities with Congress could have assured
a sooner and more feasible legal proposal and a stronger legal status for the SNAP.
Supervision
29.    The Bank showed considerable flexibility and willingness to assist the implementing
agency's search for solutions to problems and in suggesting approaches to improve project
achievements. An important factor in the Bank's supervision performance was that the project
had the same task manager throughout. This allowed the task manager to become very
knowledgeable about the project. It also created frank and open communication with the
implementing agency. These factors allowed the task manager to act in a timely fashion, plan
supervision visits that responded to the needs of the project, and follow-up on key project
developments. Supervision reports by the task manager showed frequent comments on the
problem of FONAMA.
30.   Intimate knowledge of the players and context of the project allowed the Bank to use the
means at its disposal to protect the integrity of the project and prevent the politicization of
DNCB. In 1997, with the advent of the new administration, the Bank refused twice to give its no-
objection to an appointment for the director of DNCB since the appointee did not meet the
qualifications. Had the Bank given its no-objection to this appointment, DNCB likely would have
fallen prey to party politics, lost its credibility, and failed to raise the funds it needed to continue
operations when the GEF grant funds were exhausted. The message the Bank sent to the new
administration was strongly supported by other donors and many NGOs in Bolivia. Although
sustainable development and citizen participation were not as prominent in the political agenda of



11
the new administration, political interference with DNCB, and subsequently with SERNAP, has
remained relatively low . Building on this precedent the last director of SERNAP was selected in
2001, through a competitive and transparent process with the participation of NGOs and donors.
This is highly unusual for Bolivia. Also, the Bank used innovative ways to strengthen DNCB
capacities by including DNCB's director as part of supervision teams for other similar projects.
This helped DNCB learn from the lessons of other countries. -
31.    Two areas in which the Bank could have provided better guidance to the implementing
agency are the design of the biodiversity monitoring system and the development of protected
area management plans. The elaboration of management plans lacked sufficient technical
assistance, took too long to complete, tended to be to descriptive and have action guidelines that
were too broad.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The implementing agency had strong ownership of the project. Continuity of vision and key staff
at protected areas were criticalfor gradual strengthening of DNCB. Borrower performance is
rated satisfactory.
32.    Despite the institutional changes that took place throughout the project the same team
remained in charge of the project during the first five years of implementation (from 1993 to
1997). Moreover, the leader of this team was well connected with the administration and was
very effective at getting the government's support for the project. Except for the personnel
reduction in the central office in 1998, there was little turnover in key staff, particularly among
directors of protected areas. Also, when a change in management took place in 1998 this change
was not accompanied by major shifts in vision. After the Bank refused to give its no-objection to
the first appointee of the new administration, the government appointed a capable, respected, and
strong leader as director of DNCB who, overcoming party politics, collaborated closely with the
outgoing director of the DNCB, thus ensuring project continuity. At the local level, low turnover
among park directors has permitted the gradual development of a cadre of well-trained and
experienced staff capable of addressing the complex political issues that characterize protected
areas. With the exception of a lapse in 1998 when FONAMA staff were fired and not replaced for
several months, project disbursements to area personnel were efficient, and a decentralized
administration capacity was developed. An important management deficiency being addressed
during the second GEF project is the lack of a long-term strategy for the SNAP.
LESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE DRECTIONS
33.    To ensure successful conservation it is necessary to build constituencies for conservation,
increase risks for violators, and ensure continuingfinancial support to protected areas. This is a
severe challenge for a national park authority, as the costs of policing large tracts of remote land
are large and the economic and political power of outside violators are great. DNCB was able to
meet this challenge by building NGO and donor alliances in favor of protection and by gaining
the support of resource-dependent people in and around protected areas. It drew on that support to
protect the integrity of natural areas by increasing the risks to poachers and illicit loggers and
miners. This experience also shows that project achievements can be sustained even in the
absence of a fund to guarantee long term availability of resources. The components underpinning
the sustainability of the BBCP were community, NGO, and donor support, which were made
possible by credibility and transparency. Key in this respect was stakeholder participation, a
disposition to work with resource-dependent populations in the search for alternative economic
opportunities and good communication with multiple donors.



12
34.    The effective participation of local populations in park protection requires implementing
agencies with strong negotiation capacities to help local populations reach agreement on rules of
the game to access and manage resources, and with an institutional willingness and capacity to
assist local populations in meeting their development needs. An important element of success of
the BBCP is that in the absence of other central government institutions, park authorities assumed
broad development roles, and assisted the local communities, organized groups and
municipalities to pool available resources and obtain additional resources in support of a common
agenda.
35.    The Bank's stewardship role in politically complex projects require close supervision
and timely information on stakeholder. In this project the Bank familiar with key project issues,
actors, and the country context, by refusing to grant no-objection letters, prevented in a timely
and appropriate way, the interference of partisan politics with project activities. This contributed
to the credibility and transparency of DNCB and strengthened DNCB's support from local
communities, NGOs and other donors.



13                                    Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
estimate     current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                         8.35            8.31                99
Loan amount                                 4,5             4.39                98
Co financing                                8.35            8.31                99
Cancellation                                 0               0                   0
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (us$ million)
FY92    FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96    FY97   FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate              2.00    3.80   6.00    9.00   12.00   15.00  16.50   16.50
Revised Estimate                0.83    1.76   3.22    4.71    7.15   9.90   13.90   16.50
Actual                          0.83    1.76   3.23    4.73    7.68   10.44  13.06   14.58
Actual as % of estimate         41.5    46.3   53.7    52.3    64.0   69.6    79.2   88.4
Actual as % of revised estimate  41.5   46.3   53.7    52.3    64.0   69.6    79.2   88.4
Date of final disbursement:   April 22,1999
Project Dates
Original                      Actual
Appraisal                                                             03/1992
Board approval                                                       12/21/1992
Effectiveness                                                        07/13/1993
Closing date                           02/25/1995                    12/31/1998









Report No.:        24604
Type:     PPAR



