Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22380
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28620; TF-28629)
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.5 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
BOLIVIA
FOR A
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT (GEF)
06/28/2001
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1998)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
US$ 1.00 = Bs. 5.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy           MDSP*       Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Planning
DGB*      Directorate of Biodiversity           MMARNF  Ministry of Enviromnent, Natural Resources and
Forestry
DNAPVS  National Directorate of Protected Areas    NP       National Park
and Wildlife (foreseen in SAR)
DNCB*   National Directorate of Protected Areas    PA       Protected Area
DS        Supreme Decree                        NGO         Non Governmental Organization
ETAp      Environmental Technical Assistance    PMU         Project Management Unit
Project
FONAMA National Environmental Foundation         PPF        Project Preparation Fund
FY        Fiscal Year                            SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
GEF       Global Environment Facility           SDC         Swiss Development Corporation
GET       Global Environment Trust Fund Grant    SDR        Special Drawing Rights
Agreement
GOB       Government of Bolivia                 NSPA        National System of Protected Areas
ICR       Implementation Completion Report       SENMA*   National Secretary of Environment
IDA       International Development Association  SNRNMA* National Secretariat of Natural Resources and
Environment
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank        SSNR       Subsecretary of National Resources
INRA      National Institute of Agrarian Reform  SWF        Swiss Francs
JGF       Japanese Grant Facility               UICN        Intemational Union for the Conservation of
Nature
LIDEMA   Environmental Defense League           WB          World Bank
MDSMA* Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment
*
*      SENMA was replaced with the DNCB/MDSMA in 1993.
*      The DNCB, within the MDSMA, was the executing agent until August 1997, when the names were changed to DGB and MDSP
rspectively.
The MDSP was changed to the MMARNF in uly 1998
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Elizabeth Monosowski



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
Biodiversity Conservation Project (GEF)
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performiance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Alfecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                      12
8. Lessons L.earned                                                                   14
9. Partner Comments                                                                   15
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Perf ormance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  18
Annex 3. EconomiLc Costs and Benefits                                                 19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  20
Annex 5. Ratings ifor Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                     22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 23
MAP # 23957R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006108                                        Project Name: Biodiversity Conservation Project
(GEF)
Team Leader: Elizabeth Monosowski                          TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Biodiversity Conservation Project (GEF)         L/C/TF Number: TF-28620; TF-28629
CountryIDepartment: BOLIVIA                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/10/1992                               Effective:                     07/13/1993
Appraisal:  09/21/1992                                MTR:
Approval:  12/10/1992                               Closing:                     12/31/1998
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF BOLIVIAINAT ENVIRONMENT FUND
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti
Country Manager:     Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:       Teresa Serra
Team Leader at ICR:   Elizabeth Monosowski                      Cesar Plaza
ICR Primary Author:   Richard Huber
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The major project objective was to consolidate six protected areas and to establish two new ones.
It included support to the Directorate of Protected Areas (DGB), training of protected area
personnel, development of an information system, definition of boundaries and development of a
warden system. Financial administration was the responsibility of the National Environment Fund
(FONAMA). Sustainability was to result from activities related to institutional strengthening,
staff training, development of management plans, establishment of information systems,
environmental education and financing of infrastructure logistic support. In addition, the project
included the establishment of a trust fund to cover operational expenditures.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the Project was to help ensure protection of representative areas of sonme of
Bolivia's most endangered and protected ecosystems, via an integrated approach involving
indigenous communities, non governmental organizations (NGOs), regional and central
government institutions.
The key project objectives of establishing two new protected areas, forming an integrated system
of protected areas, training and staffing central and protected area personnel and involving local
commtunities in decision making and management, were generally met and their scope often
exceeded.
The project did not succeed in establishing a fiduciary fund of a magnitude sufficient to finance
annual operating costs of the NSPA (approximately US$200,000 per protected area). This is also
addressed by the follow-up project.
3.3 Original Components:
The major components were:
(i)  support for the organization, implementation, and follow up of a National System of
Protected Areas (NSPA);
(ii)  support to six existing protected areas and the establishment of two new areas;
(iii) alternative management of natural resources in buffer zones; and
(iv) administrative support to the project coordination unit in the National Environment
Foundation (FONAMA).
3.4 Revised Components:
The project succeeded in establishing a viable National System of Protected Areas; in attracting
other donors (USA, Holland, Switzerland, Canada, Britain, Germany) to support the SNAP; and
building a constituency for the NSPA among the local communities.
A viable NSPA: The project managed to establish a core system composed of: (i) legally defined
parks in place with a reasonable infrastructure and logistic support to enhance their protection; (ii)
several areas (Noel Kempf, Chaco) in place with capable non-government staff and funding
raised on their own initiative; (iii) a well equipped central administration system with a small core
-2-



of trained professionals; (iv)trained field personnel supported by equipment and vehicles.
Building donor support: The future of the NSPA is linked to the confidence of potential donors
in the integrity and transparency of the system and the level of support from the GOB. Both
began to improve by mid- 1998, with donor commitments representing about US$30 m spread out
over 10 years or more.
Building a constituency among local communities: The acceptance and support of communities
for the co-management of the protected area depended on the extent communities participated in
the planning, management, and economic benefits of an area. The overall effect of the NSPA on
regional communities varied throughout the system. It depended in part on ownership, perceived
and actual benefits, and participation. In areas owned entirely by communities, their response
varied from mild acceptance (Sajama), through positive (Ulla Ulla) to very positive (Chaco). The
differences seem clearly related to the benefits local communities have realized to date. Sajama
has received minimal benefits: park infrastructure, negligible entrance fee, and a few local guard
positions. Ulla Ulla has been the recipient of local guards, more protection against theft of
livestock, and livestock management assistance. Chaco has received most of the preceding, plus
management and property rights to the areas involved. The indigenous communities involved
were empowered to a considerable degree by the creation of the area.
Where communities are numerous and mainly scattered around the edge of the Protected Areas
(Ambor6 Park, Carrasco) conflict for resource use within the park has been high. Additionally,
because communities have not realized the benefits they anticipated, acceptance of the protected
areas concept has been tenuous at best.
In some Protected Areas there are only a few remote communities scattered around the
perimeters. Community opinion and reaction in these areas fell within the following three
categories:
(i)   In Noel Kempf and Beni Biological Station demand on resource use within the Protected
Areas is minimal, and there are no serious conflicts. There is a sense of frustration at not being
more fully involved in the perceived tourist benefits, which to date are largely theoretical;
(ii)    Madidi and Pilon Lajas communities are more affected in that they have long been
somewhat depending upon resource extraction from within the areas. There are serious conflicts
between protection, development (road, access, electricity), and resource extraction. At present
the areas are so large and inaccessible that conflicts between user groups are restricted to the
periphery. Ecotourism is increasing rapidly in these areas and it is anticipated that these benefits
will gradually overshadow resource extraction activities. There are a few bi-lateral donor projects
assisting ecotourism development;
(iii)  Eduardo Avaroa remains somewhat distinct. It has a single large community with a well
developed, private sector tourist base, which operates in an almost totally unregulated fashion
within the protected area. While the community benefits from the area being protected, the
mechanism to control tourism effectively, and to share the substantial tourist revenues between
MDSMA and the few isolated communities within the area remains to be worked out. This has
led to frustration by small communities within the area, and some conflict with private operators
in Uyuni, the single large community that dominates the ecotourism business.
- 3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
N/A
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
The following are the main achievements of the project:
(a) A National Directorate of Biodiversity Conservation (DNCB) was formed in 1993. The
National System of Protected Areas (NSPA) was consolidated. The DNCB and eight protected
areas were staffed with competent professionals, most of whom received training under the
project;
(b) A Biodiversity and Parks Management Information was developed. Long term management
plans were finalized for five areas, and four more are in final stages of completion;
(c)  Two new protected areas (5.3 million hectares), Chaco and Madidi, were established and
staffed;
(d) Administrative Agreements were signed with nongovernmental organizations for the
management of selected protected areas. Thus, three areas were placed under local NGO
management, one under the responsibility of an indigenous group, while another was placed under
the National Academy of Science. Plans are in place to devolve management responsibility or
additional areas to other decentralized units on an ongoing basis;
(e)   The geographical boundaries of eight areas were agreed upon and legally defined. An
agreement was reached with the Land Commission to define one additional area per year;
(f)  One hundred and sixty park wardens and thirteen area directors were trained, equipped and
assigned to twelve protected areas by the end of the project; and
(g)  The following policies and regulations were developed with project funds: (i) policy and
procedures regarding community involvement in decision making on issues relating to the parks;
(ii) specifications for buildings and infrastructure for protected areas (PA's); (iii) hiring and
promotion guidelines for PA staff, (iv) guidelines and procedures for financial management; (v)
policies on genetic resources and wildlife; and (vi) classification of protected areas.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Specific activities included:
(i)  institutional support to the National Directorate of Biodiversity Conservation (DGB) in the
Subsecretary of Natural Resources (SSNR). A National Directorate of Biodiversity Conservation
(DNCB) was organized under the National Subsecretariat of Natural Resources of the MDSMA.
The DNCB included the following directorates: (i) protected areas; (ii) wildlife; and (iii) genetic
resources. In mid 1997, the name of the NDCB was changed to General Directorate of
Biodiversity (DGB) and it was placed under the umbrella of the Viceministry of Natural
Resources. For the most of the execution period the heads of the DGB were first rate
professionals and for the most part the it was staffed with competent professionals in the field and
at headquarters, and it was adequately equipped with office and field equipment, materials,
- 4 -



computers and vehicles. In late 1997, the administration of the NSPA was assigned to a newly
created National Park Service (SERNAP). Planning, policy, wildlife and genetics remained with
DGB;
(ii)  development of an infornation system. An information system was developed which
contained: (i) a photographic library on protected areas (600+ slides and photos); (ii) video
cassettes (25+) for promoting and visitor information; (iii) over 3000 newspaper and magazine
articles; and (iv) over 2000 articles and texts and more than 160 maps. The material has been
carefully catalogued using an ISIS format and is currently managed by SERNAP;
(iii) consolidation of the SNAP via the development and implementation of management plans
and defining boundaries. At the end of the project fourteen areas were functioning under the
guidelines of Annual Operating Plans. Long term management plans have been completed for five
areas: Sajama, Beni Biological Station, Noel Kempf, Amboro, Ulla-Ulla; and four more were in
the final stages of completion: Eduardo Avaroa, Chaco, Toro-Toro and Pil6n Lajas (as of June
2001 these plans have been completed).
Two new protected areas (Madidi, and Chaco) were established as foreseen in the SAR and in
the Grant Agreement: Madidi National Park in the north central Bolivia was established on
September 29, 1995; and Chaco (Kaa-Iya del Gran Chaco) National Park was created on
September 29, 1995. In 1996 the Government successfully negotiated the establishment of a "
bi-national" park with an adjoining area in Paraguay. Three additional protected areas were
created with non-GEF funds during the life of the project: Otuquis National Park, San Matias and
El Palmar National Integrated Management Areas.
Three areas are being managed by NGOs: Ulla Ulla, Noel Kempf and Pilon Lajas. Native
community groups presently manage the Chaco National Park, and the Beni Biological Station is
managed by an academic institute. Management agreements have been signed with NGOs
regarding management of two more decentralized units: Eduardo Avaroa, and Tariquia. Pilon
Lajas will be transferred from management by an NGO to native groups in the area under the
follow-up GEF project. Regional development committees had input into the management
process in most areas at the end of the project.
Boundaries have been drawn up, and agreed upon by local communities and the National
Government for eight areas. Working with the National Institute for Agrarian Reform (INRA),
the SERNAP expects to complete the legal definition of the additional areas during the follow-up
GEF project;
(iv) implementation of a program of control and enforcement within the NSPA. An operational
system of protection was set up in twelve protected areas. It includes: (a) approximately one
hundred and sixty park wardens, and thirteen area directors plus support staff; (b) a sophisticated
radio communication system (58 fixed radios, 17 mobiles and 28 hand held radios), allowing for
daily contact between central headquarters and fourteen protected areas; (c) all park wardens
were selected in a transparent, participatory fashion via local communities. They are reasonably
equipped and have received training in such areas as: policies and procedures; enforcement and
biology; (d) basic infrastructure for primary and secondary park guard stations; (e) 50
motorcycles, 16 vehicles and 46 bicycles give wardens the mobility to operate effectively; and (f)
guidelines for standardized patrols and reports have been drawn up and are being followed. In
- 5 -



spite of these positive features, wardens do not have a clear legal mandate for enforcement, or the
long term job security that will ensure continuity. The Biodiversity Conservation Law, when
implemented, will provide additional legal support for their enforcement mandate;
(v)  training for personnel in the National Directorate of Protected Areas (DNCB) and in the
protected areas themselves. An educational profile of all park personnel was developed. Modular
courses (four in all) were given to 230 park guards. The first thirty six have completed the entire
series. An agreement for ongoing training has been drawn up with Gabriel Rene Moreno
University. Masters degree theses relating to protected area management were supported. Eight
NSPA staff received training from specialized institutions outside Bolivia. Finally, 21 area
directors and technical people completed a modular training program; and
(vi)  development of rules regulations, policies and procedures to supervise NSPA  and
coordinated system for law enforcement. Policies and regulations were drawn up and are being
followed regarding: community involvement to decision making; building specifications and
infrastructure in parks; enforcement procedures; hiring and promotion of staff, and management
of area finances. Policies on access and use of genetic resources were developed.
Policies and scientific studies regarding the census, management, and use of wildlife (notably
crocodiles, vicufia) were developed, and pilot management programs initiated. The vicunia
population doubled from that of 1986 to 33,800 animals in 1998. Experimental harvests of vicufia
wool have been executed in two areas. The GOB is working with the International Council on
Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) to allow for certification and legal export. This can well
be the beginning of a lucrative export industry for Bolivia and was developed in large part by staff
funded under the project.
In coordination with the Subsecretariat of Tourism, a policy on Ecotourism in Protected Areas is
being finalized. Critical legislation which would allow for charging user fees remains to be
passed, and at the end of the project access to protected areas remained free to users. Such a
program is vital for the ongoing financing of the NSPA.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Positive features were:
(i)  the assignment of technically qualified professionals with high level of political support as
directors of the DGB;
(ii)  hiring of competent field level professionals;
(iii) implementation of a well designed training program for park guards;
(iv) timely construction of infrastructure and provision of vehicles, uniforms and logistic support
to the protected areas financed under the project;
- 6 -



(v) involving NGOs and local authorities in the decision making process regarding management
of the NSPA;
(vi)  adequate intensity and frequency of supervision missions; and
(vii) obtaining political support of the Executive Branch and of Congress for the establishment
of two new protected areas.
In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) financial administration and supervision were seen as the
exclusive role of the Project Management Unit (PMU) in FONAMA, while actual implementation
was the responsibility of the DNCB. The Bank was to supervise implementation via a locally
based consultant to follow up on day to day issues and by periodic fields visits by a
Washington-based task manager.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The original project concept document could not have foreseen the numerous political changes
and conflicts which took place one year after execution started and their impact on project
execution. It was important to the success of the project that the Bank had the flexibility to
approve changes in the operating plans as these unpredictable events arose. Examples: invasion
of areas by commercial forest harvesters; organized union protests over land rights; spontaneous
illegal colonization; coca production and illegal mining in protected areas; institutional collapse.
In addition, the Bank needed to respond (not always successfully) to the priorities and policies of
three different governments.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The factors which impacted the project positively for most of its execution period are as follows:
(i)   the designation of DGB technically qualified directors who enjoyed high political support,
adequate funding, and the mandate to act independently without political interference;
(ii)  the hiring of competent dedicated technical/field level professionals for the DGB and for
each of the protected areas;
(iii)  the involvement of local communities in park management activities particularly in the
selecting of competent park personnel, budget preparation and in their active participating in the
area development committees;
(iv)  interactive Bank Supervision Missions composed of experienced Parks personnel and local
experts, which combined technical advise as well as routine evaluation;
(v)   the development of national programs, by technically qualified staff, to begin the
sustainable management of vicufia and crocodiles, was particularly significant; and
(vi)  the government's political will to establish with project funds two new, large, ecologically
significant areas (Chaco, Madidi).
Factors that limited project performance were:
(i)   the change in institutional framework for execution of the project brought about by the
- 7 -



reorganization of the public sector promoted by the incoming government;
(ii)   weakening of FONAMA which was the financial intermediary for the project. Under the
reorganization of the public sector institutions, FONAMA lost its autonomy and was placed
under the umbrella of the MDSMA. This resulted in frequent changes (six in four years) of its
general manager reportedly for political reasons. Changes in FONAMA implied delays in timely
disbursement of Grant funds and in the procurement process of goods and services;
(iii)  lack of permanent positions for technical staff in the DGB forced the DGB to resort to
hiring consultants for line positions throughout the life of the project;
(iv)   considerable more time and effort was required than originally foreseen for the
consultation process with local communities (particularly in protected areas with diverse
socioeconomic issues); and
(v)   the advent of a new goveniment administration in August 1997, brought about many
staffing changes in the DGB which resulted in the departure of qualified project-trained staff.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The most important factor affecting project performance was the frequent changes in FONAMA's
upper management authorities. Sustainability of project supported activities was adversely
affected by FONAMA's failure to managed effectively the trust fund and to obtain additional
grants to meet the minimum amount required to generate sufficient income to finance in the
medium and long-term operational costs of the NSPA.
The factors limiting project performance were:
(i)   the constant management instability of FONAMA and its lack of capacity to both
manage the fiduciary fundand to lobby for additional grants. This had the single most debilitating
effect on the project rate of execution. This was exacerbated in June 1997 when FONAMA
project coordinating unit staff was dismissed and was not adequately replaced until more than a
year later;
(ii)   hiring of staff in both FONAMA and in the DNCB/DGB using criteria based on other than
technical considerations. This was particularly serious in the case of FONAMA;
(iii)  excessive emphasis on central programs and administration in the initial years of project
execution. This reduced funding to the areas themselves and delayed the decentralization of
authority to protected areas;
(iv)  failure to incorporate more fully communities into the planning and management process
of some protected areas was a weakness which sometimes caused less than full commitment on
their part. Admittedly, there were complex socio-economic issues affecting the work within and
among communities which made it difficult to integrate them in the management of particular
parks. Additionally, lack of experience on the part of project staff in conflict resolution
methodology implied that the process was more complex and time consuming than originally
foreseen;
(v)   excessive time, effort, and money in developing "traditional" management plans that were
overly detailed, and impractical to implement. Plans followed an exhaustive "inventory" model
- 8 -



and few addressed critical real issues facing the areas;
(vi)   difficulty in transferring management of more protected areas to NGOs or to local
organized groups. Experience made it evident that this is an initiative that requires the existence
of several pre-conditions to be successful. For example: technical, administrative and financial
capacity of NGOs and native communities to manage parks; absence of socio-economic and
political conflicts and availability of other than government funds to finance recurrent costs. These
conditions did not exist when the project started and it took almost three years of project
execution to obtain a propitious environment to rich management agreements with four NGOs
and one native community;
(vii) failure of the MDSMA to develop a coherent, integrated ecotourism policy and area user
fees system to generate revenue to manage the areas;
(viii) while not discounting the complex legal issues involved, the failure to develop a capacity
to enforce regulations regarding wildlife sale, illegal activities within parks, or to develop the
legislation necessary to give park guards legitimate authority for enforcement were serious
limitations; and
(ix)  the tendency to expand the NSPA in terms of area and number of parks before the
project-supported core system was established and in place. For this reason the relation between
the project financed areas and the other areas of the NSPA became increasingly blurred since it
was impossible to have global initiatives such as staff training exclusively for project-financed
parks and ignoring thie staff of other parks.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Throughout the life of the project the NSPA continued to expand, adding new (un-funded) areas.
In 1998 there were a total of 26 areas representing 14% of the land area of Bolivia. While the
project did not finance these areas, their rapid addition to the system, drew away important
resources required to stabilize the core project NSPA areas agreed to under the SAR. The
lessons learned are: (i) that a solid central core of well run, adequately financed areas with a
functioning administrative unit should be in place before considering the addition of new areas to
a system; (ii) subsequent additions of new areas should have a financial management plan in place
before initiating; ancd (iii) expansion should proceed only in the context of a clear National Plan
built with extensive community participation.
While the SAR foresaw the possibility of financing ongoing operational costs of the NSPA via
interest on a fiduciary fund, it did not adequately assess the inherent political weakness of
FONAMA, nor the legal political difficulties in establishing a "fee for service" ecotourism based
program to make areas self sustainable. Additionally, while the need to establish a fund was
foreseen, its development was hindered by: (i) the decision to wave the condition on effectiveness
that a US$5m be deposited in the account; (ii) the failure to understand the legal ramifications
relative to managernent of the fund within Bolivia and managing funds outside the country; and
(iii) the limitations on the types of investments permitted by National Law
Although several donors had been willing to contribute to the Fiduciary Fund during the project's
implementation period, FONAMA was unable to establish sufficient credibility to raise the
US$35m required to generate sufficient income to finance the operating costs of 14 core areas of
the SNAP.  While donors wanted to contribute they were reluctant to actually deposit their
-9-



commitments in a fund that was generally considered to have been poorly managed. By the time
the project closed, the balance in the fund was about US$6.3m. However, additional pledges
total: (i) US$6m from four bilateral donors (Canada, Great Britain, USAID, Switzerland); and
(ii) approximately US$70m pledged by the GOB and donors over the next 30 years.
Sustainability and growth of the Fiduciary Fund and thus of the NSPA will depend on the political
decisions of the current GOB regarding the future of FONAMA and of the entity that has
replaced the DGB, called SERNAP (National Protected Areas Service). Moreover, the MDSMA
has requested GEF financing for a follow up project which is currently under preparation.
Success in getting it approved would imply the Fiduciary Fund would be reactivated under an
improved or new institutional framework. This in turn would instill confidence in the donor
community to honor their pledgel.
The fact that the GEF did not require counterpart funding resulted in the GOB not budgeting any
funds to finance items not eligible under the Grant such as import duties and local sales taxes.
This delayed import of equipment and local purchases of goods.
* The follow-up project, Bolivia GEF Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas, has been approved
in January 18, 2001. It supports a private foundation, FUNDESNAP, which will operate a trust fund with the
resources transferred from FONAMA, USAID/PL-480 and GEF, for an initial amount of US$10 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
In general, project sustainability and sustainability of the NSPA is "likely". Although the gains in
institutional strengthening were partially lost with the departure of trained staff, protection of the
various parks was considerably enhanced with the investments made in goods and services. The
training program for park rangers was successful.
Sustainability of the operational costs for the NSPA was designed to come from interest
generated from a trust fund initiated with project assistance. A target figure of US$35 million was
to have generated US$2.8m/annually, sufficient to finance the annual operating costs of fourteen
core areas at an estimated rate of US$200,000 per area per year. It was assumed that GOB and
donor financing would support central programs and investments.
A viable NSPA (National System of Protected Areas) was established representing an area
equivalent to about 14 per cent of the national territory; trained professionals remain in place in
the protected areas; infrastructure and logistics equipment are contributing to the protection of
the NSPA; the GOB has consistently committed a budget of approximately US$3.0million/year to
manage the parks system. In the long run, given the unique and reach of biodiversity of the
NSPA plus the growing global interest on carbon exchange initiatives, prospects for long term
funding from various donors are good. These possibilities will be further explored in the follow-up
GEF project.
The SAR designed a sustainability component into the project. It was based on a fiduciary fund
whose interest would pay ongoing operational costs of the areas after the project ended. In
retrospect, FONAMA was not the most appropriate institution to be charged with raising and
managing this fund and there were no provisions for it to have access to technical assistance. A
- 10-



private entity (as recommended by the USAID study in 1996) would probably have been more
efficient and effective at least in managing the fund. The DGB itself would have been also a more
promising site to raise funds, as they had the data required to publicize the system. A fund raising
unit within the DGB or even better, a contract with a private entity would have been a more
logical, less bureaucratic approach.
Central program costs and administration were reduced from approximately 50% to 27% over the
life of the project. While the successful wildlife management and genetics component were
included within "central programs", nonetheless too small a percentage of the funding got to the
areas. In designing a future project, administration and central program ceilings should be more
carefully defined in the SAR (PAD).
To be achieved via the establishment of a trust fund by the National Enviromnent Fund
(FONAMA). The interest earned by this trust fund will provide financing for recurrent costs of
the NSPA.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A follow-up GEF operation in Bolivia - Sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas
- has been approved by the GEF and the World Bank on January 2001, and became effective on
April 2001. Drawing on the lessons learned from this operation, it aims at consolidating the core
functions of the NSPA, including appropriate policies, regulations, incentive structures, adequate
funding and institutional strengthening.
By project completion the fiduciary fund actually had about US$5.lm in grants plus US$1.2m in
earned interest for a total of US$6.3m. Several donors (the Netherlands and Germany) chose to
maintain their contributions to the NSPA out of the fund until its credibility was established.
These parallel contributions and pledges to support the SNAP come to US$70m. The breakdown
is as follows: (i) parallel financing of US$20m over twenty years via the Netherlands; (ii)
US$12m parallel financing by Germany; (iii) US$30 m over 30 years from a Carbon debt
exchange arranged for Noel Kempf National Park; and (iv) various bilateral and private initiatives
amounting to approximately US$1 m per year over next three years. Beginning in 1998 the GOB
committed approximately US$ 270,000 to the NSPA.
"Parallel financing" supports the same objectives as the fiduciary fund ("ongoing operational cost
of parks") and could be rolled into the fiduciary fund in future if and when FONAMA regains
credibility among the donor community.
In spite of this financial support available at the end of June 1998, the NSPA budget was reduced
from US$6.0 m per year (1997) to less than US$4.0m between June and December 1998.
Bolivia's financial troubles led to further reductions to this level of financing, to an average
US$3mlyear between 1999 and 2001.
Thus, while the NSPA was sustainable in reduced form at the end of the project, it was not
sustainable at the optimal level of functioning foreseen in the SAR or that realized up until June
1998. There was a short term lack of continuity and a risk of a decline in the level of functioning
as of June 1998. With the approval of the follow up GEF operation in January 2001, prospects
for sustainability were greatly improved. The new project focuses primarily on sustainability
issues.
- 11 -



The following factors limited the possibility of optimal sustainability of the SNAP in 1998:
(i) the current GOB lost valuable time in preparing a proposal for a follow up project resulting
in a time execution and funding gap between the first and the proposed follow up operation which
would have built directly on the gains made in GEF 1; and
(ii) the protracted and ongoing instability of FONAMA led to donors skepticism in the fiduciary
fund and in FONAMA's future ability to raise money and manage the fund. There were no new
donations to the fiduciary fund since 1995. Until FONAMA is either substantially reorganized or
replaced with an alternative entity, it is unlikely that interest income of the current fiduciary fund
would generate sufficient operating revenues for the system.
The Bank received expressions of interest for a second phase of the GEF Biodiversity project, in
May 1998. In June 1998 a follow up formal application was made, and GEF II planning began in
August 1998. The project entitled "Sustainability of the Bolivian Protected Areas System" has
been approved in January 2001 and became effective in April 2001. It aims at ensuring the
sustainable management of the NSPA by establishing and strengthening: (a) the legal and policy
frameworks; (b) the management capacities at the PA and central levels; and (c) the NSPA
financing mechanisms.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
World Bank Performance was "satisfactory".
The SAR did not foresee the creation of a large Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment (MDSMA/MDSP), nor of the establishment of a sophisticated National Directorate
of Protected Areas with a high political profile. The Bank nonetheless demonstrated flexibility to
the new circumstances by agreeing to modify the legal agreement to reflect the changes and new
institutional environment. The Bank agreed to adapt the original project design to the substantial
institutional structural changes of the public sector effected by the incoming government of 1993.
The most significant factors limiting the Bank's performance were: (i) the decision to waive the
effectiveness requirement that the fiduciary account should have at least US$5.0 in deposit and
managed by an International Investment fmn; (ii) not fully understanding at appraisal the
limitations of the types of investment that GOB could legally make with resources of the fiduciary
fund; and (iii) not realizing at appraisal the extent of the technical expertise required and costs to
manage a fiduciary fund.
7.2 Supervision:
World Bank Performance was "highly satisfactory".
The Bank was particularly innovative in the selection of consultants for supervision missions,
drawing on experienced individuals executing similar operations in other countries such as
Ecuador and Venezuela thus promoting exchange of information among these projects and
avoiding duplication of efforts. As a result, Venezuela is introducing Bolivia's park guard training
program, while Ecuador is attempting to replicate the Bolivian model for Regional Committees.
Ongoing local supervision by a consultant specialist also allowed for prompt identification of
- 12 -



problems, compliance with work plans and Bank procedures, and technical assistance. In
addition, supervision missions were of particular assistance to the GOB in: (a) assisting in defining
budgets and reassigning of categories; (b) resolving financial issues relating to taxes, procurement,
and procedures; (c) identifying technical assistance available to help solve deficiencies identified
during missions.
In addition, as the developing DGB evolved and matured, developing a capable financial
management unit in the process, the Bank supported the establishment of a system of accountable
cash advances from FONAMA to the DGB which resulted in a steady improvement in
disbursements generally and to timely payments to protected areas in particular. This pattern of
improvement was continuous until the unfortunate dismissal of FONAMA's project coordinator
in June 1997.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The World Bank performance was "satisfactory". Intensity and frequency of supervision missions
was programmed to assist the GBO solve implementation issues in a timely fashion. The skills
mix of supervision missions reflected the complexity of the project and the Bank with Swiss
support provided both local and central supervision and technical assistance.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The initial performance of the project coordination unit was "satisfactory".
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the GOB at the level of the Ministry of Sustainable Development and
Environment was less than satisfactory since it was responsible for the frequent changes in
FONAMA's management authorities. These changes impacted adversely the efficiency of project
execution, and, more specifically, were a devastating factor in the operationality of the fiduciary
fund. Since FONAMA acted as the project's financial coordinator, any change in its management
resulted in protracted and prolonged delays in timely payment of staff salaries and of bills for
goods and services.
Suggestions and recommendations from supervision missions were usually followed up on with
actions. The success in meeting project objectives is a matter of record. Also, for most of the
execution period the project management unit within FONAMA was very efficient in ensuring
that neither the DNCB nor the parks were late in receiving funds.
The GOB delayed requesting a second phase of the GEF project, that would have built on the
successes realized. The failure to make a timely funding request for a follow up operation or to
otherwise ensure adequate funding after the project terminated led to a contraction of the NSPA
which resulted in staffing reduction and delays in payment of salaries.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although the DGB showed capacity to manage the program, the frequent changes in FONAMA
had a major negative impact on the project execution making its performance unsatisfactory.
Nevertheless, the DGB was successful in coordinating and managing the project activities. Work
plans, budgets and reports were usually received on time. Project execution at the field level and
at headquarters was carried out effectively; all audits were satisfactory and usually timely; and
- 13 -



relations with Bank technical staff and visiting missions were excellent.
However, this performance dropped significantly after June 1997, when the project coordinator
and his staff were dismissed. After this, protracted delays (up to three months) in meeting salary
and contraz2t obligations became common. Delays in payment of salaries obligated many trained
staff to leave the system. In addition, there was an ongoing lack of transparency in filling some
key staff positions throughout the project, as well as various questions on the awarding of service
contracts in a transparent manner.
FONAMA failed to generate sufficient funds via the fiduciary fund to support immediate ongoing
operati ,  s'-  failing attributable to its instability, weakness and its eventual collapse. The
ongoing instability of FONAMA upper management hampered its ability to generate funds, or to
manage well the fiduciary fund. For most of the project life FONAMA had neither a clear
mandate, nor political support. During the life of the project there were at least fifteen acting
directors, and no less than 4 full scale "reorganizations" most of which were only partially carried
out.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
The Borrower's overall total performance is rated "satisfactory".
The system of extending accountable advances to protected areas for their operating costs
worked well, and was a great improvement over the original centralized system operated by
FONAMA. With the exception of a notable lapse in 1998, project disbursements to area
personnel proceeded efficiently, and decentralized administration capacity was developed.
8. Lessons Learned
The following are the key lessons learned from execution of the project:
(a)    Expansion of a NSPA: Before fostering the expansion of a national system of protected
areas, a core of well run, adequately functioning areas should be in place. Moreover, expansion
should be based in the context of a national biodiversity policy and strategy, recognizing the
limitation of available financial resources and the capacity to enforce protection in the existing
areas;
(b)   Institutional Framework: A project's design should allow a margin of flexibility to adapt
project execution to a new institutional framework as speedily as possible without compromising
the original project's objectives. A "politically solvent" institutional framework (meaning one that
is not bound to be changed by political interests) is imperative for a project to be successful. This
is not easy to have in developing countries with fragile public sector entities subject to be replaced
or reorganized whenever there is a change in government authorities. Moreover, when the
reshaping of the public sector is as broad as the one that took place in Bolivia in 1993 a covenant
in a project legal document requiring prior consultation with the Bank has limited enforcement
effect. When a government commits financial resources and designates a technical person with a
high political profile to manage a project, the probability of success is high. Lacking any of the
these elements, prospects are reduced considerably. A corresponding commitment to the
renewing of the contracts of technical personnel is also important. Signing authority should
ideally be confined to the project accountant and the National Director of Protected Areas. The
latter should be selected via open competition. Higher authorities should focus on broad policy
- 14 -



issues, and approval of the annual operating plans. In its initial stages the project suffered from
having up to 20 authorizations required for simple disbursements;
(c)   Permanent Staffing: Successful implementation requires a core of qualified permanent
staff by the time the operation is approved or at least the existence of a minimum number
authorized positions that can be filled by the time execution starts. While the use of consultants
may be a temporary measure to fill staffing gaps or to provide expertise not available in the
institution, it should not be utilized as a way to fill line positions on the long term. Similarly, "
commitment" to a course of action should be continuous over the course of changes in
government. W'hen, an incoming government reestablished priorities and strategies without
building on the success of previous experience, problems can quickly result and valuable time,
efforts and resources are lost.
(d)   Public Participation: while public participation is a legal requirement in Bolivia, the
difficulty and complexity of dealing with indigenous communities in remote protected areas is
often underestimatecd. Two approaches successfully adopted by the project were: (i) to select the
park wardens by and from local communities; and (ii) establish PA management committees
where some of their members represent the local communities;
(e)    SustainabilitW:   Fiduciary Funds require more detailed preparation work and the
involvement of qualified experts. Financial sustainability was to have been assured by a fiduciary
fund established and managed by FONAMA. However, the project's design failed to identify and
anticipate the complexity of such initiative in an institutional environment highly influenced by
politics, without expertise in international investments and without the means to pay for such
expertise if it became available. In planning for sustainability via a fiduciary fund, more attention
should be paid to: (i) the institutional strength and expertise of the executing agency; (ii)
constraints of existinig laws on the types of investments which can be realized locally and abroad;
(iii) foreign tax issues for external investments; and (iv) the composition of the board that would
manage the fund; and
(f)    Management of Protected Areas by NGOs/Communities: The Project gave credence to
the fact that protected areas run by qualified local NGOs and/or indigenous groups were more
effectively managed. It was also evident that this is only possible while there is external financing
available. When monetary resources become scarce, it is very difficult for these groups to provide
their own funds and to maintain any meaningful presence in the area. Additionally, unless the
NGO or indigenous group has a member technically qualified and experienced to act as park
administrator and unless the group has had some previous experience in managing a protected
area, the chances for success would be minimal.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The formation of the local "parks development committees" was a key element in the successful
development of the NSPA. Their participation was instrumental in achieving the positive results
obtained, and in providing for some continuity during changes of government. Their role should
be reinforced and expanded.
The process of selecting park wardens from the surrounding communities and with their full
- 15 -



participation in the selection process was vital to the adequate functioning of the warden system.
Acceptance of the areas within the NSPA varies greatly throughout the system. The difference
relates both to the number and location of the communities in the area, and to the extent they
participate in planning, management end economic benefits.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Swiss Development Corporation contributed with UD$3.85 million.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
The SAR foresaw all areas being managed by NGOs. This was not always possible given legal
constraints relating to enforcement, resentment of local communities, existing socio-economic
issues, competing demands of regional groups and unavailability of competent and experienced
NGOs in some areas. The GOB sensibly expanded the concept. They allowed any regional
organized group to bid for the management contracts, while retaining temporary control of
conflict areas. This allowed regional indigenous communities to participate fully in planning and
management.
While there was no clear cut superiority in terms of management types selected, (efficiency of
NGOs/local organized groups versus the Central Government) the following principles do apply:
(i) areas run by NGOs/local indigenous groups were demonstrably more capable of attracting
external funding; (ii) the most important single criteria for management effectiveness was the
quality of the area administrator; and (iii) areas managed by NGOs or native groups were more
successful in preventing extractive incursions (mining, logging) into protected areas.
10. Additional Information
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Biodiversity Conservation Project
partially financed by a GEF Grant (TF28620-BO) in the amount of SDR 3.1 million approved on
December 21, 1992, and made effective on July 13, 1993. Cofinancing for the project was
provided by the Government of Switzerland with a grant of SWF 5.2 million approved on May 4,
1993. The original Closing Date for both grants was June 30, 1998, however, an extension to
December 31, 1999 was approved on June 24, 1998. The GEF and Swiss grants were fully
disbursed by end December 1998.
The ICR was prepared in 1999 by Gary Hunnisett, Environmental Specialist at the Bolivia
Resident Mission. It was reviewed by the project's Task Manager Cesar Plaza (LCSES), Richard
Huber (LCSES), Pierre Werbrouck (LCSES), Deborah Bateman (LCCBO), and by Jean Francois
Cuenod representing the Swiss cofmancier. Its final version was further reviewed by Elizabeth
Monosowski (LCSES) and Karin Shepardson (LCSES) in June 2001.The Borrower prepared a
separate report.
Preparation of this ICR is based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Grant Agreement
and its amendments; reports generated by supervision missions; the independent midterm
evaluation carried out by the International Conservation Union (UICN); reports submitted by the
GOB and FONAMA; annual audit reports; and observations and cormments of the Swiss
cofinancier. The Borreower reviewed and had no further comments to this report.
As the report was prepared by staff at the Resident Mission there was no special ICR Mission.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndlatoMatrbx                      Projected u last PSR                  ActuaiLatest Estimate
Recruit central and area personnel. Train   1997                             Warden system equipped and trained by
and equip appropriately                                                      1997. DNCB staffed and equipped, but both
suffered tumovers at end of project.
Dedare two new protected areas        1998                                   Madidi and Chaco established in 1995
Adequate functioning of 7 protected areas   1998                             Level of lunctioning declined in 1997-98.
Inadequate funds for administration in 1998.
Develop Wildlife Management Programs  1998                                   Successful programs in vicufnas and
crocodiles. Others in preparation.
Output Indicators:
IndlcatorMatrlx                     Projected In last PSR                 ActuaULatest Estimate
In addition to the 2 new areas foreseen to be 1997                           A total of 5 new protected areas were
created in the SAR, the GOB planned for 3                                    created.
more.
In addition to the 9 areas foreseen to be  1997                              A total of 14 areas were under management
under management in the SAR, the GOB                                         at the end of the project.
planned for 14.
While the SAR called for 'capturing    1997                                  GOB created a genetics unit that enacted
indigenous knowledge', the GOB decided to                                    norms and controlled the use of genetic
expand on the concept to collate such                                        resources and native knowledge.
knowledge and protect i as a national
patrimony.
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pr*ect Cost b Com onent (in US$ mnillion uivalent)
Support for the Implementation of the National System of  1.89         1.69             24
protected Areas (SNAP).
Establishment of priority Protected Areas.             4.71            4.91              60
Altemative Management of Natural Resources in Buffer   0.13            0.13            1.65
Zone.
Strategies for Long Tern Funding of Protected Areas.   0.01            0.11            0.13
Monitoring and Evaluation.                             0.10            0.10            1.26
Support for Project Implementation and Supervision.    0.80            0.80           10.13
Unallocated                                            0.26            0.00            3.29
Total Baseline Cost                                    7.90            7.74
Physical Contingencies                                0.10            0.12             1.2
Price Contingencies                                   0.35            0.45             4.2
Total Project Costs               8.35            8.31
Total Financing Required                8.35            8.31
Project Financing by Component in US$ million equivalent)
GET                     4.50                        4.39                        97.6
SDC (Swiss Development                     3.85                        3.85                  100.0
Corporation)
-18 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performn   Rating
(e.g. 2 Econoniists, 1 fM$, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year,   Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
1993                 24.8 Staff   N/A                                 S             S
Weeks
Appraisal/Negotiation
1993                   9. 7 Staff   N/A                               S             S
Weeks
Supervision
March 1994            2 Persons   - Environment Specialist            S             S
- Program Administrator
Sept/Oct 1994         5 Persons   - Environment Specialist            S             S
- Parks Management
- Financial Management
July 1995             4 Persons   - Environment Specialist            S             S
- Natural Resources
Management
- Institutional Management
Apr/May 1996                  5   - Environment Specialist            S             S
- Natural Resources
Management
- Community Development
- Program Administrator
Nov 1996                      3   - Environment Specialist            S             S
- Program Administrator
- Natural Resources
Management
Oct/Nov 1997                 4   - Environment Specialist             S             S
- Program Specialist
- Financial Specialist
ICR
N/A                        N/A     N/A
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/LatestEstimate     :
________________________         No. Staff weeks               US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation                24.8                         47.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                      9.7                         21.9
Supervision                               63.9                        178.6
ICR                                        4.0                         12.7
Total                                     98.4                        261.0
-20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
N Physical                                 OH *SUOM ON ONA
Z Financial                                0 H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
X Institutional Development                O H  O SU 0 M  O N  0 NA
Environmental                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                  OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Gender                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Indigenous People
I Private sector development               C) H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
t Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                   C) H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=HighWy Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
7 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperforrmance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance             O HS *       O 0 U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Study                           Purpose                                Status
Strategy of Management of PAS.              Develop Administrative capacity.       Completed
Assess information requirements for                                                Completed
management SNAP.
Identify hardware and software requirements.   Provide a numerical basis for decision  Completed
making and budgeting.
Agreements to access existing data bases
Completed
Information system on SNAP                Operational basis for decision making     Completed
Evaluation of biologic/ecological integrity of  Evaluate the completeness and       Completed
system.                                        representatively of SNAP
Proposals for expansion and modification        Consolidation of SNAP              Completed
SNAP.
Develop training modules and programs for   Develop highly trained park managers and  Completed
guards.                                               wardens.
Work Plan for training and annual        System to ensure adequate execution and    Completed
evaluations.                                          planning.
Develop procedures and regulations for SNAP    Policies and procedures uniform and  Completed
personnel.                                     understood by personnel.
Develop an effective radio communication  Coordinate control and supervision in     Completed
system.                                                 PAS.
Develop guidelines and expertise to develop  Improve expertise of park personnel.  Completed
uniform management plans.
Prepare management plans for following    To serve as a foundation for planning,
areas:                                      budgeting and PA development.
*      Carrasco                                                                    Completed
Amboro                                                                      Completed
*      Noel Kempff                                                                 Completed
*     Eduardo Avaroa                                                               Completed
*      Ulla Ulla                                                                   Completed
Develop annual operating plans for 8 PAS     Implement management plans             Completed
Establish two new PAs in:                 To complete ecological coverage of the    Completed
*      Alto Madidi                                     SNAP
*      Gran Chaco
Design of an environmental education      Develop capacity of DGB to manage          Partial
program with trained DGB personnel.               outreach program.
Review of existing uses of wildlife and     Develop knowledge base to begin         Completed
evaluate pressures and recommend                    management.
management practices.
Develop pilot projects in wildlife         Initiate sustainable harvest system.     Completed
management.
Identify germoplasm in need of conservation.  To serve as a basis for management and  Completed
protection.
Develop long term funding strategy and     To ensure sustainability of system.       Partial
capability for SNAP.
Annual reviews and evaluations.              To provide basis for improved          Completed
management.                                  l
- 23 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23957R
7V.                                                     6. 5r    B  0   L I V  I A
  50 100 150 2C0 250 B R A  Z I L                                                             BIODIVERSITY  CONSERVATION
0         50DKILOMEtEIS                           _ ~%. ToP0rtnvt10                                                  PROJECT
tooLE       150              .-       Fnoftelrzo,(
~DMILES                                     ~-                                            ob   upre   yBoiest
C         df  Established Protected Areas                                          --- 600-  Isohyets in millimeters/year
To Rio Banfco,                                  E,t   eSpotd y/oiest
So.o0G GsoyoeRkn       Guojor6 Mir.m                      Conservatiorn Project                       ROADS:
ToRbbotzncoX   _-J'  MgttSonlomrm  Gur(4GuqonSMirim                    -v  Proposed Protected Areas                        Main
int                                                                                         Secondary
\ P   1t p  A    N   D  O                                                                                           --------  Tracks
)    Towns
t2                                                                                                           Department Capitals ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deatmn  aptls *,
     National Capitai
OH                                             PtoSiles                                '                                    Department Boundaries
International Boundaries
el ,ADIDI                                                              > r,                                              Elevafitns in meters:
-  S.. R..me07Iguea                  '       '
4 g.  i Sn R r'  9/                       o>.  3500
0               res~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P  E  R  U                            1                    Bxirol SanteoAna                                                                       2500
P-,                                     E5. ,a                                  KEMP    M.           (10
e\ burena. Ct,,RLrr9nob       E. BI4LOGICAL BE,4I    /
Sa Borjai                Pt>a FR0 JIon                                        P-t Freyb
zcO                                                                                                                                             B R ACHILA    R
MWaron,                                                                      RI                                                                       - -g; = ,,--b
Todft:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1ToSnRio
LInvlt0*G                           C    Rn  U    ZJOiVA~          RAI
!2.   ~      C.   16
A    R    G  E~~~~~~FJT  I   N    A  '~~~~~~~  ?~~~i~~"~~Z A    A    GRUAGYB.                   Y
(  Tn Baths, Raear~~~,   EnrbarcociM  er o~~~oeeepboon.ofeech                    >-~~             nf
-Z;P,(--_To AsuncOn and       le.          JANUAY t MP



