GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
IOU3-3o
Bolivia
Biodiversity Conservation
Project Document
March 1992
THE WORLD BANK






CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Boliviano (Bs)
Exchange Rate Effective June 1992
US$1.00 = Bs 3.8992
US$0.2665 = Bs 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BII        -    Bolivian Indigenous Institute
CDC        -    Centro de Datos para la Conservacion
CIDOB      -    Indigenous Indian Federation
SDC        -    Swiss Development Cooperation
DNAPVS   -    National Directorate for Protected
Areas
EAP        -    Environmental Action Plan
FAN        -    Friends of Nature Foundation
FONAMA  -    Fondo Nacional Para El Medio Ambiente
(National Environmental Fund)
GEF        -    Global Environment Facility
GET        -    Global Environment Trust Fund
GOB        -    Government of Bolivia
SEDEMAS -    Departmental Environmental Offices
SENMA    -    Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente
(National Environmental Secretariat)
SNAP       -    National System of Protected Areas
UNDP       -    United Nations Development Program






BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJZCT (BCP)
Grant and Progect Summary
Grantor:      Global Environment Trust Fund (GET)
Grant Recipient:       Government of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:       National Environmental Secretariat (SENMA)
National Environmental Fund (FONAMA)
Amount:       SDR 3.1 million (US$4.5 million equivalent)
Terma:      Grant
Financing Plan:       GET                        US$ 4.5 million
Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC)        USS 3.9 million
TOTAL                     USS 8.4 million
Economic Rate of Return:        N.A.
Map:      IBRD 23957R






BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
Background
1.    Bolivia is one of the most important countries in Latin America for the
conservation of biodiversity, not only because the ecosystems in many areas
are still pristine, but because it contains about 18,000 species of plants and
1,274 species of birds (very high for a landlocked country). It has a high
index of endemism. Moreover, many of the forest and natural grassland
habitats, which have been greatly reduced in neighboring countries,
(particularly Brazil and Argentina) are still relatively extensive in Bolivia.
2.    The principal threat to most of Bolivia's rare plant and animal species
is the loss or degradation of the natural habitats upon which these species
depend. By far the most serious and widespread cause of habitat loss is
deforestation, particularly in the eastern slopes of the Andes, the eastern
(Santa Cruz) lowlands, and the Amazonian lowlands. The extensive annual
burning of natural grasslands for pasture management also threatens certain
native plants and animals. A relatively few plant and animal species are
threatened by direct over-exploitation (for wood, meat, skins, or the pet
trade).
3.    Thus far, nearly 10 percent of the country's surface area has been set
aside in 31 National Parks, Wildlife Reserves, Biological Reserves, or other
categories of protected areas. Some of these protected areas are already
being financed in part through ongoing or planned development projects
supported by the Bank/IDA. For example, the Noel Kempff Mercado and Amboro
National Parks are being strengthened under the IDA-supported Eastern Lowlands
Project, and several new protected areas in the Chaco region (Bafiados de
Izozog, Bafiados de Otuqis, and possibly others) are likely to be supported
under the proposed Bank/IDA Power/Gas Pipeline Project. However, most of
Bolivia's protected areas are still only paper parks", with little or no on-
the-ground protection.
4.    The Government's awareness of the need to address environmental
problems, including biodiversity loss, has grown considerably within the past
several years. Recent Governmental initiatives relevant to biodiversity
conservation include:



2
the establishment of the Secretaria Nacional del Medio Ambiente (SENMA)
responsible for formulating environmental policy and monitoring
implementation;
the establishment of a National Environmental Fund (Fondo Nacional para
el Medio Ambiente, FONAMA) to coordinate and administer local and
external financing for environmental programs, including biodiversity;
the elaboration of an Environmental Action Plan (Plan de Acci6n
Ambiental Boliviano, EAP) and a Forestry Action Plan (Plan de Acci6n
Forestal para Bolivia, 1990-1995), both of which devote considerable
attention to biodiversity conservation;
the first ever debt-for-nature swap (in 1987, when US$650,000 of
Bolivian debt was used to finance the long-term management of the Beni
Biological Reserve and Chimanes Forest Reserve); and
the enactment of a broad environmental law.
5.    The EAP establishes a permanent environmental planning process at the
national, regional and local levels, identifies key environmental issues
giving emphasis to biodiversity, and incorporates public participation (NGOs,
community groups), as an essential element in environmental planning. The
broad-based composition of the Board of FONAMA and of the Advisory Council of
SENMA will further strengthen the EAP's participatory process in environmental
planning and management.
6.    The new institutional structure under the new Law includes, in addition
to SENMA and FONAMA, nine departmental secretariats (SEDEMAS) under the
auspices of SENMA, as well as nine departmental environmental councils
(CODEMAS). CODEMAS will be responsible for formulating environmental policies
in their respective departments, while SEDEMAS will be responsible for
executing such policies. SENMA, through CODEMAS, will keep close
communication with department, municipal authorities and local groups to
ensure that national environmental strategies reflect local needs. FONAMA
will support SENMA by securing donor funding to address investment needs,
without engaging directly in project implementation. SENMA's Secretary would
chair FONAMA's Board.
7.   The new Environmental Law provides a solid base for the protection of
Bolivia's biodiversity. The law formally establishes the National System of
Protected Areas (SNAP) and gives jurisdiction over the country's protected
areas to SENMA. The broad framework and principles of the Law represent an
integrated, cross-sectoral and multi-disciplinary approach to environmental
management and sustainable development. Within the term environment the Law
includes urban and rural development and quality of life, biodiversity and
ecosystem conservation, environmental education, environmental research and
the incorporation of environmental aspects into national planning (ecological,
economic and social). The Environmental Law sets broad guidelines and
institutional responsibilities for the protection of Bolivia's threatened
ecosystems, and gives SENMA the responsibility for formulating policies and
overseeing the management of protected areas. Furthermore, the Protected
Areas Law, soon to be presented to Congress for approval, will further
strengthen SENMA's ability to enforce the implementation of biodiversity
conservation policies, and effectively manage the SNAP.



3
8.    The Biodiversity Conservation project is complemented by the IDA
supported "Environmental Technical Assistance Project" (ETAP). The ETAP's
objectives are to strengthen key Government environment-related institutions
to formulate and implement environmental policies; develop the human resources
necessary to plan, evaluate and implement action programs; support initial
steps toward a rationalized and more effective legal and regulatory system for
environmental protection and natural resources management.
Proiect Obiective
9.   The proposed project would help ensure the protection of representative
samples of some of Bolivia's most diverse and threatened ecosystems. It would
help to convert some of Bolivia's "paper parks" into "real" ones. This would
be accomplished, in part, by strengthening the Government's institutional
capability to protect Bolivia's biodiversity. The management of the protected
areas system would be done through an integrated approach which will involve
local and indigenous communities and institutions. This approach would be
strengthened by a training program for local people and an outreach program,
both designed so local communities may assume increased responsibility for the
management of buffer zones and protected areas.
Proiect Description
10.    The major project components include:  (i) support for the
organization, implementation and follow-up of the National System of Protected
Areas -SNAP; (ii) support to existing protected areas and establishment of new
priority protected areas; (iii) alternative management systems of natural
resources in buffer zones; (iv) monitoring and evaluation; and
(v) administrative support to the project coordinating unit.
11.   Support for the Organization, Implementation and Follow-up of the
National System of Protected Areas (SNAP). (US$1.9 million). This component
would include: (a) institutional support to SENMA's Direcci6n Nacional de
Areas Protegidas y Vida Silvestre (DNAPVS) to manage the SNAP; (b) development
of an information system for the SNAP; (c) consolidation of the system of
protected areas; (d) training of protected areas personnel; and (e) a program
of control and enforcement for the SNAP.
(a)   Institutional support to SENMA's DNAPVS to manage the SNAP:  The
Environmental Law gives SENMA the responsibility for managing the SNAP. The
proposed operation would provide the resources to develop Bolivia's
administrative capacity to effectively manage its protected areas. It would
support the administrative structure of the DNAPVS by funding incremental
salaries, technical assistance, consultants, computers, vehicles and office
equipment to manage the SNAP and to ensure satisfactory project execution. A
well-qualified core team, including the Director of DNAPVS, is already in
place.
(b)   Development of an Information System for the SNAP:  The DNAPVS
will require technical information in order to plan, organize, and manage the
SNAP and to respond to the information needs of the individual protected
areas. Several data banks already exist in Bolivia which can provide



4
ecological, biological, geographical, and natural resources data. For the
short term, DNAPVS would utilize the formidable expertise of the Data
Conservation Center of Bolivia (CDC) to generate needed data. The CDC is
considered a leader in the field of environmental data processing and land-use
mapping having the capacity to create maps, translate and overlay satellite
imagery. Funds would be provided to SENMA to contract CDC for the majority of
the mapping needs, including the zoning and land-use analysis maps needed for
the management plans, and any other necessary geographic information
(boundaries, management zones, indigenous groups in the region, soils and
other biophysical data) of the system of protected areas. A computer system
will also be purchased capable of storing information of up to 2000 megabytes.
While CDC will address SENMA's short term information needs, in the medium-
term SENMA will need to establish an integrated environmental data system to
help identify important issues and guide related policies. Information will
also help to promote public awareness of key environmental issues, and create
pressures for political commitment to address such issues. A study to assess
SENMA's broad information needs has been completed. Recommendations from this
study will provide guidance for establishing a comprehensive information
system. SENMA would seek donor support to establish and operate the
recommended comprehensive environmental information system.
(c)   Consolidation of the Network of Protected Areas:  The current
network of protected areas in Bolivia is very deficient; several parks are
severely degraded, while many high priority areas have no legal status. Most
important, several natural habitat types such as the Chaco, Dry Valleys, High
and Medium Yungas, the Puna, and Savannahs are not included or well
represented within the present system of national parks. The proposed
operation would support the design and completion of a system plan which will
scientifically consolidate the protected areas by evaluating high priority
areas, integrating them and, where necessary, redrawing protected areas
boundaries. (See Annex III). Areas of little biological significance, or
with little recreational or educational value will be eliminated from the
SNAP. As a preparatory step, a study is being carried out to develop a
methodology for evaluating the areas and to prepare an action plan for the
consolidation of the system. The evaluation will include an analysis of the
importance and viability of protection including biological, ecological,
socio-cultural and economic considerations.
(d)   Training of Protected Areas' Personnel:  The proposed operation
would fund a comprehensive five year training program for SNAP personnel at
all levels. Emphasis will be placed in hiring and training local people so
they may assume responsibility for the management of the protected areas. The
objective of the training is to give basic techniques of park planning,
management, maintenance and protection. The workshops will have a mixture of
lecture and "hands-on" projects for the participants to complete. All
training modules include: (i) management and protection of the natural
resouices base; (ii) integration of the decision-making process with local
communities; (iii) evaluation and upgrading of baseline species data including
preferred habitat and estimated population size; (iv) methodolooogies for
annual estimates of population status for a wide variety of species; and
(v) maintenance of the physical plant and equipment. There are good training
institutions in Bolivia and in the region to support this training program.



5
The Ecology Institute of Bolivia, part of the University of La Paz, offers
relevant training courses.
Training will be organized in four modules: (i) a two week basic
training to all protected area personnel on the basic principles of protected
areas management; (ii) a two year training program for high and mid-level park
guards, three months in a training center and 21 months in the specific park
where each guard is assigned; (iii) a nine month training program for lower
level park guards with three months classroom training and 6 months in the
specific parks where the guards are assigned; and (iv) an one month intensive
training program for the park directors. (See Annexes IV and V for detailed
steps and timeframe of the training program).
(e)   Program of Control and Enforcement for the SNAP:  Legal Status.
The Environmental Law (Article 60-65) states that SENMA will undertake the
management and administration of protected areas with support from
governmental agencies, NGOs, local community groups and indigenous groups. To
achieve this objective, the proposed operation would support SENMA to develop
a manual outlining rules, regulations, policies and procedures for the SNAP.
It would also strengthen the DNAPVS to supervise the SNAP and coordinate law
enforcement. Although the management of each protected area will be, to the
degree possible, decentralized, the administration and management of the
protected areas would need to respond to the uniform policies of the SNAP.
The Ecology and Environment Commission of the Bolivian Senate has organized a
working group with national and international specialists to revise the draft
Law of Protected Areas and harmonize it with the new Environmental Law.
Holland, SDC, PL-480, UNDP and IDA (under the Japanese Grant Facility) are
providing support to the preparation process. Once the Law is approved, SENMA
will undertake the preparation of the regulations including rules and
procedures for implementing the law. Bolivia has adopted a democratic process
in preparing the laws, which encourages wide public participation and
education. The participatory process, taking place through national, regional
and departmental seminars, is expected to facilitate implementation of laws
and regulations.
12.   Support and Establishment of Priority Protected Areas (US$4.7 million).
This would include: (i) support for coordinating the development of
management plans; (ii) support to six key existing protected areas;
(iii) establishment of two new areas because of their extraordinary
biodiversity; and (iv) environmental education and extension in and around
protected areas.
(a)   Coordination for the Development of Management Plans:  The
proposed operation will support DNAPVS's capacity to evaluate, supervise,
monitor and execute management plans for the protected areas (budgeted under
each area, and excluding Estacion Biologica Beni which already has one). These
plans would take into account all relevant aspects of the area's biological,
geographical, economic, social and cultural features. They will include an
analysis of: (i) quality of habitat types within the protected areas; and
(ii) complete description of indigenous peoples within the protected areas,
buffer zone, and region. Each management plan will establish guidelines for
protection, use and management of natural resources. It would present a



6
zoning scheme for each park which will classify land according to its need for
protection and capability to accommodate visitor and other uses. Management
plans will be drafted in close consultation with local communities, to ensure
that valid cultural and economic data are gathered and that their needs and
activities are integrated into each plan. Furthermore, a yearly management
plan evaluation process for each protected area will be included. The
evaluation process will be established to ensure that management is effective
and is adapting to changing realities and the availability of improved data on
each area (see Annex VI). The ongoing Bolivia Indigenous Peoples/Biodiversity
Mapping Project to be completed by the end of 1992 will provide useful inputs
into the design of management plans.
Short operational plans for all units in the System would be prepared
annually. These plans will give details on all management activities to be
conducted, including objectives, personnel responsibilities, timeframe and
cost for each activity. Long-term specialized plans for specific management
programs or subprograms will also be prepared for selected units of the
System. Examples of those plans are: interpretive and environmental
education plans; forestry management plans for areas of multiple use.
(b)   Support to key existing protected areas:  The areas to be
supported under the proposed operation represent unique geological,
ecological, and cultural resources. The flora include ten ecoregions and
eight biogeographic provinces that provide habitat for over 1,274 species of
birds. Bolivia is reported to have 18,000 species of plants and countless
rare species of wildlife. The project would fund infrastructure and personnel
needed for the adequate management of the priority protected areas. The areas
selected for support are the following: Carrasco N.P, Amboro N.P, Noel Kempff
Mercado N.P, the Beni Biological Station, Eduardo Avaroa F.R. and Ulla Ulla
F.R.. They were selected because of their high biodiversity, their
representative ecosystems, their ecological integrity and feasibility of
protection. (Figures I and II provide the basis for selection and Annex II
describes the areas selected for protection.) Germany, under the ongoing IDA
Eastern Lowlands Project, is providing through CORDECRUZ management training
and some field equipment to the Amboro N.P. and infrastructure and equipment
to the Noel Kempff Mercado N.P.. This support was taken into account in
designing support to be received by these parks under the proposed operation.
The management of these areas will provide for protection and
recuperation of the natural and cultural heritage. It will also provide
opportunities for environmental education, research, recreation, tourism, and
accommodation of traditional appropriate technologies such as extractive
reserve practices. To accomplish these objectives the protected areas will be
divided into the following zones: wilderness, intensive use, and recuperation
(see Annex I). The zoning system will take into account the management and
control necessary in each zone. It will specify the uses and installations
that shall be permitted or are necessary.
(c)   Establishment of Two Protected Areas; Gaps in the System:  Two yet
to be established areas will be included for support under the proposed
operation because of their extraordinary biodiversity value: Alto Madidi and
El Chaco. These areas will need boundary establishment and legal gazetting.



7
Field surveys will be made of each area to determine suitable boundaries based
on sound ecological principles while taking into account legal, economic and
social issues. Support will also be provided for the completion of management
plans.
(d)   Strengthening Community Participation in the Management of
Protected Areas: The long term success of protected areas will depend on a
high level of public participation from the adjacent communities of the
surrounding region. A wide level of community input would be encouraged by
organizing town and community meetings. Community participation will occur at
both the preparation of the management plans and at the actual management of
the protected areas. Colonists and local businessmen will also be consulted.
The proposed operation would fund: (i) an environmental education and
community outreach program in which educators would be based in each area, but
would operate as a team under the leadership of a program coordinator from
DNAPVS; and (ii) the resources and logistical support so that outreach workers
will return to work in their communities to serve a catalytic role in
integrating local communities in park management. Indigenous communities in
the surrounding areas and indigenous group associations have been identified
to participate in this program.
13.   Alternative Management of Natural Resources in Buffer Zones
(US$0.1 million). It would include: (a) evaluation of the economic
importance of natural resources in the protected areas, and recompilation of
traditional knowledge; and (b) development of proposals for pilot projects of
species management and in situ conservation of germplasm.
(a)   Evaluation of the Economic Importance of Natural Resources in the
Protected Areas, and Recompilation of Traditional Knowledge: Local
inhabitants inside or adjacent to the protected areas exploit a large number
of species for their own consumption or marketing. Over-exploitation puts in
danger the survival of some of these species, while at the same time
jeopardizing the economic interests of those who depend on them. The project
would fund a study to evaluate the economic potential of resources within the
protected areas and the possibilities of establishing programs that would be
low impacting on biodiversity, while producing benefits on a sustainable basis
to the people living in the area. The study would also produce proposals for
alternative sources of income for these communities. The study would gather
traditional knowledge, especially concerning endangered species. This
knowledge would be complemented with an extensive literature review. After
these data have been analyzed, resource exploitation in protected areas will
be discussed with the local communities. A report would be prepared that would
become the working document for subsequent activities in this program.
(b) Development of Proposals for Pilot Projects of Species Management
and In Situ Conservation of Germplasm: The project would fund the development
of proposals for the sustainable management and use of promising species,
including the prerequisite ecological studies to ascertain viable harvesting
levels. Funding for the implementation of these studies will come from other
sources.



8
14.   Develoa ent of Strateaiex for Long Term Fundina of Protected Areas
(US$.O1 million). In the foreseeable future, the GOB will not be able to
allocate sufficient national funds to support the management of Bolivia's
globally important protected areas. Thus, it is necessary to develop a
strategy to seek broad based donor support to fund these areas for the next
decades. While the proposed operation will cover recurrent expenditures
associated with the protection of designated areas on a declining basis, the
GOB is seeking donor support to establish a trust fund to take over these
expenditures on an increasing basis starting with the third year of project
implementation. FONAMA has started work in designing the trust fund, and the
Dutch Government is considering to provide initial support of around
US$5.0 million equivalent. The establishment and funding of the trust fund
would be a condition of effectiveness. In addition, the project would fund a
study to evaluate the potential of other revenue sources (fees for ecotourism,
taxes for uses derived from the system including renewable natural resources)
for long term management of protected areas. It will also make policy
recommendations and draft an action plan to pursue these options.
15.   Monitorina and Evaluation (US$O.1 million).  For each protected area
supported under the proposed operation an annual report will be prepared on
"Results and Accomplishments". It will give an overview of the concrete
actions such as training, community participation, infrastructure development,
administrative and technical or planning bottlenecks. It will thus provide
feedback necessary to improve the plans for the next round of planning. The
Activity Table and the Implementation Schedule (see Annexes IV and V) will
provide guidance regarding performance and implementation indicators. Data
from these evaluations will provide inputs into the annual and mid-term
reviews to be carried out jointly by the Bank and FONAMA and which will be
broader in scope (see para. 18 below). The design of the management plans
also includes annual monitoring and evaluation exercises with emphasis on
biodiversity conservation and community participation in managing and
protecting selected areas (see Annex VI).
16.   Administrative SuD ort to the Proiect Coordinating Unit (PCU) in FONAMA
(US$0.8 million). Support will be provided to the PCU including personnel and
operating expenditures for managing and coordinating the execution of the
project. It will also provide financing for a procurement agent and an
external auditor.
Lessons Learned from Past IDA Involvement
17.   As the Eastern Lowlands project with important environmental components
is still at its initial stage of implementation, it is too early to draw any
lessons from it. However, general lessons of experience from implementing
investment and free-standing technical assistance projects in Bolivia, point
to the following constraints: (i) implementation delays caused by complexity
of project design, inadequate supervision and weak project management; (ii)
political patronage in the procurement of consultants; (iii) unsustainable
institutional development due to lack of permanence in the civil service;
(iv) absence of participation of the affected communities in project design;
and (v) lack of coordination and coherence in public investments and
expenditures. In designing the proposed operation, the above lessons have



9
been taken into account by: (i) reaching up-front agreement with the
Government to include SENMA in the first phase of the ongoing civil service
reform program, whereby key positions will be retained by receiving the needed
support; (ii) establishing a trust fund for covering recurrent expenditures
for the management and protection of threat-ened ecosystems; (iii) providing
wide public and private participation in the permanent planning process
incorporated in the ZAP; (iv) involving community groups in the planning and
implementation process; (v) incorporating training programs for SENMA's staff;
(vi) reviewing FONAMA's annual investment program and SENMA's annual work
program to ensure good donor coordination and coherence of activities in
biodiversity as well as other environmental areas which could directly or
indirectly affect either buffer zones or parks; and (vii) providing strong
supervision support through a separate agreement with the Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC) for the financing of a consultant to supervise the project
out of the Bank's Resident Office in La Paz.
Imolementation Arrancements. Sustainability. and Monitoring
18.   Implementation Arrangements.  While FONAMA will have the overall
responsibility for managing and coordinating the implementation of this
project, SENMA's Directorate of Protected Areas will be responsible for its
implementation. As a condition of effectiveness, an agreement will be signed
between the GOB and FONAMA transferring the funds and defining the use of
funds and project management and implementation and reporting
responsibilities. The Director of the Department and two technical
coordinators are already in place. Further support will be provided for a
training coordinator, a control and enforcement coordinator, a management plan
expert and an information systems expert. TORs for these experts have been
approved. Consultants will also be provided as needed. Several environmental
NGOs and local community groups are to be involved in the implementation of
the various subcomponents. This will occur at the planning level by involving
community groups to provide input into the management plans, and most
importantly at the management level by the hiring of local people from the
community to serve as managers, interpreters, and park guards. The case of
the BENI Biosphere Reserve demonstrates a successful experiment where the
Indigenous Bolivian Institute involved indigenous groups to assist in the
management of the area.
19.   Sustainabilitv.  The proposed project supports simultaneously several
activities (institutional strengthening, training, management plans,
information systems, alternative management systems, environmental education
and extension, and infrastructure) which are intended to strengthen Bolivia's
efforts in biodiversity protection and natural resources management during and
after project completion. The project's innovative approach in linking
biodiversity conservation, and sustainable resource management with wide
community participation, and the establishment of a trust fund to cover
recurrent expenditures associated with the protection of parks, would further
ensure sustainability of project benefits.
20.   Monitoring and Evaluation.  A contractual arrangement between FONAMA and
SENMA would define implementation responsibilities and reporting requirements.



10
The Protected Areas Department of SENMA will be reporting to FONAMA on project
progress every three months, at which time FONAMA will have the option to call
a meeting and discuss problems indicated in the progress reports. FONAMA will
report to the Bank every six months on the project implementation status,
identifying problems and action taken. Monitoring and implementation
indicators provided in annexes IV and V will be used to monitor and evaluate
project progress. Monitoring and evaluation indicators have also been built
into the management plans. Qualitative indicators will also be used in the
evaluation and monitoring process such as biodiversity protection,
institutional strengthening, community participation in the design of plans to
protect the parks as well as participation in the actual management and
protection of parks, the extent to which laws and regulations are being
implemented, and FONAMA's progress in financing the Trust Fund. The
Information, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of DNAPVS will assist in this
process. Moreover the Bank in cooperation with FONAMA will carry out reviews
annually including a mid-term review to monitor and evaluate project progress.
Approximately US$0.6 million will be provided by SDC for supervision support
to monitor and evaluate closely project implementation under a separate
agreement between the Government of Switzerland and the Bank which does not
form part of total project costs. The monitoring and evaluation component,
for which US$100,000 have been allocated, will provide some technical inputs
from each park to the monitoring and evaluation exercises.
21.   Over time, most management responsibilities are expected to be assumed
by departmental governments including the SEDEMAs (SENMA's regional offices).
SENMA's Directorate of Protected Areas will then revert to its long-term
planning support role, ensuring the maintenance of national protected area
management standards, identifying possible new areas for inclusion in the
system, providing technical guidance to managers, and assisting in staff
training. A timeframe for establishing the SEDEMAs was discussed during
negotiations. Two SEDEMAs are expected to be established during the next year
in departments with important environmental issues. The timing for the
establishment of the remaining seven has not yet been determined.
Proiect Cost, Financing, Procurement, Accounting, Auditing, Reporting
Reauirements and Disbursements
22.   Proiect Cost and Financina.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$8.4 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of
US$1.95 million. The base cost is estimated at US$7.57 million equivalent
with total contingencies calculated at US$0.45 million. The GET is expected
to finance US$4.5 million equivalent and SDC SwF 5.2 million. As a condition
of effectiveness, it is required that the Grant Agreement to be signed between
the GOB and SDC be effective and that satisfactory arrangements for passing
the grant funds to FONAMA be made by the GOB. Project costs by component and
the financing plan are summarized in Schedule A. Detailed project costs are
shown in Tables 1 and 2.
23.   Procurement.  FONAMA, as the executing agency, will be responsible for
all procurement under the project in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Based on FONAMA's legal statutes, all contracts under US$50,000 will be
procured by FONAMA. A procurement agent will be contracted to procure



11
contracts over US$50,000. Sample bidding documents to be used by both FONAMA
and the external procurement agency, were approved during negotiations. All
ICB contracts and LCB contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank in
accordance with Bank\IDA procurement guidelines (May 1992). This represents
53% of goods and civil works to be financed under the Grant. The Bank would
review other procurement documentation selectively during supervision
missions. FONAMA will retain all procurement documentation for review by the
Bank. Schedule B summarizes procurement arrangements under the project.
24.   Goods, including vehicles, computers, furnishings, equipment and
materials represent about thirteen percent of total project costs. To the
extent possible, contracts for goods would be grouped to allow procurement of
larger packages. Packages of four wheel drive vehicles valued at US$100,000
equivalent or above (amounting in total to US$0.25 million) will be procured
following ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local
competitive bidding procedures will be used to purchase motorcycles valued in
total at US$49,000. Boats and canoes, valued at US$50,000 will be procured
through international shopping procedures in view of the extremely limited
number of local suppliers and small size of the contract(s). Other vehicles,
including bicycles and horses, will be procured following local shopping
procedures up to an aggregate limit of US$12,000. Contracts for equipment and
materials, including personal computers, valued between US$25,000 and
US$100,000 and not exceeding US$320,000 in aggregate will be awarded under LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Field and camping equipment valued at
US$130,000 will be procured through international shopping procedures due to
the limited number of local suppliers and small size of the contract(s).
Contracts for miscellaneous items of equipment and materials valued below
US$25,000 and not exceeding US$60,000 in aggregate will be awarded through
local shopping procedures. Furnishings will be purchased in annual packages
not expected to exceed US$82,000 in any year. Procurement of furnishings will
be done through local competitive bidding for packages valued above US$25,000
but below US$100,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$230,000. For packages of
furnishings under US$25,000, local shopping procedures will be used, not to
exceed an aggregate amount of US$21,000.
25.   Estimated civil works contracts represent eight percent of total project
costs. Procurement of civil works estimated to cost each US$50,000 equivalent
or more but less than US$500,000 would follow LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Maximum civil works contract size is not expected to exceed US$500,000.
Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each but in
aggregate not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of
price quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors.
26.   Procurement of consulting services will follow the August 1981 Bank/IDA
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants including Bank prior review of all
contracts. All supporting documentation for these contracts will be available
at FONAMA for Bank inspection.
27.   Accounts and Audits.  FONAMA as the project coordinating agency would
maintain accounts for all expenditures funded under the proposed operation.
Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts for project execution.
Project accounts and procurement procedures would be audited annually by



12
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank including audits of Statement of
Expenditures and of the Special Account. The audit reports would be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months following the end of the Government's
fiscal year. TORs for an auditing firm and a procurement agent were presented
to the bank during negotiations and were approved. Two Special Accounts would
be opened in the Central Bank; one for the GET Grant with an initial deposit
of US$400,000 and one for the SDC Grant with an initial deposit of SwF
400,000.
28.   Disbursements.  The proposed grant would be disbursed over a six year
period. GET and SDC funds would disburse 100% against eligible expenditures
for salaries, consultants, equipment, civil works, administrative costs,
technical assistance and training. Incremental recurrent expenditures would
be covered on a declining basis starting at 100% the first and second years,
70% the third, 50% the fourth, and 30% the fifth year. The Trust Fund,
expected to be established with donor support, would take over starting year
three to cover incremental recurrent expenditures on an increasing basis. The
Bank would administer the SDC funds (US$3.9 million) which would be disbursed
jointly by the Bank at a ratio of 54/46. Grant funds would be disbursed
against SOEs for consultant services whose contract value would be below
US$15,000, contracts for goods valued below US$50,000, civil works contracts
valued below US$100,000 and for all incremental salaries and all operating
costs. All supporting documentation would be maintained at FONAMA and would
be available for review upon request by the Bank. The project is expected to
be completed by December 30. 1997. The closing date would be June 30, 1998.
Environmental Aspects
29.   No negative environmental impacts are expected under this operation.
The management plan for each protected area would ensure that all activities
to be carried out under the project would be consistent with the corresponding
management plan, whose primary objective is to protect the area's
biodiversity.
Rationale for GET Funding
30.   The GET would serve a catalytic role in providing Bolivia with the
resources to develop a rational structure for managing its protected areas,
and will serve to leverage additional resources to finance a comprehensive
protected areas management system. Moreover, this project is innovative in
that the network of protected areas to be supported will include some highly
diverse managed systems. This applies particularly to the territories of
indigenous communities which have recently received legal recognition and
represent an outstanding opportunity to test the link between biodiversity
conservation, sustainable resource management and the legalization of
indigenous property rights. Efforts will be made to help promote existing
community-based conservation and extractive reserve programs to help build a
larger conservation program. If successful, this will serve as a model of how
conservation can be fostered by local community involvement and a two-way flow
of information that improves existing management techniques.



13
Benefits and Risks
31.   The main objective of the proposed project would be to protect 8 areas
with biodiversity of global importance. These areas contain animal and plant
species, the disappearance of which would be an important global loss. The
project would also demonstrate balancing natural resource exploitation and
conservation by putting heavy emphasis on community participation of the
surrounding areas in the management and protection of these areas. Viable
land uses will be identified, which will be compatible with the preservation
of endangered ecosystems. In addition, the project would strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Government to consolidate and manage the SNAP.
It has already effectively helped to catalyze international donor support to
protected areas. Further effective mobilization of such funding would be
strengthened by the establishment of an environmental policy, institutional
and legal framework supported under the parallel IDA Environmental Technical
Assistance Project.
32.   Potential risks are bottlenecks in project implementation due to a lack
of trained Bolivians at higher technical and scientific levels. Such
specialists will be needed for the coordination of the SNAP, the
administration of individual protected areas and the preparation of
diagnostics and management plans. This temporary lack of trained local
personnel will be filled by the contracting of international specialists, when
local personnel cannot be located. However, in order to assure efficient
project management after the contracts are completed, DNAPVS counterparts will
be assigned to each international specialist and emphasis will be placed on
training. Interactive workshops for Bolivian technicians will be a key
component of this project. The project will implement an accelerated training
program for SNAP personnel. The participatory approach that is envisaged
throughout the planning and implementation process might cause conflicts that
could affect smooth project implementation. This potential risk will be
mitigated by the substantial strengthening of the DNAPVS and the competence of
its Director. Staff turnover, which is frequent in the Bolivian context, is
likely to cause disruption to project implementation. A legal covenant
providing that changes in SENMA's and FONAMA's key staff will need prior Bank
consultation, and the inclusion of SENMA in the first phase of the civil
service reform program would mitigate this risk. Another risk is that the
financing of recurrent expenditures by the Trust Fund might be delayed if fund
raising does not proceed as expected. To mitigate this risk, commitments are
required before Project effectiveness and alternative sources of revenue would
be pursued.
Agreements Reached and Recommendation
33.   During negotiations agreements were reached on:  (i) the organizational
structure of SENMA not to be changed without prior consultation with the Bank;
(ii) key positions in SENMA and FONAMA remaining staffed with individuals with
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank; (iii) key staff
positions in FONAMA and SENMA supported under the proposed operation not to be
changed without prior consultation with the Bank; (iv) the time frame for the
training programs and the completion of studies and follow-up actions;
(v) performance targets, implementation indicators, annual and mid-term



14
reviews; (vi) SENMA submitting draft laws and regulations for the Bank's
review to ensure that appropriate monitoring and compliance mechanisms are
incorporated; (vii) FONAMA submitting its annual investment program and its
consolidated budget to the Bank for review; (viii) SENMA submitting to the
Bank for review annually its work program and its consolidated budget;
(ix) SENMA submitting draft management plans for the Bank's review and
approval; (x) FONAMA submitting a progress report on project implementation
every six months; (xi) reporting, procurement and audit requirements;
(xii) the timeframe for establishing the SEDEMAS; (xiii) arrangements and a
timeframe for the establishment and financing of the Trust Fund to generate
funds sufficient to cover recurrent expenditures; and (xiv) a timeframe for
the phasing out of GET coverage of recurrent expenditures starting at 70% in
year three, 50% year four, 30% year five and zero thereafter.
34.   The following documents were also reviewed during negotiations and are
now satisfactory: the Estatutos Organicos of SENMA and FONAMA, the Operations
Manual of FONAMA, FONAMA's investment plan, SENMA'B three-year Action Plan,
TORs for the procurement expert, the external auditor and other consultants.
35.   As conditions of effectiveness:  (i) the Estatutos Organicos of SENMA
and FONAMA would have been duly enacted and the Operations Manual of FONAMA
would have been approved by its Board; (ii) the agreement to be entered into
between Government and FONAMA has been duly signed; (iii) FONAMA would have
signed a contract with a procurement agent under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) the GOB would have opened up and secured
contributions of an aggregate minimum amount of US$5 million equivalent to
finance a trust fund to cover recurrent expenditures; and (v) all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the SDC Grant Agreement, except the
effectiveness of the GET Agreement, have been fulfilled.



15
Schedule A
SOLIVA: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Component                                          Local       Foreign       Total
....      - ........-.-... -------------------- -USS miLlion)-----------
A. Support for the Implementation of the                1.40        0.49         1.89
National System of Protected Areas (SNAP)
B. Establishment of Priority Protected Areas            3.44        1.27         4.71
C. Alternative Management of Natural Resources          0.07        0.06         0.13
in Suffer Zones
0. Strategies for Long-Term Funding of                  0.00        0.01         0.01
Protected Areas
E. Monitoring and Evaluation                            0.02        0.08         0.10
F. Support for Project Implementation
nd Supervision                                       0.78        0.02         0.80
G. Unatlocated                                          0.13        0.13         0.26
TOTAL BASE COST                                         5.84        2.06         7.90
Contingencies
i. Physical         0.07         0.03        0.10
ii. Price            0.29         0.07        0.35
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                      6.20        2.15         8.35
FINANCING PLAN
Local       Foreign      Total
------------------------------------------------------ (USS miLlion)-----.-----
GET                                                     3.34        1.16         4.50
SOC                                                     2.85        1.00         3.85
TOTAL                                                   6.19        2.16         8.35



16
Page 1 of 3
BOLIVIA: 8IOOIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
SLPUYRT Of PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRAMNGEMNTS
(In USS ftllon)
Procurement Method
IC8     LCB   Other/a   N.A.   Total
Project Element
1. Clvil Works                                                                   0.45    0.20 /b          0.65
2. Goods
a) Equipment and Materials/c                                                  0.32    0.19 /a          0.51
/d
b) Furnishings                                                                0.23    0.02             0.25
/f
c) Vehicles/g                                                        0.25    0.05    0.06              0.36
3. Technical Assistance
a) Consultants                                                                        2.44             2.44
--Management plans, studies,
procurement and auditing services
b) Training                                                                           0.44             0.44
4. Operational Support/h                                                                         3.70    3.70
TOTAL                                                                0.25    1.05    3.35    3.70    8.35
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
.------- Fiscal Yea.------. --------------
93      94      95       96      97       98
-C---   -- ----        (USS million)----------
AnnuaL                                                          0.74    2.25    2.32    1.58    0.83    0.64
CumTulative                                                     0.74    2."      5.31    6.88    7.71    8.35



17                                       Schodute 
Page 2 of 3
/a Includes procurement of technicaL assistance services according to Bank Guidelines for
contracting consultants. For goods and civil works "Other" refers to procurement by
local or international shopping procedures in accordance to Bank Guidelines.
/b Includes clearing trails, making campsites, leveling/cutting brush from airstrips and
other minor works to be supervised by park personnel using Local labor; materials
used in these works will be procured through local shopping procedures.
/c Includes radios, camping and field equipment, basic medical supplies, tools, saddles,
office equipnent, paper goods and printed materials, and computers (2).
/d LCS procedures will be used for procurement of paper goods (base cost USS49,160), uniforms
(USS69,440), tools (USS46,500) and computers (USS27,000). Purchase and installation of radio
systems is scheduled over a four-year period (total base cost USS105,500 to be
procured in annual lots through LC8.
/e Local shopping will be applied to equipment and materials contracts under USS25,000 (medical supplies,
paper goods and printed material, saddles minor office equipment, park signs). The project includes
USS126,810 (base cost) in field and camping equipment for park personnel. In view of the limited
number of suppliers (no local suppliers) for this types of equipment and an implementation
schedule spread over five years (with purchases not exceeding USS30,000 in any one year)
international shopping procedures will be used following Bank Guidelines.
!f Due to the phased in nature of civil works in the protected areas, basic furnishings will be
purchased in annual lots through LC8.
/g Vehicles include: Jeeps (9) under IC8, motorcycles (18) under LCB, boats/canoes (10)
through internationaL shopping, bicycles (6) and horses (37) through local shopping.
/h Expenses including incremental salaries and operating expenses (insurance, travel, per diems,
maintenance, communications, etc.) of the protected areas, the DNVSAP, and of the Project
Coordinating Unit.



18
Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
SUKARY OF PROPED PROaJRSENT ARRANGE3ITS: GOS AND CIVIL UXS
Expenditure                    Contract                Aggregate        Procurement            Expected
Category                       VaLue (USS)             Limit            Method                 Amount
______ _____ _____ _____ __    ___ _____ _____ ____ (US$)                         CUSS)
Civil Works                    Under 50,000            250,000          Local Shopping         200,000
Over 50,000            500,000           LCB                   452,000
Vehicles:
Jeeps (9)                     Over 100,000            .....             [CS                   252,000
Motorcycles (18)              Under 100,000                .           LC8                     49,000
Boats/Canoes (10)             Under 100,000                            International           50,000
I Shopping             _______
Bicycles (6)                  Under 25,000             12,000          LocaL                   12,000
Horses (37)                                                      _        Shopping
Furnishings                    Under 25,000             21,000          LocaL                   21,000
__Shopping
____________________________  25,000-100,000      230,000          LC3                   229,0001
Equipment/Materials            Under 25,000            190,000          Local                   57,00O
(combined         Shopping
Local and
internationall
shopping)
Under 25,000           190,000           InternationaL         130,000
(combined         Shopping             (Field &
local and                             Catrping
internationat               ~~~equipment)
_                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~shopping)  lIqipet
25,000-100,000         320,000          LCB                    320,000O
1 Due to the phased in nature of civil works in the protected areas, basic
furnishings will be purchased in annual lots (not exceeding a maximum of
US$80,000) through local competitive bidding.
2 Includes basic medical kits, printed materials and manuals, saddles, minor
software, photocopier, fax machine, and signs for protected areas.
3 Includes personal computers, paper supplies, uniforms for park guards,
tools,  and  radio  equipment.   The  installation  of the  radio  equipment  (base
cost: USS105,500) will be staggered over four years, with annual lots procured
through LCB.



19
Schedule C
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Timetable of Rxv Progict Processina Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:               18 months
(b)  Prepared by:                        National Environmental Secretariat
and National Fund for the Environment
with IDA assistance, UNDP, SDC.
(c)  First IDA mission:                  April 1991
(d)  Appraisal Departure:                April 1992
(e)  Negotiations:                        September 1992
(f)  Approval Date:                      November 1992
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       June 1993



20
Schedule D
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
A.  STATL%ZNT 0F3A M    LOANS AND IDA CR!DZTS IN BOLrVA, (as of June 30, 1992)
_- - - -_ _    __  -  - -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- --____- -- -__-- _
Amonat (lass
cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                      -C--      ___--  Undis-
Number       Year   Borrower          Purpose            Bank       IDA.    bu=sed
16 Loans and 22 Credits Closed                            274.78   301.30        0.13
18090     l198   Bolivia  Financial Mg-. (PrMO).                 11.50       0.38
16180      1987  Bolivia  Power Se ctor Rehab                     6.8a       0.55
18280      1987  BalivLia  Reconstr. Import Cr. Ir               47.10       3.03
18420      1988  BoLLiLa  La Paz Municipal Devt                  15.00       2.86
19770      1989  BolivLa  Econ Mgt Strength Oyn                   9.70       3.13
20120      1989  BoLivIa  Export Cor=Ldors                       37.00      22.82
20130      1989  Bolivia  Mining Sector                          35.00      32.53
20920      1990  BoLivia  Integrated Health D-vt                 20.00      17.59
21190       1990  Bolivia  Eastern LowLands                      35.00      33.42
21270      1990  Bolivia  Social Invest't Fund                   20.00      19.50
21340      1990  Bolivia  Private Enterprise Devt                16.10      16.20
19253 (S)  1991  Bolivia  Financial Sector - C                   14.50       0.70
21870      1991  Bolivia  Water Supply a Sewerage                3s.00      33.16
22160      1991  Bolivia  Technology Dew't                       21.00      19.69
22790      1991  Bolivia  PubLic Flnanclal Hgt ZI                11.30      10.55
22980 (S)  1992  Bolivia  Structural Adjustment Credit           40.00      26.12
22980 (S)  1992  BoLivia  St-uctural Adjustment Credit           10.40      11.26
23220       1992  Bolivia  Agro Export Dev Prog                  22.50      23.67
239s5       1992  BoLivia  Road Maintenance                      80.00      83.55
487.90    360.84
TOTAL                                 274.78   789.20
of which repaid                     168.06    13.18
Total held bv Bank L IDA              106.72   776.02
Amount sold                             0.05
Of which repaid                       0.05
Total Undisbursed                                         360.84
B.  STAT2'X,T OF  .TC 1rrZSTr ZN-S (as of June 30, 1992)
-----------_--  _------------- -----------  ---- -- --------------_------ -----__-  -- _-
Loan    Equity    Total
(in mlLlions ao U.S. dollars)
Total gross commitments                                    73.05    11.62       84.67
Less cancellations, te-ninations,
repayments, and sales                                    11.6a      1.20     12.88
TotaL commitments ncw held by 1-Ic                         61.36    10.42       71.79
TotaL undisbursed                                          40.32      2.62      42.95



21
Table 1
BOLIVA: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
Component                                                            Local  Foreign  Total
--------------------------------------------..--------.-.-...------.----..(USS million)-----
A. Support for the ImpLementation of the NationaL
System of Protected Areas (SNAP) - USS1.89 milLion
1. Institutional Support to DNAVPS                                  0.27    0.04    0.31
2. Information System for SNAP                                      0.26    0.12    0.38
3. ConsoLidation of SNAP                                            0.26    0.26    0.51
4. Training of Protected Area Personnel                             0.51    0.03    0.54
5. SNAP Controt and Enforcement Program                             0.11    0.04    0.15
R. Establishment of Priority Protected Areas - US$4.71 million
1. Management Ptans Poticies and Methodologies                      0.02    0.11    0.13
2. Support to Key Existing Protected Areas                          2.47    0.81    3.28
3. Establishment of Two New Protected Areas                         0.69    0.35    1.04
4. Environmentat Education and Extension                            0.26    0.00    0.26
Around Protected Areas
C. Alternative Management of Natural Resources in Buffer Zones - USS0.13 mIllion
1. Evaluation of Economic inportance and
Recompilation of Traditional Knowledge                           0.06    0.00    0.07
2. Proposals for Pilot Projects of Species Management
and In Situ Conservation of GermpLasm                            0.01    0.06    0.06
0. Strategies for Long-Term Funding of Protected
Areas - USSO.01 miLlion                                             0.00    0.01    0.01
E. Monitoring end Evaluation - USSO.10 million                         0.02    0.08    0.10
F. Support for Project ImpLementation and Supervision - US$0.80 million
1. Support to PIU/FONAMA                                            0.47    0.02    0.49
2. Project Implementation Services: Procurement/Auditing            0.31    0.00    0.31
G. Unallocated - USS0.26 million                                       0.13    0.13    0.26
TOTAL BASE COST                                                        5.84    2.06    7.90
Contingencies
i. Physical      0.07    0.03    0.10
Ii. Price        0.29    0.07    0.35
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                     6.20    2.15    8.35



22
Table 2
BOLIVA: BICOIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF INVESTMENT AND RECURRENT COSTS
Component                                       Investment  Recurrent     Total
--------------C-------'''--'-'''-'-'-'-''  -----------  --(USS mittion).----------
A. Support for the Implementation of the National
System of Protected Areas (SNAP) - US$1.89 million
1. InstitutionaL Support to DNAVPS                 0.04        0.28        0.31
2. Information System for SNAP                     0.23        0.15        0.38
3. Consolidation of SNAP                           0.51        0.00        0.51
4. Training of Protected Area Personnel            0.48        0.06        0.54
5. SNAP Control and Enforcement Program            0.03        0.11        0.15
B. Establishment of Priority Protected Areas - USS4.71 million
1. Management Plans: Policies/Methodologies        0.13        0.00        0.13
2. Support to Key Existing Protected Areas         1.42        1.86        3.28
3. Establishment of Two New Protected Areas        0.64        0.40        1.04
4. Envirornental Education and Extension           0.26        0.00        0.26
Around Protected Areas
C. Alternative Management of NaturaL Resources in Buffer Zones - USS0.13  fillion
1. Evaluation of Economic Importance and
Recompilation of Traditional Knowledge          0.07        0.00        0.07
2. Proposals for Pilot Projects of Species Management
and In Situ Conservation of Germplasm           0.06        0.00        0.06
D. Strategies for Long-Term Funding of Protected
Areas - USSO.01 million                            0.01        0.00        0.01
E. Monitoring and Evaluation - USSO.10 million        0.10        0.00        0.10
F. Support for Project Implementation and Supervision - USS0.80 million
1. Support to PIU                                  0.49        0.00        0.49
2. Project lmplementation Services:                0.31        0.00        0.31
G. Unallocated - USS0.26 million                      0.26        0.00        0.26
5.04        2.86        7.90
TOTAL BASE COST
Contingencies
i. Physical          0.10        0.00        0.10
{i. Price            0.00        0.35        0.35
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                    5.14        3.21        6.35



23
FIGURE I: CATEGORIES OF PROTECTED AREAS AND THEIR
CORRESPONDING CONSERVATION OBJECTIVES
Primary Conservation Objectives
Mational I IfoLogical  Fauna    Sanctuary  Forest
| Park    Station    Reserve  I       | Reserve
Maintain sample ecosystem in
natural state                      1        1         3         3       3
Maintain ecological diversity
and environmental regulation       1        1         2         1       3
Conserve genetic resources           1         1         1        1       x
Provide education, research,
and environmental monitoring       1        2         3         3       3
Conserve watershed condition         3         3         2        2       2
Control erosion sedimentation;
protect downstream
investments                       2         2         3         3       3
Produce protein and animal
products from wildlife;
permit sport hunting and
fishing                             x        x          2        2       3
Provide recreation and tourism
services                           2        2         x         x       x
Produce timber, forage, or
extractive products on
sustained yield basis               x        x          2        3        1
Protect sites and objects of
cultural and archeological
heritage                           1        2         x         3       x
Protect scenic beauty and open
space                              1        3          3        3       x
Maintain open options; manage
flexibly; permit multiple
use                                x         2         2        2        1
Stimulate rational,
sustainable use of marginal
areas and rural development         1        2          2        3        1
NOTE: 1     Primary objective for management of area and resources.
2 -   Not necessarily primary, but always included as an important objective.
3 =   Included as an objective where applicable and whenever resources and
other management objectives permit.
x =   Not Applicable
Source:     As Adapted to Bolivia from International Union for the Conservation of
Nature (IUCN).



24
rFTGUR  IT:  PROTCTED ARA3S TO BE SXJPPORI2D CM    T   PROPOSZD OPERATO1f
ECOSYSTEM ANALYSIS FOR PROTE=TON AD D OP
NXAERCAL VALUE OF           MRAL  T=ESTtIAL  AQUATIC        GE>o4RPHoLO4CC  UNIQUE
ECOSYSTM QLT               REGICS   ESySTmS   EI=YSTM4S   PMATKS         VALUES
BASED ON SPECIES              4  ' 
DIVERASITY, QOLITY OF:    U    1 b
WILDLIZ-T  EAIZTPT, SIZE z - b            Id  . 4                              4
OF ARZA, AND rMAN                     a:
Dr5STURBANCE.      ,1 bu    E                                    U t4
1 -~~~~~~~~~~~00- 
I - INSIGNIFICANT                     no  0  oMs        c
2- SZGNT:FICA.YT        _       oa  a     0, o4 2 :a s
3-' GOOD                                              O m          o
4    V VRY GOOD               S o      4o4140
140  0  e uoI                     0 a..   ~
S   EXCELLENT      V                                                          a S
6 - BEST IN COUNTRY.             > 3  h  b C;        XI=
DEVOPMNT PRIORITY
CARRASCO NATION.L PARK    5533                         5           5        564
(SC)
AMB3ORO NATIONAL PARK       555 5       2             3            5        544
INO  LMP F  MERCADO             55                    54S          5        55.3
N'ATIONAL PARK (4)
BErN BrOLOGrcAL
STATION (3)                  4         5  3         554           4         445
EDUARDO AVAROA (SA)         5                      5 6          5 5         555
ULLA ULLA N.P. (3B)         S5                     554            5         555
EL CHACO (58)                    3     5 6          .44           3         565
El; !tADIDr (11             55 55    5               35           4         654
Sources:    COC, 1987.  Evaluacidn vrelLminar de la conservacidn de lce recurses
vivos de la Provncia Sud Lioez, Potosi. Con *szecial referencia a la
Reserva de fauna andina -Eduardo Avaroa. SarLe T4cnica No. 2. La Paz,
Bolivia.
CDC, 1989. EvaluacLdn del estado actual del SLstema Naclonal de
Areas ProtecLdas. CDC/IT/Ol8/89.
COC, 1991. EstratecLa vara et Oesarrollo del SLstema Nacional do Areas
Protecidas de Bolivia (SNAP).  Propuesta elaborada para LIDEMA por el
COC. CDC/PRO/91. Barrador.



25
Kourceut    Conservation International, 1990.  Aacid iolpcical Assessment
(cont.)     of Northern La Paz Deoartment. Bolivia.
Illenberg, H. 1981. Maps de lan Zooregiones de Bolivia. Deparrollar sin
dgstruir. Instituto de Zoologla, UMBA, La Paz, Bolivia.



26
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Descriotion of Hanagement Zones to be Incorporated into the Manacement Plans
1.    To pursue established management objectives, the designated established
or proposed areas will be divided into management zones to provide protection
of the natural resources and to eliminate potential conflicts in the use of
the resources. The zoning system will take into account the management and
control necessary in each zone and will specify the uses and installations
permitted or necessary. Recommendations are based on existing information and
may be modified based on future information.
(i)   Wilderness Zone
The wilderness zone consists of areas where disturbance by man has been
relatively minimal, where important wildlife habitat warrants considerable
protection, and where unique species of flora, fauna, or natural phenomena
exist. The general management objectives are to preserve the natural
environment and assemblage of habitats and at the same time allow for
scientlfic studies, environmental education and recreation of a primitive
type. The wilderness zone should, in general, represent the major part of the
protected area. General access will be permitted on designated trails only.
Cutting of vegetation will not be permitted. Camping will be allowed only in
designated sites.
(ii) Intensive Use Zone (Infrastructure Zone)
This zone contains resources that can withstand heavy recreational activities
and moderate slopes that can be developed for intensive visitor use. This
zone will include the area where the Visitor and Welcome Centers are proposed.
Where appropriate, an information booth will provide literature and self-
guiding environmental education trail brochures and descriptions of the varied
flora and fauna. The parking area and any proposed administration facilities
would be in this area. The design and construction of all facilities will be
harmonized with existing historical conditions. All facilities will be
designed, constructed, and maintained with adequate drainage and sewage
facilities, to avoid pollution of the area. Commercial concessions will be
restricted to boat tours, recreational equipment rentals, handicraft sales and
other compatible activities controlled and regulated by the Park
Administration.
(iii) Recuperation Zone
This zone consists of those areas in the park that have been altered by the
practices of man. Once these areas have been restored to natural forest they
will be reassigned to the appropriate zone based on need. The general
objective is to stop degradation of the resource and bring about the



27
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
restoration of the area to forest.  This zone consists of areas of degraded
forest due to exploitation. Conservation works necessary to restore the land
to desired conditions will be permitted. Reforestation with native species
will be encouraged. Public use will be restricted until the area has a proper
forest canopy.
(iv) Buffer Zone
Zones where uses are limited to activities such as extraction on a sustained
yield basis of wildlife, fruits and nuts, and wood products. Movement by the
public may be limited to authorized sections and tracks. In the case of
indigenous reserves, the indigenous peoples themselves will control the
movement of people, goods, and services. Buffer zones are generally out of
the protected area, and managed by the local communities. The DNAPVS may
propose activities which support the sustainable use of the areas, and do not
cause negative environmental impacts on the adjacent protected area. In a
buffer zone a continuation of all traditional activities may be allowed other
than those which are damaging to the environment, incompatible with the
protected area objectives, or restricted by regulations.
2.    Management Programs:  The following management programs will be
implemented:
(i)   Terrestrial Resource Management Program
Adequate protection and management of the resources of the protected areas
will include programs of maintenance of streambeds and springs, habitat
management, fire control, restoration of recuperation areas, and provision for
the enforcement of regulations.
(ii) Habitat and Wildlife Management
This program will ensure:
-   Protection of the forests and forested ecosystems, and planting
seedlings to encourage recuperation of areas designated to be brought
under forest cover.
-   Prevention of unauthorized cutting of forests for timber, charcoal or
other uses.
-   Prohibition of hunting or poaching.
-   Strict enforcement by Park Wardens of regulations relative to the
disturbance of birds and other wildlife and nesting and breeding birds
within the forests.
-   Education of the public to promote understanding of the need for
protection.



28
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
(iii) Fire Control Prooram
A program to prevent fire will include the prohibition of hiking or camping
during periods of severe drought until proper campsites and hiking trails are
constructed to ensure visitor safety.
(iv) Research Program
The riverine ecosystems and vegetation of the forest provide an excellent
laboratory for research. The Protected Area Administration will manage the
research program. Research by accredited scientists and their students may be
carried out in the park according to the following guidelines:
-   An application will state objectives of the research and the individuals
and institutions involved.
-   Collection of specimens will be allowed on a case-by-case basis. and kept
to a minimum.
-   Copies of records, reports, and publications of all research and studies
carried out in the area must be submitted to the Protected Area
Administration.
The following research and monitoring needs are essential to effective
management:
-   More precise inventories of plants and animals and the monitoring of
biological communities by means of plant and animal census.
-   Studies of dispersal, roosting habitats, sensitivity and food chains for
the bird species in the park.
-   Historical and archeological research of the area.
-   Visitor use and preference surveys to identify needs and how best to
respond to them.
3.    Enforcement of Protected Area Reculations
Regulations will be enforced by a staff of park guards and when appropriate
indigenous peoples trained in resource management and law enforcement
techniques.
Primary protection duties will include the following:
-   assistance to visitors
-   enforcement of regulations regarding protection of flora and fauna
-   patrols to ensure visitor safety
-   fire control



29
ANN1EX II
Page 1 of 9
BOLIVIA
BIOD IVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Justification of Protected Areas Recommended for Inclusion Within This Proiect
AMBORO NATIONAL PARK
Location, Size and Access: Located in the western section of the Department
of Santa Cruz the park has an extension of 630,000 ha with an altitudinal
range from 600-3,000 meters above sea level. Amboro is only about 50 km from
the city of Santa Cruz de la Sierra and access is excellent via two major
roads, though no good foot paths or drivable tracks into the park yet exist.
Outstanding Features: The park borders on Carrasco National Park in the
Department of Cochabamba. These parks together contain 1.2 million ha making
this one of the largest protected areas in Bolivia. Due to its altitudinal
range Amboro contains a wide variety of micro habitats; it also represents
the point where the Yungas, Chaco, and Amazon biogeographic provinces meet
which, amongst other characteristics, results in it having amongst the highest
diversity of bird species for a protected area in the world. Amboro is the
closest major park to a city in Bolivia, thus providing unparalleled
opportunities for environmental education and tourism. The park is scenically
outstanding.
Endemic, Important, or Endangered Species: Spectacled bear, jaguar, southern
helmeted currasow and other cracids, endemic red fronted and seven other macaw
species, 2S43 species of birds, and Z110 species of mammals.
This is one of the best known parks from the standpoint of biodiversity.
Management Problems: Serious problems exist due to colonization close to and
within the park boundary, as well as hunting and gold prospectors. Some human
settlements were made before park establishment and may prove difficult and/or
unwise to remove.
NGO's, Government, and Other Organizations: FAN (Friends of Nature
Foundation) with funding of US$362,700 from TNC (The Nature Conservancy) is
providing support under the "Parks and Peril" program for three years (ending
in 1994); SENMA-IDB are dedicating US$385,000 over three years (ending in
1993), and CDF (National Forest Service) is dedicating approximately
US$139,100 per year to cover mostly recurrent costs. Germany, under the
ongoing IDA Eastern Lowlands Project, is providing management training and
some field equipment.
Current Personnel and Infrastructure: 1 director, 1 chief park ranger, 20
assistant park rangers, and a grassroots/extension specialist. One small
ranger station and four more are in construction, three vehicles, five
motorcycles and five radios.



30
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
Immediate Administrative, Infrastructural and Other Needs: Management plan,
administrative staff, park rangers, training for personnel, infrastructure,
equipment, tourism program, solutions to colonization problem, assessment of
needs of Yuqui Indians if still extant in the park.
CARRASCO NATIONAL PARK
Location, Size and Access: Located in the Department of Cochabamba the park
has an extension of approximately 600,000 ha with an altitudinal range from
400-4630 meters above sea level. It is bordered by a major road between the
cities of Cochabamba and Santa Cruz de la Sierra.
Outstanding Features:  This scenic park borders on Amboro National Park in the
Department of Santa Cruz. These parks together contain 1.2 million ha making
this one of the largest protected areas in Bolivia and hence extremely
important for preserving complete ecosystems and maintaining viable
populations of large/wide ranging mammal species. While little is known
ecologically, due to its altitudinal range Carrasco encompasses 10 Holdridge
Life Zones, the most for any park in Bolivia. The park also contains
important tributaries of major rivers.
Endemic, Important, or Endangered Species: It contains endangered spectacled
bears (the Bolivian population of this flagship species is the largest in
South America), jaguar, and other mammals; as well as an extraordinarily high
diversity of birds, including oil birds, rivaling Amboro National Park.
Management Problems: Approximately 90 families live within and between 40,000
and 50,000 people live around the park. Many of these people cultivate coca,
and this and other agricultural practices have led to serious erosion
problems. Subsistence and commercial hunting and fishing are uncontrolled.
Government Groups: CDF is currently administering the park with some support
for specific tasks from CORDECO (The Cochabamba Regional Development
Corporation) and PDAR (USAID Alternative Development Program with the
principle aim of encouraging farmers to stop growing coca).
Current Personnel and Infrastructure: 1 forestry engineer, 1 forestry
technician, 1 agronomist technician, an accountant, 10 park rangers, and 2
chauffeurs. The park has one ranger station, an outstation and six radios.
Immediate Administrative, Infrastructural and Other Needs: Management plan
and training for personnel.
NOEL KEMPFF MERCADO NATIONAL PARK
Location, Size and Access: Located in NE Santa Cruz Department on the
Brazilian border the park has an extension of 706,000 ha, covering an
altitudinal range of 300-900 m above sea level, with a 10 km wide buffer zone
of 208,000 ha. The park is 700 km, by seasonally drivable roads, from the
nearest city, Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Year round terrestrial access exits to



31
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
the Park from Rondonia Brazil. There are airstrips at the Flor de Oro and
Mangabalito ranger stations. Plans exist to expand the Park, and there are
possibilities of establishing a bi-national Park with Brazil.
Outstanding Features: The park is dominated by an enormous mesa rising above
the lowland forest, drained by several dramatic waterfalls. The explorer
Colonel Fawcet's description of this formation inspired Conan Doyle's The Lost
World. The park is a meeting place between amazonian moist forest to the
north, cerrado to the east and tropical dry forest to the south. It contains
one of the largest ecologically intact piece of cerrado; this habitat, which
historically covered much of central Brazil, has been largely cleared for
agriculture. Preliminary studies of the moist tropical forest at the foot of
the mesa show high levels of biodiversity.
Endemic, Important, or Endangered Species: The mammal fauna includes giant
anteaters, primates (a 10 species), pampas deer, giant otters, maned wolves,
the almost unknown bush and small eared dogs, as well as jaguar. The avifauna
is extraordinarily diverse with at least 550 species, some of which are
endemic to the mesa. With a further 150 species estimated, the park contains
25% of avifaunal diversity in South America. In the rivers bordering the park
are Amazon river dolphins, turtles and a rich fish fauna. The park contains a
large number of endemic cerrado and campo rupestre plants, and recent studies
show many new species for Bolivia.
Management Problems: Uncontrolled commercial and subsistence fishing, and
hunting are affecting the park on the border with Rondonia and Matto Grosso,
Brazil. Brazilian loggers also periodically enter the park. Problems also
exist with illegal logging, hunting, gold and semi-precious stone prospecting,
and cocaine processing camps.
NGO's, Indigenous Groups, and Other Organizations: FAN, with funding from the -
TNC "Parks in Peril" program is investing USS360,000 in the park over three
years (ending in 1993). There are no indigenous groups. A limited number of
colonists are located within the Park, on the Itenez River. Ongoing
scientific research projects are being carried out by WCI (Wildlife
Conservation International) and other scientific and conservation
organizations.
Government Groups: The Park is administered by CERCONA (Regional Center for
Nature Conservation) with annual support for recurrent costs of US$138,000
from CORDECRUZ. The KFW/GTZ, through CORDECRUZ, are providing support for
equipment and some infrastructure.
Current Administration and Infrastructure: Staff consists of 1 director, 2
chief rangers, 2 rangers, 8 assistant rangers, and one chauffeur. The park
currently has 3 ranger stations plus 2 in construction and a tourist lodge at
Flor de Oro. Equipment includes 3 vehicles, 5 launches with outboard motors
and 6 radios.



32
ANN?EX II
Page 4 of 9
Immediate Administrative, Infrastructural and Other Needs: Management plan
including an ecotourism development program, evaluation of human settlements,
and the need and feasibility of expanding the park. Also needed are
additional administrative staff and park rangers, training for personnel,
infrastructure, and equipment.
BENI BIOLOGICAL STATION AND BIOSPHERE RESERVE
Location, Size and Access: This lowland reserve is located in Beni
Department and has an extension of 135,000 ha. The altitudinal range is only
230 m. The Reserve is located near the town of San Borja on the main road
(cut during the wet season) connecting the cities of La Paz and Trinidad.
There is a landing strip at the Reserve.
Outstanding Features: The park is a mosaic of Amazonian humid tropical
forest, seasonally flooded savannah, and wetlands. There are 19 species of
mammals and reptiles identified within the park that are found in the IUCN Red
Data Book. In 1987 it was declared a Biosphere Reserve of UNESCO. The
reserve is recommended as a high priority for protection in the Bolivian
Forestry Action plan (1986) and in the Latin American System of Parks/FAO.
Within the reserve live 649 Chimane Indians which practice traditional
hunting, fishing, collecting forest plants, and agriculture and are integrated
into the reserve management program.
Endemic, Important, or Endangered Species:  Over 100 species of mammals, and
400 species of birds have been identified in the reserve including several
endangered species. There is a large primate population, several species of
macaws, and a small population of the highly endangered black caiman.
Management Problems: A total of 309 campesinos and 649 Chimane Indians live
within the reserve, and around 750 people live in the immediate vicinity.
These groups engage in commercial and subsistence fishing and hunting,
agriculture, cattle grazing, and timber extraction, which if uncontrolled will
reduce biodiversity. The SW border is as of yet poorly defined. In total 25%
of the Reserve's area is subject to extensive use by indians and campesinos.
While the Reserve has a management plan it lacks the financial and human
resources to implement it.
NGO's, Indigenous Groups, and Other Organizations: The Reserve is
administered by the Bolivian Academy of Science. Aside from the Chimane
Indians many of the campesinos around the Reserve are descended from Reyesano,
Ignaciano, and Movima indians. World Wildlife Fund has donated US$22,117 to
small farmers for extension services to protect wildlife.
Government Groups: The Bolivian Treasury and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs budgeted US$100,000 for the Reserve in 1991. An endowment
established by Conservation International (CI), LIDEMA/PL-480 and other
sources cover part of recurrent costs including salaries and other operating



33
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
expenses. UNESCO has donated US$24,900 for extension and reserve promotion in
the region; UNDP, PL-480, and GTZ have donated US$49,500 for botanical
training; and UNDP, UNEP, and France donated US$19,000 for agricultural
training.
Current Administration and Infrastructure: In La Paz the Reserve staff in the
Bolivian Academy of Science includes 1 director, 1 subdirector, and 4
additional staff. A scientific coordinator, an environmental education
specialist, 1 administrator, 7 park rangers, and 5 support staff are in the
field. In the Reserve there is an operations center, with facilities for the
rangers and visitors, plus a primitive camp. The Reserve has a management
plan.
Immediate Administrative, Infrastructural and Other Needs: Increased
administration and personnel are required; training for personnel,
infrastructure, equipment, tourism programs, and solutions to colonization
problems.
NATIONAL FAUNAL RESERVE ULLA ULLA
Location, Size and Access: This Reserve is located in La Paz Department 60 km
NE of Lake Titicaca at the base of the Apolobamba Range. It has a size of
200,000 ha. Access in seven hours year round on a dirt track from the city of
La Paz. The Reserve has an altitudinal range from 3,500 to 6,000 m above sea
level.
Outstanding Features: The extreme altitudinal range, with high snow capped
peaks, makes the reserve scenically striking, with much tourism potential.
There are also glacial lakes and vast expanses of dry plains. The reserve
contains the largest populations of vicuna in Bolivia. Submontane rain
forests are found in the lower parts of the reserve. Also important are the
settlements of Callahuaya Indigenous people which are famous throughout the
altiplano for their traditional medicine practices. This is one of the most
famous regions in Bolivia for the preparation of traditional textiles.
Endemic, Impor-tant, or Endangered Species: A population of roughly 3,000
vicuna inhabit the puna in the reserve. There are also Andean condors,
Chilean flamingos and other rare yet characteristic bird species of the high
andes.  The lakes contain an endemic fish species (Orestias Sp.).  In the
forest are the extremely rare spectacled bear and the taruca (a species of
andean deer). There is also a rich andean flora.
Management Problems: While protection was effective in the past, hunting of
waterfowl, vizcachas and vicunas in the reserve is increasing. Also the
presence of about 250 families within the reserve engaging in traditional
livestock grazing, and some small scale mining, have had an impact on
biodiversity.
NGO's, Indigenous Groups, and Other Organizations: Callahuaya indigenous
people and other groups live in the protected area.



34
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Government Groups: Ulla Ulla is administered by the CDF of the MACA. From
1979 to 1986 the reserve received support from an integrated rural development
program funded by the World Bank. Currently some small-scale development
projects (bridge construction, livestock management) in the reserve are
receiving funding from the EEC channeled through the La Paz Regional
Development Corporation (CORDEPAZ).
Current Administration and Infrastructure: There are three rangers and two
volunteers working in the park, with a minimum of equipment, based at an
experimental agricultural station.
Immediate Administrative, Infrastructural and Other Needs: Management plan,
administrative staff, park rangers, training for personnel, infrastructure,
equipment, tourism program, extension program for groups within the reserve,
establishment of vicuna and other wildlife research programs.
NATIONAL FAUNA RESERVE EDUARDO AVAROA
Location, Size and Access: Located in the Department of Potosi on the border
with Chile and Argentina. The park measures 400,000 ha and has an altitudinal
range from 4,278 to 5780 m above sea level. The reserve is isolated located
six to eight hours by bad roads from Uyuni (14 hours from La Paz), the nearest
town. There are several airstrips within the reserve.
Outstanding Features: Extremely scenic mix of high snow capped volcanos, salt
pans, vast plains, hot springs, and andean lakes. The Reserve contains an
unparalleled high andean waterfowl population with excellent wetland habitat
for birds including three species of flamingos (it contains critical nesting
and feeding areas for these species). The reserve is recommended as a high
priority for protection in the Forestry Action plan (1986), is in the Latin
American System of Parks of FAO, and is included in the RAMSAR (an
international agreement that deals with the protection of wetlands) agreement.
Endemic, Important, or Endangered Species: The waterfowl population includes
the endemic and endangered James and Andean flamingos. The Reserve also
includes the andean subspecies of Darwin's rhea (one of the most endangered
birds in South America), vicuna, and the andean cat, perhaps the least known
large mammal in South America, amongst other species. There are also 3
species of rare plants.
Management Problems: There are eleven small mines in the Reserve, as well as
a geothermal electricity project which amongst other problems have resulted in
acidification of local water sources as well as contamination with sulfur.
Other problems are illegal hunting of vicuna, vizcacha, Darwin's rheas, and
exploitation of flamingo eggs by campesinos, miners and the military. There
are also problems with overgrazing by domestic livestock and overharvesting of
wood for cooking and construction.
NGO's, Indigenous Groups, and Other Organizations: There are about 1,000
people in the reserve in three types of settlements: small villages, farms



35
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
managed by indigenous people with livestock (llama, sheep) and agriculture,
and mining camps (six private and five cooperatives).
Government Groups: The national electricity company (ENDE) has a geothermal
electricity development project in the reserve which occasionally provides
lodging for visitors.
Current Administration and Infrastructure: Since 1987 the CDF/MACA has
assigned the ENDE geothermal project with the protection of wildlife in the
Laguna Colorado (the most important place for water birds). ENDE has provided
guards to stop bird egg collecting during the nesting season
Immediate Administrative, Infrastructural and Other Needs: Management plan,
administrative personnel, as well as park rangers, training for all personnel,
infrastructure, equipment, tourism program, program to control problems with
contamination from mining, and extension and environmental education programs
for local communities.
PROPOSED PROTECTED AREA MADIDI
Location and Access: The proposed protected area is located in NE La Paz
Department. The proposed park has a recommended extension of 300,000 to
600,000 ha with an altitudinal range from 200-1,000 m above sea level. Access
is presently by a new road being constructed between the city of La Paz and
Cobija in Pando, the northern most department. There is an airstrip in the
reserve.
Outstanding Features: While still little known the area of the proposed park
may contain the highest levels of biodiversity in the country with a large
extension of the humid montane forest of the eastern cordillera, lowland
tropical moist forest, and seasonally inundated savannah. Members of a CI RAP
team and a WCI cracid survey report that this is one of the finest wilderness
areas in Bolivia. This park is on the border with Peru and there are
possibilities of establishing a binational park.
Endemic, Important, or Endangered Species: The proposed area has very high
levels of biodiversity: in 1990 in a 15 day reconnaissance 204 species of
plants were found in a 0.1 ha quadrant; and 403 species of birds and 45
mammals were identified. There are at least 16 species of macaws and parrots
in the park and 10% of the bird species are endemic. The primate population
is rich with large populations of spider monkeys (one of the best indicators
of high quality lowland tropical moist forest). There are jaguars, small
eared dogs, tapirs and other flagship mammal species as well.
Management Problems: A small part of the area has been divided into logging
concessions; however the isolation of the region, and the lack of access to
high value trees, has led to the area being abandoned by the timber companies.



36
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
NGO's, Indigenous Groups, and Other Organizations: Very few people live in
the proposed reserve, though some Tacana indians use a small part of the area
for hunting and collecting food.
Government Groups:  SENMA will carry out a study to determine the reserve's
boundaries, develop a preliminary operations plan, and legally create the
reserve.
Current Administration and Infrastructure: None
Administrative and Infrastructural Needs: This reserve requires: a decree
creating the reserve, a management plan, trained administration and park
rangers, infrastructure, equipment, promotion, evaluation of indigenous
peoples and other settlements, etc.
PROPOSED PROTECTED AREA CHACO
Location and Access: Located in the south central section of the Department
of Santa Cruz, the park has a recommended extension of 1,000,000 ha. Access
is very poor by seasonal tracks leading south from the town of San Jose de
Chiquitos and Robore on the Santa Cruz-Corumba Railroad. There is an airstrip
at Fortin Ravelo on the eastern edge of the proposed reserve, and several
stripe at ranches on the western edge.
Outstanding Features: This is the last large untouched piece of dry Chaco
habitat left. The dry Chaco is a vast region of south central South America
(> 1 million km2) which has been all but ignored by conservation biologists.
It has been exposed to much uncontrolled predatory development which has
produced few positive economic returns and serious ecological degradation of
large areas. While scenically unimpressive, it contains high levels of plant,
bird, and mammal endemism; and probably contains many dry land adapted
species, which may prove economically valuable in the future. The proposed
protected area might also contain elements of the threatened cerrado ecosystem
and wetlands. The proposed area is likely to be on the border with Paraguay
thus providing the opportunity to establish a bi-national park.
Endemic, Important, or Endangered Species: There are a variety of endemic
mammals including the Chacoan peccary (undiscovered until 1974) and several
species of armadillos. The endangered pampas deer and probably the only
population of guanacos left in the country may also be protected in the
proposed area. At least 20% of the bird species are identified as endemic to
the Chaco, and there are many endemic plants.
NGO's, Indigenous Groups, and Other Organizations: The area contains one of
the last truly isolated indigenous group (Ayoreo Indians) in the country. On
the eastern border of the reserve are Izozenao Indians, and part of the
proposed reserve is still used seasonally by Ayoreo Indians subsistence
hunters.
Government Groups: None.



37
ANNZX II
Page 9 of 9
Current Administration and Infrastructure: None.
Administrative and Infrastructural Needs: This reserve requires:
identification of area to be protected, decree creating the reserve, a
management plan, trained administration and park rangers, infrastructure,
equipment, promotion, and evaluation of indigenous peoples.



38
ANNEX III
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
System Plan Ob;ectives and Methodolocv
1.    The purpose of the system plan is to identify and provide a course of
action for the protection and use of the Country's outstanding natural and
cultural heritage. The system plan for protected areas would:
-   assure the protection of Bolivia's most outstanding and representative
ecosystems and cultural groups
-   encourage public understanding and promote appreciation and use of that
heritage in ways which leave it unimpaired for future generations
-   demonstrate techniques to foster economic development through
ecotourism, and sustainable use of renewable resources
-   provide opportunities for research
-   stimulate use of marginal areas.
2.    The process utilized in recommending areas for inclusion into the SNAP
will involve a systematic identification and analysis of those areas which
best represent the natural and cultural heritage of the country. (See Figures
I and II for analysis of how the eight parks were chosen for inclusion within
the proposed project.) The inventory phase of the planning process will
include field trips, overflights, literature review and extensive interviews
with knowledgeable individuals. A matrix will be designed analyzing the full
range of riverine, wetland, and terrestrial ecological zones, vegetative
communities, wildlife, geology and geomorphology, and cultural and historical
data. In addition consideration also will be given to the education, economic
and scientific potential of proposed areas.  Based on this analysis, a series
of overlay maps will be prepared by SNAP using satellite and aerial photograph
imagery. Subsequently this information will be correlated with national and
departmental land-use priorities to minimize conflicts between critical
agriculture or forestry areas and activities proposed for the park system.
For example, the national land-use capabiLity map identifies lands as having
potential for agriculture or agro-forestry.  Combining this information with
soils data, Bolivia's most productive lands can be isolated.



Annex IV - PERFORMANCE TARGETS
1.1 - Institutional Support to SENMA's Direccion Nacional de Areas Protegidas v Vida Silvestre (DNAPVS) to manaee the SNAP
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                     EXPECTED                 TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                   OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                            COMPLETION)
Develop the administrative        1. Recruit required personnel      SENMA: DNAPVS                  Complete a written document    month 1-4
capacity to effectively manage                                                                      outlining the stratcgy for
Bolivia's protected areas.        2. Purchase equipment                                             managing Bolivia's protected
areas.                         month 1-4
3. Develop and implement work
plan to manage Bolivia's protected                                                               month 3-60
areas
Lri
I-
e n
>4
0



1.2 - Development of an Information System for the SNAP
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                      INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED                 TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                   OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                            COMPLETION)
Asscssment of DNAPVS's            1. Assess information needs of the   Staff Information, Planning,  Report outlining information  Completed
information requirements for the  DNAPVS and SNAP.                   and Evaluation Unit within     needs.
management of the SNAP.                                              DNAPVS.
2. Identify cxisting sources of                                  Report evaluating existing data   Completed
information, cvaluate their quality                              sources in Bolivia.
3. Identify hardwarc and software                                Report on hardware and          Completed
requirements.                                                    software requirements.
4. Develop agreements to access                                  Signed agreements with CDC      Months 1-6
existing data bases.                                             (Conservation Data Center)
universities, data banks and
other institutions providing the                                  o
DNAPVS with access to their
information systems.
Installation of information system  I. Purchase and installation of  DNAPVS                         Information system installed   Months 6-12
hardware and software.                                           and undergoing pilot test.
Purchase 486 computer with
2. Train SNAP personnel in the                                   potential for 2000 megabytes
use of the information system.                                   storage capacity.
SNAP personnel trained in the
use of the system
Drafting of user's manual on
the use of the system                                     OQ
mri 
0 11



Full operation of inforrnation    1. Furnish information             DNAPVS                        Information system fully       Months 13-60
system                            requirements of the SNAP,                                        operational.
specific protected areas and other
institutions dealing with planning
and management of protected
areas.
2. Continually input new data into
system.
1.3 - Consolidation of the Network of Protected Areas
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEM ENTS                 OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                        _COMPLETION)
Evaluate the existing system of   1. Use existing inforrnation and   Contract consulting firm with    Written evaluation report   Month 1-6
protected areas as well as areas  criteria to preliminarily evaluate  expertise in national park
not yet included in system.       biological importance, ccological  planning (socio-economic
integrity and feasibility of      analysis, biophysical data
conservation of existing protected    analysis, etc. for two years.
areas.
2. Idcntify missing priority
ecosystems and areas.
3. Identify information gaps to be
filled by field studies.
Conduct field studies to          1. In-situ evaluation of existing  Same as above                 Written evaluation and         Month 7-24             |       Q
consolidate information base.     and proposed protected areas.                                    recommendations for actions                                   o
on selected areas.                                              F
0e..



Consolidate the protected areas   1. Dcvelopment of proposals for     Same as above                 Written detailed proposals for    Month 25-36
system by integrating high priority  integrating or derogating areas.                               establishing new protected
areas and derogating areas of little                                  DNAPVS                        areas or modifying boundaries
biological significance.          2. Implement results of above                                     of existing ones.
study by concrete legal and
management actions to integrate or                                Written justifications for
derogate areas.                                                   derogating cxisting areas.                            l
O~Q 
tD tp4
0h
Hx



1.4 - Trainine of Protected Area's Personnel
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                         ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED               TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                  OUTPUT/IMPACT                (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                           COMPLETION)
Provide basic training to all    1. Itinerant introductory courses  Training unit of the DNAPVS   Better understanding of       Month 8-14 (2 weeks
personnel on the basic principles    for all protected areas personnel to  in coordination with each  protected area management  per area)
of protected area management.    be held in 6 protected areas.      protected area. One           principles in the part of all
instructor for 6 months, I in    SNAP personnel.
Ieach park.
Develop a team of highly trained  I. A two year training program for  DNAPVS 4 Instructors for 2    40 park guards trained in two    Graduating class 1:
mid and high-level park guards to   high and mid-level park guards.  years each.                  graduating classes. Each      Month 13-36
manage the SNAP.                 Training plan as follows: First                                 student would have had 6
year: 3 months classroom training                               months of classroom training    Graduating class 2:
and 9 months in the field with in-                              and 18 months of in-situ      Month 2548
situ training by itinerant                                      training.
instructors. Second year: 2 monihs
classroom training and 9 months in                                                                                               w
the field with in-situ training by
itinerant instructors, and I month
of wrap up courses and
evalualions.
Develop a team of highly trained    1. A one year training program for   DNAPVS 4 Instructors for 19   60 park guards trained in two    Graduating class 1:
low-level park guard to manage   low-level park guards. Training    months each. Asst. trainers    graduating classes. Each     Month 22-30
the SNAP.                         plan as follows: 3 months         for 24 and 16 months each.    student would have had 3
classroom training and 6 months in                              months of classroom training  Graduating class 2:
the field with in-situ training by                              and 6 months of in-situ       Month 34-42
itinerant instructors.                                         training.
P3 Z
OQ ~
Improve the management skills of   1. A one month intensive training    Short-term consultants    Upgrade the skills of all     Month 11                  t r'4
park managers                     program for park managers.        DNAPVS                        existing park managers in the                              X
SNAP                                                    o H
Un



Plan and coordinate training      1. Contract coordinator and       Training coordinator to      Work plan for training         Months 1-3
program to ensure coordination   contract out and supervise training    manage the Training Unit of    activities.
and adequate execution of        program components for the         the DNAPVS
activities                       SNAP.                                                           Written evaluation of each     Month 3-51
course.
2. Evaluate each course and
provide written report on results,                              Written annual evaluation of  Months 12, 24, 36, 48
and suggestions for adjustments in                             the training program with      & 60.
implementation.                                                recommendations for changcs
and improvements.
e  4
0 1
La



1.5 - Program of Control. Reeulation and Establishment of Policies and Procedures for the SNAP
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                  OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                           COMPLETION)
Develop policy, rules and         1. Draft manual outlining          Coordinator of Control and    A written document containing   Month 3-8
procedures for the SNAP,          procedures, and regulations of the    Enforcement Program to be  the procedures and regulations
SNAP                              contractod by DNAPVS           of the SNAP to be used by
protected areas personnel    __
Develop radio communications      1. Establish radio communication   Same as above                 Radio equipment installed and    Month 5-8
network to supervise the SNAP     with 3 protected areas                                           working in 3 protctied areas
and coordinate control and
cnforcement activities in the     2. Establish radio communication                                 Effective radio communication   Month 13-18
protected areas,                  wilh 5 remaining priority areas                                  with remaining 5 areas
Manage and supervise control and    1. On-going implementation of    Same as above                 Systematic and uniform         Month 9-60
enforcement activitics of the     procedures and regulations.                                      application of procedures and
SNAP according to uniform                                                                          regulations in at least 8
policics and guidelines. Visit                                                                     priority protected areas.
problem areas as frequently as                                                                     Effective supervision of the
needed.                                                                                            SNAP.
0<
I3. .



2. 1 - Coordination for the Development of Manaaement Plans
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                         ACTIVITY                    INSTITUTIONAL                   EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                 OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                          COMPLETION)
Provide the DNAPVS with          1. Hiring of a consultant specialist   Consultant working within the   Uniform park management  Month 1-4 hiring;
expertise to manage the protected    in protected area management to  DNAPVS - 4 person months    plans.
areas planning process.          develop a uniform framework for
management plans.
Improve ability of Bolivian      1. Conduct 2 week workshop for    Same as above                Proposals from various        Month 4
technicians in the preparation of  potential bidders for management                             institutions reflecting
park management plan proposals    plan contracts to discuss the terms                           understanding of terms of
of reference and work                                          reference and uniformity of
methodology,                                                   methodology.
Process intemational competitive    I. Finalize terms of reference for    DNAPVS Planning and   Terms of reference for        Month 1, month 13,
bids and select consultants to   bids,                             coordination in conjunction  management plans and          month 25, month 1-2
develop management plans.                                          with procurement entity.     methodology for proposal                                        a
2. Develop methodology for                                     evaluation.
proposal evaluation.
Bids received and processed.
3. Evaluate proposals.                                         Selection of and negotiations  Months 2-4, 14-16,26-
with consultants.            28.
4. Award and sign contracts.                                                                 Months 5.7, and 29.
Supervise and coordinate the     1. Field research and preparation  Consultants to the DNAPVS,   Seven management plans that    Month 5-36
development of management plans   of management plans.             selected through international   are adjusted to and follow the
for 7 priority protected areas.                                    bidding process.             general guidelines provided by
the DNAVPS and which take
into account all recevant                               o
aspects of the area's                                   X z
biological, geographical,                               co H
social, cubural and economic                            o C
features, the needs and
activities of local communities 
and incorporate them in thc
management and planning
______________________________   _______________________________   ___________________________  process.            _____poc ss



Implement management plans      1. Develop annual operating plan    DNAPVS                   Annual operating plans for 8    Month 12-60
based on management plan.                                    protected areas.
2. Carry out work program       DNAPVS in coordination       Specific programs as outlined    Month 13-60
defined by managcment plans     with NGO's and other         in operating pans.
organizations yet to be
defined.
Evaluate management plan        1. Evaluation of management plan    Planning Coordinator     Document evaluating protected   Months 13-60
implementation to ensure that  implementation and effectiveness.                             area management plans
management is effcctive and                                                                  implementation
adapting to changing conditions
and availability of improved data
on each area.
-4
'0
IL
o A



2.2 - Suoport to key existine protected areas I/
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                      INSTITUTIONAL                     EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                   OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                            COMPLETION)
Protection of Amboro N.P.         Hire personnel, purchase            DNAPVS in conjunction with    Adequate management and         12-60
equipment and develop              NGOs as appropriate (specific   protection of the area based on
infrastructure required to         activities to be carried out by    the implementation of annual
adequately manage the area.        NGOs to be defmned).           work plans.
Protection of Noel Kempff         same                                same                           same                           12-60
Mercado N.P.
Protection of Beni Biological     same                                same                          same                            12-60
Station
Protection of Ulla Ulla N.P       same                                same                          same                            12-60
I/ Carlasco N.P. and Edwardo Avaroa V.R. will only be provided with management plans                                                                                    ao
I-
0
I-A
o l



2.3 - Establishment of Two Protected Areas: Gaps in the System
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                  OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                           COMPLETION)_
Establish a viable protected area  1. Develop management plan for    DNAPVS in conjunction with    Adequate management and        Month 13-60
in the Alto Madidi.              the area.                           NGOs as appropriate (specific   protection of the area based on
activities to be carried out by    the implementation of annual
2. Hire personnel, provide        NGOs lo be defined).           work plans.
training, purchase equipment and
develop infrastructure required to
adequalely manage the area.
Legally establish one or more     1. Carry out field studies required    Consultants to the DNAPVS,    Proposal for the establishment   Month 4-10
protectcd areas as required to   to draft comprehensive proposal     selected through international   of the area providing a
encompass the various habitat     for the establishment of one or    bidding process.             juslification and defining
types of the Chaco region in need    more protected areas. Develop                                 socially and ecologically
of protection.                    legislation and obtain approval to                               viable boundaries for the area.
legally declare the area(s) as                                                                                        l
protected.
2. Develop management plan for                                                                  Month 27-34l
the area(s).
0
F-n



2.4 - Environmental Education and Extension Around Protected Areas
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                         ACTIVITY                    INSTITUTIONAL                   EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                 OUTPUT/IMPACT                (STARTINGI
RESPONSIBILITIES                                          COMPLETION)
Develop capability within the    1. Contract Program Coordinator    DNAPVS (environmental       Work plan for environmental    Month 13-16
DNAPVS to organize and                                            education coordinator)        cducation program to ensure
supervise environmental          2. Draft work plan for                                         better management ot          Month 17-20
education/outreach program       environmental education program.                               protected areas.
Build a team of environmental    1. Recruit educators for each     DNAPVS                       Build a fully trained team of at  Month 14-15
educators/extension workers to   protected area (preferably from a                              least 6 community based
carry out in-situ environmental  community near the protected area                              environmental educators.
education/community outreach    itselo.
programs.
2. Carry out initial intensive
training course.                                                                                                               o
Develop and implement            1. Develop didactic materials to be   DNAPVS in coordination   Education and outreach        Month 12-60
environmcntal education program  used in the protected areas (videos,  with each protected area.  programs tailored to each
to provide an understanding to the   brochures, posters, etc).                                  specific area. These include
surrounding communities of the                                     The DNAPVS will contract     among others, environmental
importance of conservation of    2. Develop programs tailored to   out the development of       workshops, visits by groups to
natural resources in sustainable  the needs of each protected area.    specific didactic materials.  the protected area.
activites in buffer zones.                                                                      development of didactic
3. Hold on-going training                                      materials, etc.
programs and site visits to improve
park guards and promotors                                      Annual reports from each      Months 24,36,48,&          f'd
effectiveness in the field.                                    educator summarizing          60.
programs and                                               >C
accomplishments.
0
Summary report and
subsequent year work plan by    Months 25,37,49
program coordinator.



3.1 - Evaluation of the economic importance of the protected areas, and recompilation of traditional knowledge
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                           ACTIVITY                      INSTITUTIONAL                     EXPECTED                 TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                   OUTPUTIIM PACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                             COMPLETION)
Review existing knowledge of       1. Contract Specialist              Specialist contracled for I    Report on existing uses of      Month 13-16
sustainable wildlife utilization.                                      year                           wildlife, evaluating success
2. Carry out literature rcview.                                    and failures.                  Month 17-22
Evaluate pressure on wildlife      1. Carry out survey of a            Consultants to the DNAPVS      Survey of resource utilization  Month 19-26
resources and recommend suitable   representative sample of population   in cooperation with staff in  among communities around
species for management.            around protecicd areas.             specific protected areas       protected areas.
2. Analyze data and produce
report making recommendations of
suitable species for pilot projects.
g ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
.~~~~~~
m z
>4
0
h-lC
I-



3.2 - Development of Proposals for Pilot Proiects of Sgecies Management and In Situ Conservation of Germplasm
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                  OUTPUTIIMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                           COMPLETION)
Develop specific proposals for    I. Contact Consultant              Consultants to the DNAPVS     Reach preliminary agreements   Month 21-24
pilot projects for the sustainable                                   working in coordination with    with local communities
use of wildlife species.          2. Work with local communities to  local communities,            regarding pilot projects.
identify potential projects, and
draft proposals for specific pilot                               Develop comprehensive          Month 25-30
projects.                                                        proposals for 2 or 3 specific
wildlife utilization pilot
projects.                                           |
Identify germplasm in need of     1. Evaluate germplasm              Consultants to the DNAPVS.    Report with recommendations    Month 25-36
conservation.                     conservation priorities,                                         on germplasm in need of
conservation.
2. Develop specific proposals for
conservation of germplasm in-situ.                               Specific proposals for in-situ  Month 25-36                      t
conservation of germplasm.
P)
x
4H
0
o C



4.0 - Develooment of Stratceics for Long term Fundine of Protected Areas
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED                TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                  OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                            COMPLETION)
Evaluate thc potential revenue    I. Contract Consultant              FONAMA.                      A report with policy           Month 4-5
sources for long term management                                                                   recommendations and an
of protected areas.               2. Prepare report analyzing                                      action plan to pursue these    Month 6
potential sources of long term                                   options.
funding for protected areas.
5.0 - Monitorine and Evaluation
MATRIX OF ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED OUTPUT
OBJECTIVE                          ACTIVITY                     INSTITUTIONAL                    EXPECTED                 TIMING TARGETS
ARRANGEMENTS                  OUTPUT/IMPACT                 (STARTING/
RESPONSIBILITIES                                            COMPLETION)
Monitor and evaluate project      Continual and annual evaluation    Consultants to the DNAPVS     Annual reviews with            Months 1-60
progress and impact.              exercises for each park to provide                               recommendations for project
feedback to the SNAP. and to                                    fine tuning.                                                  pi
annual and mid-term reviews.                                                                                                   M
ol X
0



Annex V - IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS - BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
ACTIVITY                        PYl               PY2               PY3               PY4               PY5 f
1-6  -7-12    1-8         924 25-30 1 31-36   37-42 1 43-48   49-54             56
1.1 Establish DNAPVS
-Recruit Personnel (ongoing)            xxxx
-Purchase Equipment                     xxxx
-Develop and Implement Work Plan          xxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx
1.2 Develop Information System
-Assess Needs and Purchase              xxxxxx
Equipment (ongoing)
-Contract Consultants                   xxxxxx
-Install Information System                    xxxxxx
-Operate System                                           xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx
1.3 ConsolidatIon of Protected Area
System
-Evaluate System                        xxxxxx
-Conrduct FieLd Studies                        xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
-Consolidate System                                                        XXXXXX XXXXXX
1.4 Training of Protected Area
Personnel
-Contract Training Coordinator          xxx
-Coordinate Training Program              xxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx
and Evaluation
-Introductory Training Program                  XXXXX
-Mid and High Level Guard Course                         xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
-Hid and High Level Guard                                                  xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
-Low Level Guard Course I                                           xxx   xxxxxx
-Low Level Guard Course 2                                                                            xxxxxx   xxxx
-Protected Area Manager Short                        x                x                 x                 x
Course & Workshops
1.5 Control, Enforcement end
Regulation Program
-Contract Coordinator                    xx
-Develop Policy, Rules,                      x xX XX
Procedures and Manual                                                                                                                                       oq
-Setup Radio Network, Phase 1               XX XX
-Setup Radio Network, Phase 2                             xxxxxx
-Manage and Supervise Control and                 xxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx                                               0
Enforcement Activities                                                                                                                                        b-Fe



ACTIVITY                       PYVz5 PYI                          PY3               PY4               PY5
1-6  | 7-12  |13-18    9Z    25-30o 3 - 31-36   3-2|4-48   49-541 55-60
2.1 Coordinate and Manage
Development and Implementation of
Management Plans                       xxxx
-Contract Consultants                     x
-Managment Plan Training
Course                                xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxx
-Select Consultants to
Produce Managment Plans for
Individual Areas                           xx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
-Develop Management Plans                           x   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
-Develop Annual Operating Plans                                                            xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
based on Management Plan                               xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
-Carry out Work Program
Defined by Management Plan                                                                xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx
-Evaluate Management Plan                               xxxx   xxxxx   xxxxx xxxxxx
Implementation
2.2 Protected Area Support
Program
-Carrasco National Park
|  *Management Plan                  _                     xx xxxxxx            .
-Amboro National Park                                         
*Hiring PersonneL                        xx xxxxxx
*Boundary Marking                         x xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx                                          |'
*CiviL Uorks and Building                              xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
Furnishing
*Purchase of Transportation                 xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
*Purchase Equipment                         xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
*Management Plan                       xxxx xxxxxx
-Noel Kempff Mercado National
Park
*Hiring Personnel                    xxxxxx xxxxxx   xx                 xx
*Purchase Equipment                  xx                xx               xx               xx
*Management Plan                        xxx xxxxxx
-Beni Biological Station
*Hiring Personnel                    xxxxxx            xx               xx
*Boundary Marking                    xxxxxx                                                                                 I                                  Z
*Civil Works and Building            xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx                                                                                          D Z
Furnishing                                                                                                                                                    X4
*Purchase of Transportation          xxxxxx
*Purchase Equipment                  xxxxxx            xxxxxx          _                                                                                   0
-Eduardo Avaroa Wixdxife Reserve                                             .                                       _ _
*Management Plan                                              xxxxxx   xx 



ACTIVITY                       PyI              PY2             PY3              PY4               PY5
_  1-6    7-12    13-18 1 19-24   25-30 1 31-36   37-42   43-48   49-54    55-60
-Utla Ulla lational Park
*Hiring Personnel                                    xxxxxx           xxxx             xx
*Boundary Marking                                                            xxxxxx   xxxxxx
*Civil Works and Building                            xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
Furnishing
*Purchase of Transportation                          xxxx             xxxx             x
*Purchase Equipment                                  xxxxxx           xxxxxx           xxx
*Management Plan                        xx xxxxxx   x
-Madidi National Park
*Hiring Personnel                   xx         xx   xx          xx   xx
*Boundary Marking                                                            xxxxxx
*CiviL Works and Building                                   xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
Furnishing
*Purchase of Transportation         xxxx             xxxx             xxxx
*Purchase Equipment                 xxxx             xxxx             xxxx
*Management Plan                                       x xxx xxxx
2.3 Establishment of Chaco
National Park
*Diagnostic to establish               xxx xxxx
reserve boundaries                                                      xxxx xxxx
*Managemnent Plan                                                        xn
2.4 Environmental Education and
Extension Program
-Contract Program Coordinator                          xxx   x
-Develop Work Plan                                       xx  xx        xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx
-Carry out Intensive training
Course and ongoing Courses for
Park Promotors and Guards
-Develop Envirorvental                                 xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx
Education Materials for use by
Promotors and Conduct
Envirormental Education and
Extension Program                  _    _     _
3.1 Evaluation of the Economic
Impontance of Protected Areas                                                                                                                       w
-Contract Consultant and                               xxxoC
Interviewers                                             xx xxxx                                                                                  0
-Literature Review                                           xxx         x
-Field Survey of Commainities in                              xxixxx   xx
and near Protected Areas and
Produce Final Report



ACTIVITY                1-6    7-1             PY2             PY3              PY4              PY5
___1|9_41-6 | 7-12  13-18  19-24  25-30 | 31-36  37-42  43-48 |49-5
3.2 Develop Proposals for PNot
Projects for Species Management
and Gefmplasm Conservation
-Contract Consultant                                           xxxx
-Develop Specific ProposaLs for
Pilot Projects
-Develop Gerupiasm                                                    xxxxxx xxxxxx
Conservation Proposals                                              _____________
4.0 Develop Strategies for Long
Ten,, Funding
-Contract Consuttant                    xx
-Develop Strategy Docunent                x
5.0 Monitoring and Evaluation
-Monitoring and Evaluation of      J xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx xxxxxx   xxxxxx XXAXXX
Project Progress                  I
Ln
-.
( 51
0
'h



58
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Outline for Management Plans
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. INTRODUCTION
A. REGIONAL AND NATIONAL OVERVIEW
S. TOURISM AND NATIONAL PARKS IN THE REGION
II.   BIODIVERSITY
A. Inventory Procedures
1. Ecosystem
a. Remote Sensing/Geographic Information System
assessment of ecosystem areas and boundaries.
b. On-the-ground examination of ecosystems.
2. Species
a. Baseline assessment of critical species'
populations using appropriate census methods.
B. Monitoring Procedures
1. Ecosystem
a. Remote Sensing/Geographic Information System
periodic re-assessment of habitat areas and
boundaries.
b. Periodic on-the-ground examination of ecosystems.
2. Species
a. Annual re-assessment of critical species
populations using appropriate census methods.
C. Baseline Ecosystem Data
1. General Ecosystem Information
a. Climate
b. Geology
c. Geomorphology
d. Geography
e. Hydrology
2. Specific Aquatic Ecosystem Data (list of aquatic
ecosystems present on the project area along with a
brief description of dominant species and
characteristics along with estimated area).
a. Riparian (as an example)
b. Lacustrine
3. Specific Terrestrial Ecosystem Data (list of terrestrial
ecosystems present on the project area along with a
brief description of dominant characteristics and
species along with estimated are).
a. Lowland Wet Tropical Forest (as an example)
b. Swamp Forest



59
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
D. Baseline Species Data (for each species, include preferred
habitat, estimated population size, and reason for
inclusion).
1. CITES Species
2. Indicator Species
3. Species of Economic Importance
4. Migratory Species
a. Nearctic Migrants
b. Austral Migrants
c. Intratropical Migrants
5. Keystone Species
6. Area-sensitive Species
7. Flagship Species
8. Exotic/Pest Species
9. Endemic Species
E. Identified Threats to Biodiversity
F. Programs for Maintenance of Biodiversity.
G. Database System Maintenance and Reporting.
III. BACKGROUND INFORMATION
A. Recreational Use
B. Boundaries and Land Use
C. Policy and Legislation
D. Determination of Benefits
IV. MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE NATIONAL PARK
A. Policy and Objectives of the National Park
B. Zoning
C. Terrestrial Resource Management Program
D. Visitor Use Program
1.  Environmental Education
2. Visitor Safety
3. Park Headquarters and Visitor Center for the National
Park
E. Installations, Construction, and Groundswork
F. Riverine and Wetland Resource Management Program For the
National Park
G. Administration
H. Investment and Operating Costs of the National Park
1. Land
2. Infrastructure
3. Natural Resource Works
4. Park Headquarters and Visitor Center
5. Interpretation and Research
6. Personnel Costs
I. Sources of Park Income for the National Park
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT
A. Projected Economic Benefits to the Region
B. Visitor Outside-Park Expenditure
C. Appreciation of Contiguous Property



60
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
D.  Natural Resource Conservation
E. Employment Impact
F. Foreign Exchange Impact
G. Impact on the Revitalization of the Region
VI. THE CULTURAL RESOURCE BASE AND COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
A. Inventory of Indigenous and Colonization Groups
1. Traditional organization and decision-making pprocess in
the region
2. Social infrastructure
3. Resource use patterns and economic baeline assessment
(wildlife cropping and extractive use)
4. Population census aggregated by group
5. Land Tenure
6. Traditional resource use/users
7. Definition - of Resource/Group Conflicts
B. Identification of Restrictions and Alternatives (QUID PRO QUO)
1. Resstrictions on land & biological resources
2. Economically viable alternatives
3. Provisions for basic human needs
C. Community Participation Program
1. System to ensure adequate representation
2. Formulation of committees and outreach work
3. Coordination and collaboration with NGOs, community
based groups and social organizations
D. Monitoring and Evaluation Program: Objectives of Community
Participation
1. Local representation and management committees
2. Equitable distribution of resources and income
3. Land-base conflict resolution
4. Adequacy of workshops and training
5. Decisions taken in workshops to improve management plans
and overall project design
6. Effectiveness of social outreach workers
7. Strategy to minimize encrochments into Core Area
a. income base and alternative sources of income
b. education/awareness program
c. granting of land titles
d. improved enforcement
APPENDIX I - WILDLIFE
APPENDIX II - MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
APPENDIX III - TOURISM DEMAND
APPENDIX IV - THE ECONOMICS OF TOURISM IN BOLIVIA
APPENDIX V - CAPITAL, MAINTENANCE, AND PERSONNEL COSTS
APPENDIX VI - FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF RESTAURANT AND HOTEL DEVELOPMENT



61
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
APPENDIX VII - SELF-GUIDING INTERPRETIVE TRAILS
APPENDIX VIII - ACTION PLAN FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ECOTOURISM IN THE
REGION
REFERENCES
LIST OF MAPS, SCHEMATIC ELEVATIONS. AND FIGURES
Map 1.      Map of Bolivia indicating the national park
Map 2.      Map of Region indicating the proposed or established national
park and proposed buffer areas.
Map 3.       Proposed Development Sites showing zoning (Wilderness Area,
Intensive Use Area, etc.)
Map 4.       Soils Maps of National Park or Protected Area
Map 5.       Topographic Maps of National Park or Protected Area
Map 6.      Land Use Maps of National Park or Protected Area
Map 7.      Land Capability Maps of National Park
Map 8.      Vegetation Zones and Land Ownership of the National Parks
Maps 9.     Base Maps showing AB transect lines through the parks as
represented on the Schematic Elevations.
Maps 10.    Zoning and Infrastructure for the National Parks
Schematic 1.      Schematic Elevations of the National Park or Protected Area
Site Plan 1.      Proposed National Park  -  Recreation Areas.



62
ANNX VII
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Glossarv
Biological Diversity (biodiversity): The variety and variability among living
organisms and the ecological complexes in which they occur.
Biosphere Reserve: A unique category of protected areas combining both
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. Each biosphere reserve
conserves examples of characteristic ecosystems of one of the world's natural
regions.
Buffer Zone: An area surrounding a conservation or protected area which is
extensive enough to insulate the protected core from the dispersion of exotic
genetic material. Land uses in a buffer zone must be compatible with its
primary function of maintaining the core.
Ecosystem: A community of organisms interacting with one another and the
environment in which they are found. Ecosystem boundaries are often physical
(such as watersheds, fields, or lakes).
Ex-situ: The management of planted stands of trees outside of their natural
range; the conservation or preservation of trees as seed, pollen, tissue
culture or excised plant parts.
Geographic Information System (GIS): Employs an array of spatial information
(maps) and displays such data as themes (forest cover, pollution damage,
habitats, etc.) to overlay, spread or otherwise objectively analyze and
display the solution to a land management problem.
Germplasm: Living reproductive material including pollen, seeds and plants
and their parts.
Germplasm collection: A collection of many different varieties, species or
subspecies representing a diverse collection of genetic material.
In-situ: The managing of organisms in their natural state or within their
normal range.
Reforestation: The introduction of trees on land from which they had
previously been removed.



63
ANNEX VIII
BOLIVIA
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
List of Documents Available in Prolect File
1.   Ley General del Medio Ambiente, H. Congreso Nacional
2.   SENMA - "Plan Trienal 1992-1995"
3.   SENMA - Draft "Estatutos Organicos"
4.   World Bank - "Bolivia Environmental Issues Paper," October 16, 1989
5.   Brady C. Ronald, "The Bolivian Environmental Protection Movement; A
Current Assessment," Princeton University, August 1990.
6.   Finot Asociados - "Diagnostico Institutional del Medio Ambiente" (3
volumes)
7.   Ministry of Agriculture, "Pausa Ecologica Historica" January 11, 1990
8.   SENMA - "Que Camino Debemos Andar... March 1992
9.   FONAMA - "Plan Trienal de Inversiones 1992-94, April 1992, Draft
Estatutos Organicos and Operations Manual
10. Detailed Project Cost Estimates
11. TORs and Outline for Management Plans
12.  Ivan Finot, "Bolivia 1972-1990 Evaluacion y Prospectiva" December 1991
13. LIDEMA - "Bolivia: Poblacion y Medio Ambiente", September 1991
14. Preliminary Draft of the Trust Fund






IBRD 23957R
,    B 0  L I V  I A
T           1_ID0 _  200 15C B R A  Z I L                                           BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
C CtI                             ,-                                                              PROJECT
Cnduels..Cs- -----  Eslrbilshed Proected Arros                          -   '. Isnhy.ts -n mill meters/yenr
T. nRion~              / -%to be S.pp-rted by 13.d--lsry
;.-      tr          GCeyo, rI                                    Conserno-rOn Pro1ect                   ROADS-
_- S_  _; /*.                      - ~     |     0     o  55                P ro p ose d   P ro tecte d   A reos   M o n
.'P A N D                                                           OTrocs
\    Towns
-I?            \                                                                                                                  . \t    Deportment Copltols    it
\i   t j!   I                     \          9<          -                                             *    NotionaL Cop,t.l
Psioeo                                                      - - -  Dep.ratmens Boundottes
MADIDI           .C/     .                                                                           Elenorons in meters
~~  7~~qdel                                                 4~ 500
P E RU~   C0,phemos                                   '                                           /  . 0Ebr /   300
0SoseRoo      . B   E\ N                                  KEMPFF M.                       150
7  's\ \ r~at>b_           E. BIOLOGICAL BEHI                 .    /
_s ,~~.,                                                                                                         B  R  A            I  L$';c
0~~~~~~~~- 
T.                                                                  17't
CR  p~~A  -    C    U 
OA-  com                                                                     CHACO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.m
T                                                                                       C.,-ez <UQU15ACA  5-+   ............................... rn   .rm  A     oP no
>        ^o7;    [ ,_    <,,.~~IdS               A1 '-''                                  SBOLI0tVIA'Th
CH L E\   ~       O    TOS1/                 W 8jrLse o.tAIJ                                                    (;9tS l                 B  RAZIL
PARAGUAYAGANR9
C H    L    P                     ARGENT  INAI
ro,deo..non rh.ii.Rgo              A
A S  R                .EAe       ImoouS 8Ne, Ao
J'SoUARY 1995






I~~~~~



I Printed on recycled paper
@ Printed on recycled paper



