Page  1
October     , 1995
His Excellency
Mr. Fernando Candia
Minister of Finance
Mr. Gonzalo Afcha
Secretary of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Cajón Postal - Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolívar esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:  GET Grant No. 28620 (Biodiversity Conservation Project)
Fourth Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Global Environmental Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the Grant 
Agreement) between the Republic of Bolivia (the Recipient) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development dated December 21, 1992, as amended on June 24, 1993, 
January 11, 1994 and December 16, 1994.
Pursuant to our discussion on the matter, we are pleased to inform you that the Trustee 
hereby agrees to amend the Grant Agreement as follows:
1.
Schedule 1
:
(a)
Category (4) in the table in paragraph 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
(4) Recurrent Expenditures
2,000,000
1,160,000
100% until withdrawals
under this Category out of
the proceeds of the SDC
Grant Account have reached
an aggregate amount of
870,000 Swiss Francs and
out of the proceeds of the GET
Grant Account have reached
an aggregate amount of
SDR480,000;
Page  2
70% until withdrawals
under this Category out of
the proceeds of the SDC
Grant Account have reached
an aggregate amount of
520,000 Swiss Francs and
out of the proceeds of the GET
Grant Account have reached
an aggregate amount of
SDR310,000;
50% until withdrawals
under this Category out of
the proceeds of the SDC
Grant Account have reached
an aggregate amount of
380,000 Swiss Francs and
out of the proceeds of the GET
Grant Account have reached
an aggregate amount of
SDR230,000; and
30% thereafter
(b)
A new paragraph shall be added after paragraph 3 which shall read as follows:
"4.  The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GET Grant Account and the SDC 
Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
under: (a) contracts for goods and works to be awarded under Part C of Section I of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent; and (d) Categories (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.".
3.
Section II of Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued 
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee.  Where no 
Page  3
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms 
acceptable to the Trustee shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts 
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each.  However, said 
exceptions to prior Trustee review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such 
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical 
nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee; (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above; (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising 
the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above.".
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an 
original and shall become effective on the date the Trustee has received one fully executed 
original of this amendment letter. Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by 
signing and dating the two counterparts of this amendment letter. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Nicholas Krafft
Acting Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED
:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/
Page  4
Authorized Representative
Date:
