Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER 28620-BO
Global Environmental Trust 
Fund
Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Page  2
Dated December 21, 1992
GET GRANT NUMBER 28620-BO
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF 
BOLIVIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS: (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established the Global 
Environment Facility consisting of the GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the 
GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
WHEREAS: (B) certain members of the Bank and Switzerland (the 
Participants) have provided resources by way of grant into the GET and the 
Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant 
funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance with, provisions of the 
Resolution;
WHEREAS: (C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, 
and the Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with 
the provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS: (D) the Recipient intends to contract from the Government of 
Switzerland acting through the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), a grant 
(the SDC Grant), in an amount of five million two hundred thousand Swiss 
Francs (SwF 5,200,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the SDC Grant Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Recipient and SDC;
WHEREAS: (E) SDC and the Trustee intend to enter into an agreement 
making arrangements for the Trustee to process applications for withdrawal of 
Page  3
the proceeds of the SDC Grant and regulating certain matters of common interest 
in connection with such grant; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
Page  4
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the 
symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles 
of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Recipient’s Banco
Central
de
Bolivia
;
(b)
"Civil Service Reform Program" means the Recipient’s program 
designed to improve its public administration as described in the Recipient’s 
document entitled Programa
de
Reforma
Administrativa
en
Bolivia
dated 
August 1992;
(c)
"Environmental Law" means the environmental law dated April 27, 
1992 published in the Official Gazette on June 15, 1992;
(d)
"FONAMA" means Fondo
Nacional
para
el
Medio
Ambiente
,
an
agency of the Recipient established pursuant to Article 87 of the Environmental 
Page  5
Law;
(e)
"FONAMA’s By-laws" means the by-laws to be enacted by the 
Recipient, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(f)
"FONAMA’s Investment Program and Budget" means the annual 
program of investments of FONAMA, identifying the sources of financing of all 
such investments;
(g)
"FONAMA’s Operations Manual" means the manual to be 
approved by FONAMA, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(h)
"GET Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
(i)
"Management and Coordination Agreement" means the agreement 
to be entered into between the Recipient and FONAMA pursuant to Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(j)
"Project Unit" means the unit established in FONAMA for purposes 
of the Project;
(k)
"SDC Grant Account" means the account established by SDC for the 
purposes of the SDC Grant;
(l)
"SDC Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(m)
"SENMA" means 
Secretaría
Nacional
del
Medio
Ambiente
,
the 
national environmental secretariat established pursuant to Article 6 of the 
Environmental Law;
(n)
"SENMA's By-laws" means the by-laws of SENMA to be enacted by 
the Recipient, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(o)
"SENMA's Work Program and Budget" means the annual program 
of activities to be carried out by SENMA including its policy, environmental 
quality control, protected areas and legal departments, identifying the sources of 
financing for all such activities;
Page  6
(p)
"SNAP" means Sistema
Nacional
de
Areas
Protegidas
,
the 
Recipient’s national system of protected areas referred to in Article 63 of the 
Environmental Law; and
(q)
"Special Accounts" means collectively the GET Special Account and 
the SDC Special Account.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant 
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant and the SDC Grant may be 
withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and the SDC Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Trustee and in consultation with SDC for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GET Grant and the SDC Grant.
(b)
Except as the Trustee and SDC shall otherwise agree, the allocation 
and withdrawal of the proceeds of the SDC Grant shall be governed mutatis
mutandis
 by the provisions of the General Conditions.
(c)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project: (i) and the GET 
Grant open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee; and (ii) and the SDC Grant, 
open and maintain in Swiss Francs a special deposit account in the Central Bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  7
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project, through SENMA and under the management and 
coordination of FONAMA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices 
and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall make available, as a grant, the proceeds of the 
GET Grant to FONAMA under a management and coordination agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and FONAMA, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Trustee which shall include, inter alia, 
those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Management and 
Coordination Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the GET Grant, and 
except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Management and Coordination Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) performance targets 
and implementation indicators acceptable to the Trustee.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant and the SDC Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall:
(a)
(i) maintain in respect of SENMA, and cause FONAMA to 
maintain: (A) an organizational structure satisfactory to the Trustee; and (B) key 
personnel positions detailed in such organizational structures, filled with 
personnel who shall have experience and qualifications acceptable to the Trustee; 
and (ii) consult with the Trustee with respect to any changes to SENMA’s or 
FONAMA’s organizational structures and any replacement of key personnel 
positions prior to any such change or replacement;
Page  8
(b)
(i) employ, and cause FONAMA to employ, any fixed-term staff 
financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the GET Grant with personnel 
who shall have experience and qualifications acceptable to the Trustee; and (ii) 
consult with the Trustee with respect to any replacement of such fixed-term staff.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
not later than October 31 each year, furnish or cause to be furnished 
to the Trustee, for its approval, the operating plans for each part of the Project 
proposed to be carried out during the following year, including the 
corresponding budgets, and specifying the extent of compliance with the 
operating plans submitted the prior year, and implemented during that year; and
(b)
not later than May 31 and November 30 each year, furnish, or cause 
to be furnished to the Trustee, for its comments, a progress report identifying the 
main Project implementation issues, if any, together with recommendations 
regarding remedial measures, if any, proposed to be taken in relation to the 
Project.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall:
(a)
not later than December 31 each year, review with the Trustee its 
progress in the implementation of the Project and the actions set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in meeting the targets and indicators referred 
to in Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement;
(b)
as part of the annual review to be carried out in 1994, review with 
the Trustee, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, the 
effectiveness in the implementation of the SNAP and of the funding and 
operation of the trust fund referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement; and
(c)
if the results of any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) hereof, are not satisfactory to the Trustee, take all such remedial action, 
satisfactory to the Trustee, as shall be necessary, to achieve the objectives of the 
Project and to meet the performance targets and implementation indicators 
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall, not later than November 30 each year: (a) 
furnish to the Trustee a training program, acceptable to the Trustee, to be carried 
out under Part A.4 of the Project during the following year; and (b) thereafter 
carry out such training program.
Page  9
Section 3.07. (a) The Recipient shall employ a procurement agent 
acceptable to the Trustee, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, 
for the purpose of assisting the Recipient in contracting the consultants and 
procuring the goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the contract or contractual arrangements made with the 
procurement agent referred to in paragraph (a) above in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the GET Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive said contract or contractual 
arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.08. The Recipient shall, in the event the Civil Service Reform 
Program is implemented, include SENMA’s personnel in the initial phase of such 
Program.
Section 3.09. The Recipient shall, not later than October 31 each year, 
furnish to the Trustee for its review, SENMA’s Work Program and Budget for the 
following year.
Section 3.10. The Recipient shall establish, and thereafter maintain, a trust 
fund, under terms and conditions and operating procedures satisfactory to the 
Trustee, which shall include, inter alia, that the income generated by such trust 
fund shall be exclusively allocated to finance the recurrent expenditures (other 
than those financed by the GET Grant) related to the management and operation 
of all the Recipient’s protected areas.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause FONAMA to 
maintain, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have or shall cause FONAMA to have, the records and 
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  10
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish, or cause FONAMA to furnish to the Trustee, as soon 
as available, but in any case not later than six months after 
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish, or cause FONAMA to furnish to the Trustee, such 
other information con-cerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained until at least one year after the 
Trustee has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the GET Grant Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Page  11
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
FONAMA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Management and Coordination Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that FONAMA will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Management and Coordination Agreement.
(c)
The Environmental Law or SENMA’s By-laws or FONAMA’s 
By-laws or FONAMA’s Operations Manual shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the 
Trustee, materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to carry out the 
Project or FONAMA to perform any of its obligations under the Management 
and Coordination Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FONAMA or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of 
the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the SDC Grant 
made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms thereof; or
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Recipient to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Recipient 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Page  12
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement:
(a)
the Management and Coordination Agreement has been executed 
on behalf of the Recipient and FONAMA;
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the SDC Grant 
Agreement, except the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(c)
FONAMA has employed a procurement agent pursuant to Section 
3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
the Recipient has established a trust fund pursuant to Section 3.10 
of this Agreement and has secured contributions to such trust fund in amounts 
not less than the equivalent of $5,000,000; and
(e)
the Recipient has enacted SENMA’s By-laws and FONAMA’s 
By-laws, and FONAMA has approved FONAMA’s Operations Manual.
Section 6.02. The date March 20, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Planning and Coordination
La Paz
Bolivia
Page  13
Cable address:
Telex:
MINPLANEACION
  
3280 (MINCORD 
BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
Page  14
By /s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
and the SDC Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant and the SDC Grant, the allocation of the amounts of 
the GET Grant and the SDC Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
the SDC
Amount of
Grant
the GET
Allocated
Grant
(Expressed
Allocated
in Swiss
(Expressed
% of
Francs
in SDR 
Expenditures
Category
Equivalent)
Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
410,000
240,000
100%
(2)
Goods
690,000
430,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants’
1,630,000
990,000
100%
services and
training
Page  15
(4) Recurrent
Expenditures
(a)
for pay-
280,000
17,000
100%
ments
made on
or before
Decem-
ber 31,
1993
(b) for pay-
590,000
35,000
100%
ments
made
after
Decem-
ber 31,
1993
and on
or before
December
31, 1994
(c) for pay-
520,000
310,000
70%
ments
made
after
Decem-
ber 31,
1994 and
on or
before
Decem-
ber 31,
1995
(d) for pay-
380,000
230,000
50%
ments
made
after
Decem-
ber 31,
1995 and
Page  16
on or
before
Decem-
ber 31,
1996
(e)
for pay-
230,000
140,000
30%
ments
made
after
Decem-
ber 31,
1996
(5)
Operat-
310,000
180,000
100%
ing Ex-
pendi-
tures
(6)
Unallo-
cated
160,000
100,000
TOTAL
5,200,000
3,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Recipient;
(c)
"Recurrent expenditures" means the operating expendi- tures, 
including salaries, associated with the management and operation of the 
protected areas included in the Project; and
(d)
"Operating Expenditures" means the operating expendi- tures of 
the Project Unit.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
Page  17
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
withdrawals from the GET Grant Account and the SDC Grant 
Account shall be made, to the extent possible, at a ratio of 54 to 46.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made 
from the GET Grant Account or the SDC Grant Account was used for any 
expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit 
into the GET Grant Account or the SDC Grant Account, as the case may be, an 
amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the 
Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to ensure the protection of the Recipient’s 
most diverse and threatened ecosystems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Strengthening of SENMA’s National Directorate for Protected Areas and 
Wildlife through the provision of technical advisors, office equipment, vehicles 
and computers required to manage the SNAP.
2.
Development of an information system for the SNAP, including the 
mapping, zoning and land-use and other data analysis of its protected areas; and 
the provision of the computer equipment required therefor.
3.
Development of a system to consolidate the SNAP’s protected areas by 
evaluating, ranking according to priorities, integrating, and redrawing if 
necessary the boundaries of, such protected areas.
4.
Training of SENMA’s staff in basic techniques of planning, management, 
maintenance and protection of parks.
5.
Development of a manual outlining rules, regulations, policies and 
Page  18
procedures for the SNAP, and strengthening SENMA’s capabilities in 
supervising the SNAP and in coordinating law enforcement by the agencies or 
departments of the Recipient concerned with the environment.
6.
Support for the Project Unit to manage and coordinate Project 
implementation.
Part B
:
Priority Protected Areas
1.
Development of environmental management plans for the following 
protected areas: Carrasco N.P., Amboro N.P., Noel Kempf Mercado N.P., 
Eduardo Avaroa F.R. and Ulla Ulla F.R., including guidelines for the protection, 
use and management of their respective natural resources.
2.
Construction of infrastructure needed for the adequate management of 
the protected areas included in Part B.1 hereof (other than Carrasco N.P. and 
Eduardo Avaroa F.R.) and the Beni Biological Station.
3.
Establishment of two protected areas at Alto Madidi and El Chaco, 
including field surveys to determine their respective boundaries, infrastructure 
development, and development of environmental management plans for each 
area.
4.
Strengthening of the participation in the management of protected areas 
by communities affected by activities in, or affecting, the protected areas 
included in the SNAP.
Part C
:
Alternative Management of Natural Resources
1.
Studies to evaluate the economic value of natural resources in areas in and 
around the protected areas referred to in Part B of the Project where sustainable 
harvesting of natural resources is permitted by the Recipient, and recompilation 
of traditional knowledge of such areas, including a study to evaluate the 
economic potential of such areas and the feasibility of establishing sustainable 
harvesting programs.
2.
Studies to develop proposals for the sustainable management and use of 
selected species and in
situ
conservation of germplasm, including the ecological 
studies required to ascertain harvesting levels of the selected species.
Part D
:
Development of Funding Strategies
A
study to evaluate the potential of various revenue sources for the 
Page  19
financing of the long-term management of protected areas.
Part E
:
Annual evaluation and monitoring of activities carried out in the 
Recipient’s protected areas.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods (including vehicles) and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 
1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B
:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described 
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods
(a)
Local Competitive Bidding:
Motorcycles, furniture, equipment, computers, materials and other goods 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, 
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
Page  20
(b)
International Shopping:
Boats, canoes and field and camping equipment, up to aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $180,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
(c)
Local Shopping:
Bicycles, horses, furniture and miscellaneous equipment and materials 
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $91,000, and equipment and materials 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $170,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited 
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
2.
Works
(a)
Local Competitive Bidding:
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
(b)
Shopping
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three contractors eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D
:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part A hereof; and (ii) the first five contracts for 
goods and works procured pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 (a) and C.2 (a) 
Page  21
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to 
be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Trustee as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET Grant Account are to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981, (the "Consultants Guidelines").
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Actions to be taken by the Recipient
By (date)
1.
Employ the advisors included in
Part A.1 of the Project
June 30, 1993
Page  22
2.
Complete the system to be
developed under Part A.3 of
the Project
January 30, 1994
3.
Complete implementation of the
training program to be carried out
under Part A.4 of the Project
August 30, 1997
4.
Furnish to the Trustee for
Three months
its comments, the draft management
before commencing
plans included in Parts B.1
implementation of
and B.3 of the Project
such management
plans
5.
Complete implementation of the
education and extension program
to be carried out under Part B.4
of the Project
June 30, 1997
6.
Complete the studies included in:
(a)
Part C.1 of the Project
February 28, 1995
(b)
Part C.2 of the Project
December 30, 1995
7.
Furnish to the Trustee, for its
comments, the results of the study
included to in Part D of the Project
June 30, 1993
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant and the SDC Grant allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  23
(c)
the term "GET Authorized Allocation" means an amount of SDR 
280,000 to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the 
GET Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
(d)
the term "SDC Authorized Allocation" means an amount of SwF 
400,000 to be withdrawn from the SDC Grant Account and deposited into the 
SDC Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the GET Authorized 
Allocation and the SDC Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the GET Authorized Allocation and the SDC 
Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee a request or 
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the GET Authorized Allocation and the SDC Authorized Allocation respectively. 
On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and the SDC Grant Account 
and deposit in the GET Special Account and the SDC Special Account, 
respectively, such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the respective 
Special Accounts at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and the SDC Grant Account and deposit into the 
GET Special Account and the SDC Special Accounts such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Accounts for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Trustee from the GET Grant Account and the SDC Grant 
Page  24
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Trustee such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant 
Account or the SDC Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant or the SDC 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the GET Authorized Allocation or the SDC Authorized Allocation, 
as the case may be.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account and the SDC Grant Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant and the SDC Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the Trustee 
shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the respective 
Special Accounts shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
Page  25
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account or the SDC Grant 
Account as the case may be for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Management
and Coordination Agreement
The Management and Coordination Agreement shall provide, inter alia, 
the following rights and obligations:
(a)
the Recipient’s obligation to make available to FONAMA, as a 
grant, the proceeds of the GET Grant, so as to enable FONAMA to manage and 
coordinate the Project in the name and on behalf of the Recipient.
(b)
FONAMA’s obligation:
(i) 
to manage and coordinate the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with: (A) sound administrative, 
financial, managerial and environmental practices and 
standards; and (B) FONAMA’s Operations Manual and 
FONAMA’s By-laws;
(ii)
to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project;
(iii)
to maintain the Project Unit, in form and with functions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, to manage and coordinate the 
Page  26
Project, and to staff the said unit with personnel in numbers 
and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(iv)
to furnish to the Trustee for its review, not later than 
October 31 each year, FONAMA’s Investment Program and 
Budget for the following year; and
(v)
to assist the Recipient in meeting the requirements set forth 
in Sections 3.01 through 3.07, and Article IV of this 
Agreement;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Project; and
(d)
the right of the Recipient:
(i)
to inspect, each by itself, or jointly with representatives of the 
Trustee, if the Trustee shall so request, the facilities, sites, 
works and construction included in the Project, the operations 
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(ii)
to obtain all such information as the Recipient or the Trustee 
shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Project and the benefits to be derived from it; and
(iii)
to suspend or terminate the right of FONAMA to use the 
proceeds of the GET Grant upon failure by FONAMA to 
perform any of its obligations under the Management and 
Coordination Agreement.
