Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report %;o. 8061
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTkIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
SEPTEMBER 22, 1989
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDAI       -   Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricol2 et
Industriel
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank)
BRH         -   Banque de la Republique de Haiti
(Central Bank)
FDI         -   Fonds de Developpement Industriel
(Industrial Development Fund)
FHD         -   Fondation Haitienne de Developpement
(Haitian Development Foundation)
ONAPI       -   Office National pour la Promotion des Investissements
(National Office for Investment Promotion)
PAC         -   Project Advisory Committee
PCR         -   Project Completion Report
SOFIHDES    -   Societe Financiere Haitienne de Developpement
(Haitian Development Finance Corporation)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency (Abbreviation): Gourde (G)
Since 1919, the Gourde has been pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of
G5 to US$1.00.
US$1.00        =    G5
Gi                  US$0.20
Gi million     =    US$200,000
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR O"XCIAL USZ ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washinton. D.C J.0433
U.S.A.
0te Ad OmmtcvGeowi
September 22, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTS  Project Completion Report on Haiti
Industrial Credit Protect (Credit 1131-HA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Haiti - Industrial Credit Project (Credit 1131-HA)'
prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office with Part II oi
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attacbment
This document has a metricted distribution and may be used, bY fecpients onlY in the perrhnn nee
of their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed! with,out WorM Bank autbori2Ftioo.



FOR OMCL41 USF, ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDI1' 1131-HA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .........................................                        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY         ................................................    iii
PART I: DESCRIPTION AND ISSUES ...................................       1
1. PROJECT IDENTITY                     ..... 1
2. BACKGROUND                       ......1
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION    ...                            2
Project Objectives and Components          .....                  2
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION   ..............................    2
Organization                     .....   3
Resources and Project Costs . . . .............................   4
5. IMPLEMENTATION                      ..... 5
6. PROJECT RESULTS                     .....   6
Participating Financial Intermediaries....                        8
Guarantee Operations                 .....                        8
Portfolio Quality                  .....   9
Post-Evaluation of Some Investments ................... .....     9
Organization and Staffing ......    ............................  9
Weakness of Review and Supervision .................... .....    10
Operating Results .......     ...................................  10
Technical Assistance .......     ................................  10
Reporting Requirements ........... ..........................    11
7.  IDA'S PERFORMANCE       ............................................  11
8. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE .......     ................................  12
9.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .......    ......................... I ......  13
10.  CONSULTING SERVICES .......    ...................................  13
11. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA ......    .........................  14
PART II:  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..................................     14
1. ACCURACY OF PART III .......   ...................... ............  14
2.  COMMENTS AND ANALYSIS OF PART I ..............................     14
Specific Institutional Issues ..............................     15
Insights from the Field ....................................     16
3.  WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE         .......................................  17
4.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................... ....................    17
5.  EFFECTIVENESS BETWEEN WORLD BANK AND BORROWER ............... .    18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd)
Page No.
PART IIIs  PROJECT COMPLETION PROFILE ...................               18
Table 1 - Related IDA Credits ..8..............................         i
Table 2 - Project Timetable .......................... ................  19
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements and Related Information     ............  20
Table 4 - Project Implementation ......     ............................  21
Table S - Use of Bank Resources ......   ................... 0 . ..     22
Table 6 - Status of Covenants ................................... ..    23
Table 7 - Staff Inputs ............................ ...............     24
ANNEXES
Annex 1:
Table 1 - Analysis of FDI Rediscounting Operations, 1982 to 1987        25
Table 2 - FDI - Characteristics of Loane Rediscounted under
Credit 1131-HA .........................................    26
Table 3 - FDI - Detailed List of Approved Projects by
Financial Intermediaries ..      ............................  29
Table 4 - FDI - Detailed List of Approved Projects by Sector   ......   33
Table 5 - FDI - Detailed List of Approved Projects by Purpose  .....    37
Annex 2s  FDI's Financial Results .................................     41
Table 1 - Projected and Actual Income Statements, 1982-1987 .......     43
Table 2 - Projected and Actual Balance Sheets, FY 1982 to 1987 ....     44
Table 3 - Projected and Actual Financial Ratios, 1982/83-1986/87  ..    45
Annex 3s
Table 1 - The Commercial Banking System - Statement of Condition
at December 31, 1987 ......    ............................  46
Table 2 - Participation of Banks in FDI Rediscounting
operations and Lending Terms ..........................     47
Annex 4: Review of Four Operations Rediscounted by FDI ............     49



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
PREFACE
1.       This report reviews the performance of the First Industrial Credit
(Credit 1131-HA) to Haiti, channelled through the Industrial Development
Fund (FDI) for onlending to final beneficiaries, through financial inter-
mediaries. The Credit in an amount of SDRs 5.7 million was intended to
establish sn effective mechanism to finance the Haitian private industrial
sector, particularly small and medium industrial enterprises, and also help
to deve:J,p a technical assistance program for small and medium enterprises.
It was appraised in July/August 1980, approved on April 14, 1980, declared
effec-ive on December 8, 1981, and closed with disbursements at US$4.8
million on March 31, 1987, 21 months after the original Closing Date.
2.       Parts I and III of  the  Project Completion Report (PCR) were pre-
pared by Trade, Finance and Industry Operations Division, Country Depart-
ment III, Latin America and the Caribbean Region. They are based upon data
obtained during an August 1988 Bank mission to Haiti. The preparatory data
work was carried out by FDI staff, which also prepared Part II of the PCR
based on drafts of Parts I and III.
3.       Parts I and III were  subsequently  changed,  and a revised draft
report was sent to the Borrower for any additional comments; one relatively
minor change was suggested and has been made.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       Starting in  September  1978,  IDA  explored  the  prospects for a
private development bank in Haiti.    However,  in  order to permit a wider
access to term financing, it was found more appropriate that the Government
establish a special fund in the Central Bank to rediscount medium- and
long-term operations for small and medium industrial enterprises, through
eligible financial intermediaries. As a result, the Industrial Development
Fund (FDI) was established by a Decree Law dated March 26, 1981. IDA sup-
ported FDI through the Industrial Credit Project (Credit 1131-HA), approved
on April 14, 1981.
Objectives
2.       The main objectives  of  the  project  supported by Credit 1131-HA
were to:
(a) Establish an effective mechanism to finance the private Haitian
industrial sector, particularly small and medium indastrial enter-
prises, through the provision of medium- and long-term loans;
(b) Assist the Central Bank in strengthening its capabilities to
supervise and evaluate the performance of financial institutions;
and
(c) Help to develop a technical assistance program for small and
medium enterprises and to strengthen the institutional capabili-
ties of the National Office of Investment Promotion (ONAPI) to
provide such assistance (para. 3.1, Part I of PCR).
Implementation Experience
3.       The last disbursement  took  place  20  months  after the original
Closing Date of June 30,  1985.    An  undisbursed balance of SDRs 206,286,
from the credit component, was cancelled on March 31, 1987. By the time
the project became effective on December 8, 1981, the economic environment
had seriously deteriorated, due mainly to the recession in Haiti's main
trading partner, the U.S.   As  a matter of fact, 1981--the Credit's first
year--saw a 32 drop in Haiti's GDP, followed by a similar performance in
1982. Consequently, FDI did not begin its operations until the end of 1982
(paras. 5.1-5.2, Part I of the PCR). FDI's implementation performance was
satisfactory, particularly considering that it had to take over ONAPI's



- iv -
technical assistance functions.    It  took  an  active promotional role in
sensitizing the commercial banking system to term lending and developed and
financed a credible line of  114  projects  (paras.  6.3-6.5, Part I of the
PCR).
Results
4.       As of September 30, 1987, FDI had approved 134 projects, amounting
to US$8.1 million equivalent and covering 103 enterprises. As of March
1989, tbere are 18 outstanding loans, of which 5 present some problems of
repayment.  The rest of the  subloans  have been fully repaid.  The invest-
ments created 1,590 jobs at US$9,894 each, against the appraisal projec-
tions of 2,000 jobs.   FDI  lent  assistance  in the creation of new micro-
enterprises, which would not have had access to sources of finance
otherwise. Every U.S. dollar disbursed by IDA mobilized more than two
dollars of local resources (paras. 6.2 and 6.5, Part I of the PCR).
5.       Although ONAPI, which was  to  provide  technical assistance, was
abolished, FDI took over and did a relatively good job in providing that
assistance. it assisted a number of enterprises, through consultant ser-
vices, in preparing feasibility studies and provided in-house support to
identify major problems and implement corrective measures. This function
is considered very important, and would be further strengthened under the
follow-up Industrial Restructuring and Development Project (paras. 4.9-4.11
and 6.1 in Part I and Table 1 of Part III of the PCR).
6.       The Supervision Department of  the Central Bank received technical
assistance under this operation, and did a relatively good job in providing
information to FDI on the eligibility of institutions to participate in the
Credit. However, the follow-up and supervision of banking operations has
been poor.   Nevertheless,  as  FDI  dealt  mainly  with private commercial
banks, FDI operations have been affected only slightly by the overall in-
adequate supervision of the banking sector. FDI undertook to supervise its
own operations, and its performance has varied from very good to inade-
quate.   Performance  results  were  primarily  affected  by  staff changes
(paras. 4.9-4.10 and 6.10-6.11 in Part I of the PCR).
7.       The Project Advisory Committee (PAC), created under the Decree-Law
setting up FDI, met  officially  only  twice.   However, FDI management, on
several occasions when it needed the support of the Government, took the
initiative of ca]ling meetings of the Governor and several relevant
Ministries. PAC was also to be the vehicle to facilitate a policy dialogue
with IDA, and even though PAC did not facilitate this process, IDA was able
to initiate a policy dialogue with the Government, specifically on trade
policy issues and on the overall industrial regulatory framework. As a
result of this dialogue, sweeping trade policy reforms took place, as well
as major initiatives in industrial restructuring, which were subsequently
supported by the Economic Recovery Credit (1766-HA) and Technical Assis-
tance Credit (1786-HA). Industrial restructuring efforts initiated by FDI
under the above Technical Assistance Credit would be supported by a pro-
posed Industrial Restructuring Project (paras. 4.6 and 8.1, Part I, &nd
Table 1 of Part III, of the PCR).



-v-
Sustainability
8.       Overall, FDI has performed satisfactorily.  Due to several manage-
ment changes, there were periods of excellent performance, but also periods
cf poor performance. FDI is currently soundly managed. Most of its proj-
ects have done well, while a  few have suffered seriously especially during
the last two years due to trade liberalization, contraband, and the overall
uncertain investment climate. FDI should continue, however, to strengthen
tts institutional capability by attracting qualified staff and strength-
ening its supervision performance (PCR, Part I, para. 9.2, and Table 1,
Part III).
Findings and Lessons
9.       The project is considered  a  success  as  it achieved its primary
objective, which was to establish FDI as an effective vehicle to provide
term financing to small and medium  enterprises.  ONAPI, which was assigned
responsibility to provide technical  assistance, was dismantled.  Neverthe-
less, i.s function was transferred  to  FDI,  and FDI did a relatively good
job in carrying out this function.  The project has demonstrated the impor-
tance of sound institutional management and close project supervision in
attaining project objectives.  FDI has successfully initiated an industrial
restructuring program, and would be further strengthened under the proposed
Industrial Restructuring  and  Development  Project,  to continue providing
technical assistance to  industrial  enterprises.   Staff training provided
under the above operation would also strengthen the capabilities of FDI's
and the FIs' staff in project preparation and supervision. Extension ser-
vices and assistance in preparing bankable projects have demonstrated to be
important services, which FDI should continue to provide. FDI's lending
could again be affected as its foreign exchange resources get depleted in
the future. To this effect, IDA would seek the Government's commitment to
replenish FDI's foreign exchange resources by exchanging accumulated
gourdes from loan recoveries for foreign  exclhange.   The PAC would also be
revived under the follow-up operation, to oversee FDI's overall policies
and operations (para. 9.1, Part I, and Table 1, Part III, of the PCR).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
PART I: DESCRIPTION AND ISSUES
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
1.1      The Industrial Credit Project was  financed by IDA (Credit 1131-HA
for SDRs 5.7 million) and processed by the Industrial Development and
Finance Division 1. Projects Department, Latin America and Caribbean
Regional Office.
1.2      The Project was instrlmental in setting-up a second-tier financial
institution involved in rediscounting  loans  granted by the banking system
to Haitian-owned small- and medium-scale enterprises in the handicraft,
manufacturing, mining, agroindustries, fishing, tourism, and service sub-
sectors.
2. BACKGROUND
2.1      Haiti's industrial sector is  characterized by two separate struc-
tures that have emerged under two different trade regimes: (i) import-
substitution industries,  serv..ng  the  local  maLk;..  and, until recently,
highly-protected from external competition; and (ii) the export assembly
sector, operating under a  free  trade  regime.   Haiti's industrial sector
experienced its most dynamic growth in the 1970s -- at a rapid rate of 1O0
per annum in real terms, due primarily to the establishment and expansion
uf the export assembly  sector.    However,  growth was not sustained, and,
with the exception of a brief surge of activity in 1982/83, industry has
been in an overall decline since 1981.
2.2      Until mid-1986, the  industrial  sector  operated in a highly-pro-
tected environment, including tariffs as high as 200t and quantitative
restrictions on imports. In July 1986, the Government of Haiti, with IDA
support (Credit 1766-HA), reduced and simplified import tariffs, replaced
specific tariffs with ad valorem tariffs, and removed most quantitative
restrictions.
2.3      Haiti's industriil sector has suffered for many years from a scar-
city of term financing, lack of technical assistance, inadequate supply of
raw materials, and limited managerial capabilities and skilled labor.
Moreover, for the past two year, the sector has been affected by trade
liberalization, a massive increase a.n contraband, and political uncer-
tainty. Credit 1131-HA aimed at removing, term financing constraints, while



- 2 -
providing the needed technical assistance, with the follow-up operation
(Economic Recovery Program, Credit 1766-HA) directed at the sector policy
objectives, including trade policy reforms, market liberalization, and the
restructuring and closure of certain inefficient public enterprises.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Prolect Objectives and Components
3.1      The project's primary  objective  was  to support the Government's
policy to promote Haiti's industrial development, by financing industrial
operations and providing limited technical assistance. The project was to
be the vehicle for initiating a policy dialogue with the Government on the
effectiveness of industrial and rinancial policies and regulations, in-
cluding possible measu,-es to strengthen the financial system and improve
the allocation of resources.   More  specifically, the project was designed
to:
a)  Establish an effective  mechanism  (a second-tier institution, the
Fonds de Developpement Industriel,  FDI")  to finance the Haitian
private industrial sector, particularly small and medium indus-
trial enterprises, through the provision of medium- and long-term
loans;
b)  StrLngthen  the  capabilities  of  the  Supervision  Department of
Haiti's Central Bank ("Banque de la Rep6blique d'Haiti, BRHI) to
supervise and evaluate the performance of financial institutions;
and
c)  Assist to develop  a  technical  assistance  program for small and
medium enterprises and to strengthen the institutional capabili-
ties of the National Office for Investment Promotion (ONAPI).
3.2      The project's components included:   (i) US$6.0 million for indus-
trial credit to finance small- and medium-scale enterprises; and (ii)
US$1.0 million for technical assistance activities, including US$375,000
advanced under a  Project  Preparation  Facility  (PPF).   The latter would
strengthen ONAPI and BRH's Supervision Department and provide training to
FDI staff.
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1      The FDI was established under BRH, but with separate resources and
staff, to act as implementing agency and provide term financing to indus-
trial operations. Under this two-tier credit system, FDI would act as a
second-tier institution, with a network of participating financial inter-
mediaries approved by BRH.    All  financial institutions accredited by BRH
and whose arrears were below 25Z of their loan portfolios were eligible to



- 3 -
participate in the FDI scheme.    The intermediaries were to be responsible
for administering all subloans to industrial beneficiaries approved by FDI.
FDI, in cooperation with BRH's Supervision Department, would follow up on
the intermediaries' operations and would monitor the performance of firms
financed under the scheme.   Technical  assistance to the beneficiaries was
to be the task of ONAPI, which was established in 1979 and was still being
organized at the time of appraisal.
4.2      FDI lending activi-ies were to  be  conducted pursuant to a State-
ment of Policies, which, after IDA approval, was adopted by BRH's Board of
Directors.    The  operating  criteria,  stipulated  in  this  Statement of
Policies, are summarized below.
4.3      FDI would finance  investment  projects  and  operations of new or
existing Haitian-ownedl private enterprises engaged in handicrafts, manu-
facturing, agroindustries, fishing, mining, tourism, transport, and indus-
trial construction, as well as ancillary service enterprises, including the
purchase, construction, or renovation of equipment, machinery ana cargo
vehicles, civil works, and industrial buildings, as well as working capi-
tal, preinvestment studies, and technical assistance services.
4.4      To make FDI term resources  availablc  to a large number of firms,
the  maximum  FDI  financing  per  beneficiary  was  initially  limited  to
US$250,000, including repeater operations (po8... .ble only if 50Z of previous
subloans had been repaid).  To induce particip.ting banks to handle esaller
loans, a higher spread (6Z, as compared to 5Z for loans above US$50,000)
was to be provided for operations under US$50,000. To encourage financial
intermediaries to provide medium- and long-term lending to small and medium
enterprises, FDI was authorized to provide guarantees at the request of
financial intermediaries simultaneously with the specific FDI subloans, but
limited to a portion of the principal discounted. To keep the portfolio
risk assumed by FDI to an acceptable level, the maximum amount of guaran-
tees provided by FDI was limited to 40Z of FDI's total financial assets
(cash and rediscount  portfolio).    Furthermore,  provi  on  for losses on
guarantee operations would have first  call on operating  -ofits, until the
provision reached (and remained at) 25Z of the total an-junt of guarantees
still in force.
Organization
4.5      FDI's personnel structure consisted of  a Director and two profes-
sionals, supported by a consultant with an economic and financial back-
ground and experience in industrial sector technical assistance programs
and a small number of administrative and clerical staff.
4.6      A Project  Advisory  Committee  was  established,  chaired  by the
Governor of BRH, and comprising FDI's Director and representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Iniustry and
Commerce, the Ministry of Planning, ONAPI, the participating financial
1/ This was defined as any enterprise in which Haitian interests had at
least 51Z of the equity.



- 4 -
intermediaries, and the Association of Industrialists. The Committee was
to be instrumental in obtaining the cooperation of Government agencies to
implement the project and in monitoring overall industrial and credit
policies.
Resources and Project Costs
4.7      FDI was to be established  on  a sound financial basis, with sepa-
rate accounting, auditing, and financial reporting. Its initial resources,
allocated by the Government, would  include:    a) US$6.0 million, from the
credit component of the IDA credit; and b) US$1.0 million equivalent, pro-
vided by the Government as counterpart  funds.   The total project cLst was
estimated at US$11.0 million; total investments to be financed were fore-
cast at US$10.0 million (financed by the Government, US$1.0 million; IDA,
US$6.0 million; and financial intermediaries and enterprises, US$3.0 mil-
lion); and technical assistance was estimated at US$1.0 million.
4.8      Early approval, in March 1980, of the PPF made possible the timely
preparation of FDI's basic documents, including the General Statement of
Policies and Procedures, Operations Manuals, and Guidelines for Financial
Intermediaries and Beneficiaries.
4.9      The project's concept was  sound,  based on clear-cut criteria and
guidelines for  implementation.    Borrower  representatives understood and
agreed to the contribution that all agencies involved in the Project had to
bring to its success.  However, two  entities that were expected to play an
integral role in this endeavor failed to do so:
a) BRH's Supervision Department was entrusted with two duties.
First, it was responsible for conducting an evaluation of the
creditworthiness of financial intermediaries which were to enter
into a participation agreement with FDI, a task which was carried
out satisfactorily. Second, it was to provide FDI with periodic
evaluation reports on the performance of these financial inter-
mediaries, with particular attention given to those operations
financed by FDI. This second task was never performed; and
b) ONAPI was expected to develop a technical assistance program for
small and medium enterprises, to complement FDI's financial assis-
tance. Despite the use of a consultant financed under the proj-
ect, ONAPI was unable to overcome its institutional deficiencies,
It was eventually disbanded early in 1984.
4.10     The Staff Appraisal Report  (SAR)  stated  that development of the
supervision capabilities of BRH's Supervision Department would be slow,
thereby risking project implementation delays. In this regard, the Depart-
ment in question never achieved the proficiency needed for this task.
ONAPI's failure is attributed to the limited expertise of its staff and
FDI's failure to spell out the services expected from ONAPI.
i



S.   WPLEMENTATION
5.1      Appraisal was completed by August 1980, and negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C., during February 11-20, 1981. Two conditions of Board
presentation were quickly met, including the signing of an Official Decree
establishing FDI as an independent institution and specifying operating
criteria, ownership, and  financing.    The  Board  approved this Credit on
April 14, 1981, signing followed on June 8, 1981, and the Project became
effective on December 8, 1981.
5.2      By this time, however,  the economic environment had deteriorated,
due mainly to the recession in Haiti's main trading partner, the U.S. As a
matter of fact, 1981 -- which should have been the Credit's first year --
s&w a 3? drop in Heiti's GDP, followed by a similar performance in 1982.
Consequently, FDI did not begin its operations until FY 1983 (October 1,
1982 to September 30, 1983).
5.3      Based on  experience  in  the  start-up  operations,  FDI's redis-
counting was gradually simplified,  as  follows:    (i) the rediscount per-
centage moved up to 90? of the loan granted, from an original limit of
US$250,000 -- for an average of 802 -- with an upper limit of US$500,000;
(ii) guarantees went up to 75? of rediscount amount, from 60?, with a limit
of US$200,000; (iii) a spread to financial intermediaries of 6? for redis-
counts up to US$100,000, and 5? for all rediscounts of over US$100,000; and
(iv) guarantee fees of 2?, payable by the intermediary.
5.4      The project was carried out  over  a six-year period, from FY 1982
(October 1, 1981 to September 30, 1982) to FY 1987, although activity
during the first year was negligible. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), in
its financial tables, showed a five-year span, and estimated that FDI would
need additional resources in its fourth and fifth years, if projected
operations were to naterialize.   FDI  has  not received any additional re-
sources thus far.
5.5      For the purpose of  comparing  actual results with appraisal esti-
mates, this report will look at the six-year period during which FDI dis-
bursed Credit funds. The Tables comprising Annex 1 present FDI's redis-
counting operations. A summary of these operations is presented below.



-6-
FDI Operations. 1982 to 1987
(In USM Thousands)
FY    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986    1987    TotIal
Amount of Actual
Approvals               18  1,688  2,822   1,979    781   1,026    7,994
Appraisal Estimte.    2,000   2,200   2,800   3,900   4,200     -    16,000
Number *t Projects       1      69      26      11      8       5       114
Disbursements            17   1,306   2,381   1,646   1,095    694    7,019
Appraisal Estimte.    1,600  2,090   2,680   8,230   8,910      -    18,460
Portfol?o               17    9"   2,29S   2,481   2,916   3,167      8,167
Appraisal EvtAates    1,440   2,920   4,790   7,220   9,980     -     9,980
5.6      Performance fell below appraisal targets  for a number of reasons.
First, as mentioned in para. 5.4  above,  the SAR (p. 15, para. 3.15) indi-
cated that, by the fourth project year, FDI was expected to secure addi-
tional resources under conditions similar to those of the IDA Credit.  This
did not materialize. On the contrary, by FY 1984 it was obvious to the
supervision missions that all available FDI resources would be fully com-
mitted by 1985 and that new funding, possibly from IDA, would be needed
early in 1986.   For  reasons  discussed  in  para.  7.2, IDA was unable to
process a follow-up project in time.
5.7      Second, the amount of resources  which the appraisal report stated
would be made available to FDI did not fully materialize, in spite of the
Government's contribution, as planned, of US$1.0 million at FDI's incep-
tion. This shortfall was due to the fluctuations of the SDR against the
U.S. dollar during the years when most disbursements were made. The Credit
was denominated in SDRs (5.7 million), which at the time of negotiations
was equivalent to US$7.0 million.    Of  this amount, SDRs 4.8 million were
for rediscounting operations, and about SDRs 0.9 million, for technical
assistance. The SDRs 4.8 million were expected to generate about US$6.0
million, but the aforementioned fluctuations reduced the U.S. dollar amount
actually disbursed by IDA for FDI rediscounting operations to US$4,766,000.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
6.1      FDI's  lending  performance  was  satisfactory,  particularly con-
sidering that it assumed supervision of operations with the financial
intermediaries from BRHI's Supervision Department and totally replaced ONAPI
as the responsible agency for the technical assistance component. The
latter undertaking was essential in developing a credible pipeline of proj-
ects to be financed, and FDI's best years were those in which it made a
strong promotional effort.



6.2      In its six years of operation,  FDI redisc'unted 114 loans made by
commercial  banks  to  small-   and  medium-scale  industrial  enterprises.
Table 1 of Annex 1 shows the sectoral distribution of these operations. An
analysis of the financing and jobs created is s9umarized below.
Analysis of FD! Operations. 1962 to 1987
(In USS Thousands)
Tota I                               No. of     Average
No. of       Project       FDI          IDA          Job      Cost per
Operations      Cost     Rediseountina   Disbursements   Created  Job in MSI
114            15,732     7,94          4,766         1,690    9,894
Average per
Operation           188        70            42            14        -
X of Financing              60.8X          80.3X
These 114 operations amounted to  US$15.7 million, to which FDI contributed
US$8.0 million, or 50.8Z, with enterprises and the banking sector making up
the balance. IDA disbursed funds, US$4.8 million, represented 59.6Z of FDI
rediscounts2 and 30.3Z of total project costs. Every U.S. dollar disbursed
by IDA mobilized more than two dollars of local resources. The investments
created approximately 1,590 jobs, at an average cost per job of US$9,894.
However, FDI's ad hoc supervision made it very difficult to confirm the
actual number of jobs  created.    It  should be recognized that collecting
data from local enterprises is a most difficult exercise, as some (if not
most) enterprises keep two or, sometimes, three sets of accounts; some
enterprises still have no proper accounts at all.
6.3      As of September 30, 1987, FDI had approved 114 subloans, amounting
to US$8.1 million equivalent and covering 103 enterprises. Distribution of
Credit proceeds through financial intermediaries is shown in Annex 3,
Table 2. Nearly 75? of the approved amount covered medium- and long-term
operations (2 to 7 years), with the remainder covering operations from 6
months to 2 years.   Seventy-nine  percent  (79Z) of FDI's rediscounts sup-
ported the manufacturing and agroindustrial sectors (462 and 33?, respec-
tively).   Construction,  fisheries,  and  other  subsectors  comprised the
balance (see Annex 1, Table 1).
6.4      Through this  operation,  FDI  achieved  the following objectives:
(i) lent assistance in the creation of new microenterprises (which normally
21 The Loan Agreement provided for disbursements of 86Z on subloans
discounted by FDI.   When  FDI  started accumulating local currency from
loan repayments, it provided rediscounting from its own funds.



- 8 -
do not have access to traditional sources of finance) and the expansion of
existing ones; (ii) assisted small- and medium-sized enterprises with
working capital for importing raw materials; (iii) met term financing needs
of small- and medium-sized enterprises; and (iv) provided extension ser-
vices to a number of small and medium enterprises.
6.5      Forty-five microenterprises (22 new and 23 existing) were assisted
through the 'Fondation Haitienne de Developpement (FHD),* a development
bank geared to small-scale industry promotion, creating 333 new jobs at
around US$2,000 per job.   FDI  resources allocated to this sector totalled
US$300,000. Thirty-nine subloans, amounting to US$1.9 million, addressed
the working capital needs of around 30 small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Thirty rediscount operations covered medium- and long-term financing for 28
small- and medium-sized enterprises for a period of 1-7 years, amounting to
US$5.9 million. Seventeen operations covered expansion and modernization
needs, and 13, the creation of new enterprises. Subloan size varied from
US$14,000 to US$0.5 million equivalent.
Participating Financial Intermediaries
6.6      There are nine  institutions  operating  in the commercial banking
system in Haiti.    Their  classification  according  to  assets held at 31
December 1987 is detailed in Annex 3, Table 1. Eight banks were declared
eligible by the Central Bank to access FDI funds. FDI rediscounted loans
granted by six of these banks, three of which are local (BNC, SOGEBANK and
BUH) and tAree, foreign (BNP,  FNBB  and  Citibank).   In addition to these
six, FDI extended its operations, although on a very limited scale, to two
local development banks (BNDAI and SOFHIDES) and to FHD, which caters to
very small enterprises.    FDI  rediscounted  with  local  banks 73S of its
operations and 68.4S of the loan amount. Twenty-five percent (25Z) of the
loans rediscounted by FDI were for short-term lending, and 75S for long-
term. Table 2 of Annex 3 shows the various banks' participation in FDI
rediscounting and the amounts of term lending.
Guarantee Operations
6.7      FDI, upon request by a  commercial  bank and after scrutiny of the
credit file, can issue guarantees on loans it has rediscounted, with a
ceiling of 75Z of the amount discounted and a limit of US$200,000 per
guarantee. FDI is further limited to issue guarantees up to 252 of its
available resources. Up to 30 September 1987, this limit was about US$1.5
million (25? of FDI's resources of about US$6.0 million), and during its
five years of operation, FDI had issued 14 guarantees, totalling US$1.1
million. Of these, nine were still outstanding at 30 September 1987,
totalling US$407,925. Five of the enterprises for which FDI guaranteed
loans have experienced problems, and two of these have ceased repayment.
All five investments had been processed and approved by commercial banks,
with FDI assuming only a  rediscounting  role.   While some of these enter-
prises rallied after debt rescheduling, payments made by FDI as a result of
these guarantees totalled US$127,000.   FDI  has created a reserve fund for
such risks, which is now being reconstituted, so as to maintain it at 25S
of the guarantee exposure. The four cases evaluated by FDI and analyzed in
Annex 4 of this report have not received FDI guarantees.



-9-
Portfolio Quality
6.8      Debt service on amounts outstanding on rediscounting operations is
debited monthly, through the Central Bank, to the accounts of the commer-
cial banks. This is done automatically and, therefore, FDI does not exper-
ience defaults, unless a commercial bank asks FDI to delay collecting its
debt service because of such default. Only two such cases have been regis-
tered in all, one for a company that went bankrupt and the other for an
enterprise  that  went  through  severe  financial  difficulties.    At  30
September 1987, FDI reported that 18 loans were still outstanding,
totalling US$3,167,009, five of which presented some problems (including
the two above). In three cases, debt service had to be rescheduled, pro-
viding temporary relief; the total outstanding on these five loans was
US$293,249, which represented less than 42 of total FDI disbursements up to
30 September 1987.
Post-Evaluation of Some Investments
6.9      In preparation for this report, FDI provided IDA with an extensive
review of four specific projects financed under the Credit. These reviews
are on file in the LAC Information Center, and IDA's comments are attached
as Annex 4. Of the four enterprises, two (a printing company and a phar-
maceutical manufacturer) used the funds efficiently, managing to achieve
their initial targets. This confirms that FDI was able to sensitize some
small concerns on the need to improve and expand their operations an4 to
borrow for these  purposes.    Two  enterprises  (a  fishing  company and a
chicken-feed producer) did not perform  well.    In the first case, lack of
proper maintenance frequently immobilized its fleet. In the second, rising
production costs were not contained, thereby causing the profit margin to
disappear. The latter highlights the need for renewed technical assistance
to small-scale enterprises.    Under  the proposed Industrial Restructuring
and Development Project, FDI's technical assistance functions would be
broadened and strengthened to provide the needed assistance.
Organization and Staffing
6.10     Through September  1987,  FDI's  organizational  structure  was as
follows: one General Manager, one Deputy General Manager, and one Opera-
tions Manager (all three senior executives), assisted by an expatriate
Technical Assistant who acted as Adviser to the General Manager (financed
during the first three years from Credit proceeds and for the last two
years under the Technical Assistance Credit -- Credit 1786-HA); one Admin-
istrative and Financial Manager, assisted by one Personnel Officer; and 10
support staff.  This was the core  staff.   From time to time, FDI made use
of local consultants to complement its staff. The experience with consul-
tancy services has not been very satisfactory. Although FDI has been suc-
cessful in its efforts to recruit and train operations officers to help in
the supervision of ongoing operations, more attractive offers from the
private banking sector have caused a high turnover.



- 10 -
6.11     In the six years under  examination,  FDI experienced a high turn-
overt three General Managers; two Operations Managers; and threo Admin-
istrative and Financial Managers. This is the main reason why the expatri-
ate Technical Assistant, originally scheduled for the two-year project
start-up period only, is still in poet. He was instrumental in holding the
institution together (especially during the last two years of greatest
turmoil),  and  starting  some  of  the  technical  assistance  schemes and
training efforts.  But, to some extent,  his role as an Adviser has limited
his contribution and influence on the decision-making process.
Weakness of Review and Supervision
6.12     As a result of the  high  turnover and particularly because of the
absence of experienced operations officers, FDI's supervision of borrowers'
performance, its ability to collect comprehensive data on the use of loaned
funds, and, more importantly, its ability to evaluate actual results have
been limited. Even upstream, FDI's evaluation of projects submitted by
potential borrowers seems inadequate, as can be seen from para. 6.8 above.
Although required to do so by its Operations Manual, computer printouts
provided by FDI show that financial rates of return were calculated for
only 10 projects of the 114 operations financed during the project life
(see Annex 1, Tables 3 to 5).
6.13     In summing up, it  can  be  said  that  FDI, while not becoming as
efficient a financial institution as expected, did some pioneering work in
sensitizing the industrial sector to the need for restructuring and the
commercial banking sector to the need for term lending, and helped to pro-
vide badly-needed financial assistance that would not have been available
otherwise. The Government's failure, and IDA's inability, to make the
other institutional partners play their role fully in this project were
partly the cause of FDI's limited success in supervision and in providing
technical assistance to enterprises.
Operating Results
6.14     Annex 2, Table 1, shows the projected and actual income statements
for FDI, from project start through 30 September 1987. Overall, it can be
said that FDI had a balanced operation, covering its expenditure from its
income, but not being able to generate a surplus large enough to create an
adequate provision for losses on its  guarantees.   Table 2, Annex 2, shows
comparisons between the SAR projections and actual Balance Sheet figures;
Table 3 gives financial ratios.
Technical Assistance
6.15     The  technical  assistance   component,  amounting  to US$958,618
(including US$374,800 of the PPF), was allocated as follows: US$61,882
provided support to the Supervision Department of the Central Bank;
US$151,412, supported ONAPI; and the remaining US$745,324 was allocated to
FDI, to support consultant services, training seminars, extension P'rvices,
and project studies.



- 11 -
Reportina Requirements
6.16     Since its establishment in  1981,  FDI's  accounts have been regu-
larly audited by external auditors -- Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. The
short-form auditors' reports have had no negative comments on FDI's
accounts. Detailed supporting documentation, however, has sometimes raised
issues on specific shortcomings in internal auditing and control and, par-
ticularly, on the unsatisfactory level of supervision carried out by FDI on
its investments.
7, IDA'S PERFORMANCE
7.1      IDA was diligent  in  facilitating  project preparation, including
the granting of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and active participa-
tion of several pre-appraisal  missions.   Supervision missions visited FD,
regularly twice a year, and, in the early stages were very helpful in iden-
tifying problems impeding project implementation. These missions were also
very quick in recommending, or accepting FDI's requests for, changes in the
original project design, particularly with regard to procedures, levels,
and conditions for rediscounting and guarantees, amend4ig these to adapt
FDI's operations to Haiti's environment.
7.2      However, most of the institutional  inputs that had to be provided
by different Government agencies did not materialize (see Section 4). IDA
had to continually engage the Government in a dialogue to try to remove the
constraints facing FDI.    The  actions  of  the  supervision missions were
crucial in resolving some of the problems, but two issues remained un-
resolved. First, despite their repeated interventions, the supervision
missions were unable to obtain action on ONAPI's failure to fulfill its
important technical assistance role in the project. Second, although IDA,
through its supervision missions and by special communications to the
Minister of Finance, alerted the Haitian authorities on the critical impor-
tance of converting some of FDI's reserves in local currencies into foreign
exchange, it was unable to convince them to do so. The series of events
which led to, and followed, Duvalier's departure can partly explain the
Government's inability to follow through, even though IDA received promises
to that effect. Because of the depletion of its foreign exchange resources
and its inability to mobilize Government help, FDI's management started
looking at other aid agencies (Canadian International Development Agency
and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique of France), without success,
Events in Haiti since 1986 had their impact on the design and timing of a
follow-up IDA operation, which was not scheduled in the lending program
until FY 1989.   Although  preparation  took  place in May 1988, subsequent
periodic political and social upheavals further delayed appraisal to May
1989.



- 12 -
8. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
8.1      The Borrover was very efficient  in  completing the legal and pro-
cedural actions needed to bring FDI into being: conditions of effective-
ness were met quickly, enabling FDI to start operations as scheduled.
Subsequently, FDI was unsuccessful in obtaining the cooperation of BRH or
ONAPI, which were to bring sit essential contribution to project development
(see Section 4), while the Government failed to act on these matters. IDA
and its supervision missions raised this issue repeatedly, with no results.
Even the Project Advisory Committee (PAC) (para. 4.6), set up according to
the stipulations in t',e Credit's Legal Documents, met formally only twice,
and did not bring to FDI the assistance and guidance which were expected,
neither in the relationship between FDI and other Government agencies, nor
in the analysis of existing and contemplated industrial and credit poli-
cies. However, FDI management, in trying to resolve some issues, took the
initiative at various times in calling meetings with the Governor of the
Central Bank and several relevant Ministries.   Even though the PAC did not
facilitate a policy dialogue with IDA, as was expected, IDA was able to
establish this dialogue with the Government through the follow-up operation
(the Economic Recovery Credit, Credit 1766-HA). which supported sweeping
trade policy reforms. During project implementation, and in the absence of
inputs from other institutions, IDA, directly or through the supervision
missions, played an increasing role iu managing the project. FDI always
looked to IDA to solve the problems it faced, while this responsibility
should have been placed in the hands of the Haitian authorities, particu-
larly the BRH.
8.2      By 1986, FDI,  through  its  promotion  activities, had managed to
bring about an active cooperation between the banking and industrial com-
munities. The industrial sector was made aware of the need to restructure
and improve its performance, and the banking system finally became willing
to venture into term lending. It was the first time that such a structure
had emerged, devoted entirely to promoting the industrial sector. Unfor-
tunately, the limited, but essential, momentum thus created for FDI to
become an efficient financial institution was slowed down by the lack of
foreign exchange resources, which limited its lending operations. Access
to those resources should have been provided by the Government. On the
whole, however, FDI was able to accomplish most projezt objectives,
including lending assistance in the creation of new enterprises, financial
assistance to new and existing enterprises, and technical assistance, but
only for a limited time.   In addition, through this project, FDI mobilized
additional resources that would not have been made available in the absence
of this operation.
8.3      At the beginning  of  project  implementation, the unfavorable in-
vestment climate caused by the economic recession of the early 1960s re-
duced investment demand. Furthermore, in the project's early stages, com-
mercial banks showed, in addition to their lack of experience in second-
tier type of lending, a lack of interest in making long-term loans for



- 13 -
industrial investments, preferring to continue to concentrate their opera-
tions on short-term lending activities -- mostly foreign-trade operations
-- which are less risky and more profitable. Even when the banking system
started processing loans and mobilizing FDI funds, their contribution in
following up the  investments  and  supervising  the borrowers' performance
was, and still is, very limited.
9. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
9.1      Haiti's industrial development  was  promoted by the establishment
of FDI as a second-tier rediscounting facility and the latter's encourage-
ment of the banking sector to provide term financing to small and medium
industrial enterprises. FDI has an important role to play in the future
since the indust.ial sector is still at an early stage of development, and
FDI iu the only term lending institution in Haiti. The main constraint at
this time is the shortage of foreign exchange resources. A follow-up IDA
operation (an Industrial Restructuring and Development Project) would
ensure that the Government commit itself to regularly convert a portion of
FDI's income (from loan repayments, which are in local currency) into
foreign exchange.
9.2      Under the proposed operation, FDI would continue to strengthen its
institutional capability, particularly by attracting qualified professional
staff and by incorporating mechanisms to improve its supervision perfor-
mance. Furthermore, the scope of FDI activities in identifying and pre-
paring  bankable  projects  and   providing  extension  services  would  be
broadened. FDI's role in assisting industrial enterprises to restructure,
so as to adjust to the new environment created by trade liberalizat!.on,
will be crucial in ensuring that the trade reforms' potential benefits
materialize in a more dynamic and competitive industrial sector and that
backsliding does not occur.
10. CONSULTING SERVICES
10.1     The objectives of the technical assistance component of the credit
vere only partly achieved.    In  particular,  the  programs that ONAPI was
expected to implement never materialized, since the institution was even-
tually abolished. FDI managed to hire consultants to implement an indus-
trial extension service, vhich helped a number of enterprises identify
their problems and reach some practical solutions. But the funds available
for this purpose under the project were socin exhausted, and these
activities were considerably slowed down.
10.2     The provision of an expatriate  Advisor  to FDI's management was a
positive step, since he was instrumental in organizing the institution --
particularly since senior staff turnover (including the General Manager, as
mentioned before) was detrimental to strong institutional leadership.



- 14 -
11. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
11.1     The main constraint to FDI  operations  is the growing scarcity of
foreign exchange and the Government's inability to replenish these re-
sources. This aspect was not covered In the Credit's Legal Documents,
prob&bly because during project processing it was assumed that FDI would be
able to mobilize such funds from other sources, which did not materialize.
11.2     But even when adequate  stipulations  were introduced in the Legal
Documents, as in the case of ONAPI's responsibility to deliver technical
assistance to small-scale enterprises and the BRH Supervision Department's
co mitment to properly supervise the financial intermediaries, IDA was
unable to obtain  compliance.    Similarly,  although  the Credit Agreement
stipulated the establishment of the PAC and its operation in a form and
substance acceptable to IDA, it did not elaborate how it would be enforced
to perform as agreed.    In  future,  covenants  whose enforcement could be
problematic should be fully treated in the risks sections of the projec:'s
Staff Appraisal Report.
11.3     FDI has a computerized data  system, and most required information.
is readily available.   Only  proper  and  timely data analysis is lacking,
which could clarify where problems lie and help in devising and carrying
out remedial measures as soon as they are needed.
PART II: BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. ACCURACY OF PART III
1.1      The information contained in Part  III  of this report is adequate
and accurate.
2. COMMENTS AND ANALYSIS OF PART I
2.1      The  .talysis contained in Part  I of this report reflected roughly
FDI's situation during the six-year period, from FYs 1981182 to 1986/87.
Only a few important facts mentioned must be rectified, ard some insights,
which only field people can supply, must be added to help the reviewers of
this PCR better comprehend FDI's experience. Moreover, these facts have to
be placed in their own context.
2.2      Arrival of the  Preparatory  Mission  of  the  PCR (Qa, and August
1988). The period being considered in this report covers 1981 to 1987.
The Mission came in May and August 1988, at which time FDI was having the
most serious internal crisis of  its  history.   Its survival was at stake.
The Operations Manager was on leave for four months. The Administration
and Finance Manager was resigning.    The  General  Manager was about to be
replaced. The Mission came at this critical time to gather information for



- 15 -
the PCR. Had the Mission come in 1987, with the same information, the same
facts, and the same figures, its interpretation would have been quite
different, because the Mission could have met a management with a strong
working team spirit. In the absence of a strong FDI working team, the two
Bank missions in 1988 were not provided with the appropriate context to
discuss important issues with FDI's management, clarify certain facts, and
rectify some figures.
2.3      Had FDI, in 1987, given the Bank and the Government the impression
contained in the present PCR, they would not have mandated FDI as the
Executing Agency for one of their most ambitious projects ever realized in
Haiti, called the Industrial Restructuring program.
Specific Institutional Issues
2.4      "High turnover of senior staff and unsuccessful efforts to recruit
and train operations officers." This reference in Part I of the report is
very subjective. Three General Managers, two Operations Managers, and two
Administration and Finance Managers in six years is a relatively low
turnover by Haitian standards, and nothing dramatic if the underlying
reasons were known. Besides, during the same period of six years, the Bank
changed its Task Managers for this Credit three times. Was this turnover
high also? As far as FDI was concerned, two General Managers and one
Operations Manager lad left for promotions in the Government and the
private sector, and cwo Administration and Finance Managers were promoted
internally.  The  ssue here is not numbers.  It is a problem of context and
quality. Do we htave the right to ask someone not to move up just because
we want to keep our  staff  turnover  low?   The other statement concerning
FDI's failure in its efforts to recruit and train Operations Officers is
not quite accurate. Until 1988, FDI had never felt the need for staffing
its Operations Department with more than its 'one and only" Manager.
2.5      "Weak Supervision and Inadequate Evaluation of Projects."  Lackhig
experience and a competent staff,  the commercial banks failed to supervise
their loans as the project design required.  In order to fill this gap, FDI
designed its own supervision scheme and performed quite well, to everyone's
satisfaction. But, when the Mission came in 1988, FDI's worst year in its
history and with the Operations  Manager  on  leave for four months, it was
normal in this "behind schedule context" for the Mission to find FDI's
supervision of the Borrower's performance poor.
2.6      For the Mission,  FDI's  project  evaluation  was also inadequate,
because, of the 114 operations, only 10 projects had the financial rates of
return calculated. Had the Mission discussed this with FDI, it would have
been pleased to learn that, of the 114 operations financed by FDI, 103 did
not need to have this kind of calculation, because of their size or their
maturity, and only 11 operations required to do so. FDI computer printouts
show that financial rates of return were calculated for 12 projects, of
which 11 needed to be done (Annex 1).



- 16 -
Insights from the Field
2.7      One of the objectives  of  Credit  1131-HA was to strengthen FDI's
institutional capacity. It is thrjugh this perspective that FDI offers its
own independent review as follows:
a)  Three wears of languidness (1981-83).    For three long years, PDI
did not make any progress,  for  the  following reasonst  (i) What
the Credit's Staff Appraisel Report (SAR) expected would be
achieved with regard to supervision though BRH's Supervision
Department and ONAPI, was not, and (ii) what the SAR did not take
into consideration,  occurred  in  forces    the  banking sector's
excess liquidity, the commercial banks' indifference to the
rediscount  system,  and  the   almost  total  lack  of  qualified
personnel in commercial bankj for the preparation and evaluation
of industrial projects. It is the latter, rather than the former,
that accounts for the slowdown of FDI's operations. As a matter
of fact, even if BRH's Supervision Department and ONAPI had done
their job, FDI's progress woule still have stalled inevitably,
because, up until June 1983, FDI had no medium- nor long-term
projects in its  portfolio.    (FDI  financed  only one project of
US$18,000 in 1982 and one of US$2,000,000 in 1983, representing
just 90-day loans for the purchase of raw materials -- really
wasted foreign exchanget)
b)  Take-off and Momentum (1984-85).   With the recruiting by end-1983
of a new expatriate Consultant, to replace the first one -- who
had left before the end of his contract, after just 15 months of
service -- in an attempt to pull FDI out of its lethargic state, a
strategic approach was taken to fit the realities ("Since the
mountain won't  come  to Mohammed,   Mohammed will  go  to  the
mountain.'). This approach consisted of the followings (i) a
team composed of existing staff was fashioned with a well-defined
'who-does-what' plan; (ii) a Project Preparation Fund was created,
to assist entrepreneurs in preparing bankable projects; (iii) a
Project  Preparation  Guide   was   placed   at  the  disposal  of
enterprises and banks; (iv) an Industrial Extension Program was
planned, to provide the necessury technical assistance to future
customer-enterprises; and (v) a wide-spectrum Promotion Campaign
Plan was set up and launched, to sensitize public opinion and the
industrial and banking sectors cw the presence and usefulness of
FDI services.
All of this was carried out effectively, allowing FDI to become
dynamic: it came out of its infancy in 1984 with US$2,300,000
worth of long-term projects (highest level ever obtained in its
history), and in 1985 reached a momentum with all its resources
approved (cumulative approval at end-1985 of US$6,200,000 against
resources of US$5,700,000).



- 17 -
c)  Maturity and New Mandate (1986-87).    By 1986, FDI had earned its
place in the financial  sector.    Its  image  was good, its name,
respected, and its credibility,  established.    In short, FDI had
reached its maturity. Thanks to this institutional maturity, the
Government and the Bank jointly decided, at the beginning of 1987,
to entrust FDI with one of the most ambitious projects of economic
reform ever  attempted  in  Haiti:    the Industrial Restructuring
Program.
d)  Incomplete  Growth.    The  main   source  of  strength  of  every
development  finance  corporation   is   the   importance  of  its
resources. It is this dimension that first enables it to obtain a
certain credit mass in its portfolio, so as to become profitable
and. subsequently, sustain its growth. It is, unfortunately, this
type of strength that FDI has been lacking to this day. Despite
the prevision of the SAR that FDI would need new resources by the
fourth and fifth years and FDI's alarm signals that its resources
were drying up (by end-1985, they had*, the regrettable result
still remains:    the  Second  Industrial  Credit,  so much talked
about, discussed, and promised, is still a dead letter. Because
of that failure, FDI's growth came to a halt.
2.8      To  sum  up,   in   spite   of   great  difficulties,  unfavorable
circumstances, and with a small  team  of four people (one General Manager,
two Department Managers, and one Adviser), FDI succeeded in overcoming all
obstacles, growing out of its infancy, and becoming one of the most
credible public institutions in the  country.   In terms of objectives, FDI
particularly succeeded in convincing the powerful Haitian banking sector to
shake  its  indifference  towards   long-term   industrial  credit  and  to
understand the necessity of dealing with FDI, because of the many technical
and financial advantages FDI offers to it and to its customer-enterprises.
However, FDI's resources were never sufficient enough to match the level of
its ambition or to maintain its cruising speed -- to become a catalyst
institution of industrial development in the country.
3. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
3.1      During this project's iaplementation period, FDI worked with three
Task Managers.    All  three  showed  great  professionalism  and were very
businesslike. The second Task Manager was especially helpful, thanks to
his keen, practical sense of operations, during FDI's critical take-off
period.
4. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
4.1      Assessment of the  Borrower's  performance  and  FDI's comments on
this analysis, both in Part I of this report, contain a rather complete
idea of FDI'a performance.



- 18 -
5. EFFECTIVENESS BETWEEN WORLD BANK AND BORROWER
5.1       The relationship between the Bank  and the Borrower was excellent.
Its effectiveness was goo6, and various problems were solved (multiple
changes in the original  project  design).             But,  it could have been much
better and much more impressive had the Government and the Bank not
permitted a slowdown in FDI's momentum in 1935, by a lack of foreign
exchange resources, thus making it difficult for FDL to become a leading
development finance institution.
PART III: PROJECT COMPLETION PROFILE
Table 1: RELATED IDA CREDITS
Project Name,
Number and                                      Year
Amount                Purpose              Approved         Status
Economic            To assist Haiti In          1987        Credit closed, and *econd
Recovery Credit     lmplmeo  ting the now                   tranche (US820.0 million)
(Cr. 1766-HA)      trade liberalization                     cancelled since reloeas
YSJU40.0 million    policy and other                        conditions were not met.
stabilization measures
Technical           To provide assistance       1987        Closing date extended by 9
Asscitance          In the lmplementation                   months from March 51, 1989,
Credit              of tho above                            to December 81, 1989, to
(Cr. '.786-HA)                                              enable completion of
US92.0 millon                                              environmental studies
component.
Project being
Processed
Industrial          Follow-up on the          To be         Negotiatlons tentatively
Restructuring       First Industrial          submitted     scheduled for September
and Development     Credit Project            to the        1989.
Project             (Cr- 1181-HA)             Board In
US811.3 ml lion     (includes US21.3          FY90
million In Tech-
nical Assistance)



- 19 -
An  Industrial  Restructuring  and   Development  Project,  to  be
implemented by FDI, was appraised in May 1989, and is scheduled for
negotiations in September 1989.   Following the trade liberalization reform
of July 1986, it was felt that enterprises affected by the reduction in the
levels of protection should be assisted to adjust to the new environment.
To support this process, IDA included in its Techrical Assistance Credit
(Credit 1786-HA), approved in April 1987, an inidustrial restructuring
component aimed at advising private industrial enterprises on restructuring
options. FDI was given the mandate and resources to promote the process of
restructuring within the  private  manufacturing  sector.   To this effect,
with the assistance of consultants, it carried out effectively the design
of  industrial  restructuring   plans   for  eeveral  private  enterprises.
Restructuring proposals include financial restructuring and investment
needs, changes in products and/or activities, changes in production scale,
product quality improvements, technical rehabilitation, or upgrading of the
production process, changes in accounting systems and management structure,
and formulation of new marketing strategies.
The proposed credit of US$11.3 million (SDRs 9.2 million) would
provide US$4.8 million equivalent to private industrial enterprises to
implement the restructuring plans and US$5.2 million equivalent to finance
FDI regular DFC  lending.    The  technical  assistance component of US$1.3
million would: (i) strengthen FDI's institutional capability, particularly
in the area of project preparation, evaluation, and supervision, and
broaden its project preparation fund facility and extension services;
(ii) further strengthen the Central Bank's Supervision Department; and
(iii) improve  Customs  Administration.    The  Project  Advisory Committee
would be revived under its previous composition and would provide for at
least semiannual meetings, overseeing FDI's policies and operations.
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Actual/Revised
Original Date                 Date
First Mention in Files                   -                     Sept. 1978
Pre-appraisal Mission                    -                     Nov.  1979
Appraisal Mission                        -                     Aug.  1980
Negotiations                             -                     Feb.  1981
Board Presentation                       -                   Apr. 14, 1981
Credit Signing                           -                   June  8, 1981
Effectiveness Date                 Sept. 8, 1981             Dec.  8, 1981
Deadline for Subproject
Submission                        Jan. 31, 1985             Jan. 31, 1985
Closing Date                       June 30, 1985             Mar. 31, 1987
Date of Last Disbursement                -                   Feb. 17, 1987
Borrower:                          Republic of Haiti
Executing Agencys                  Fonds de Developpement Industriel (FDI)



- 20 -
Table 3: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION
(In Thousands of SDRs)
Original      Disbursed      Cancelled
Credit Amount            5,700          5,494            206
Cumulative Disbursements
FY  1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
(i)  Appraisal forecast    1,000  2,932  4,560  5,700  5,700  5,700
(ii)  Actual                   166    591  2,225  4,745  5,176  5,494
(iii)  (ii) as I of (iM          17      20     49     83      91     96
Fluctuations of the SDR in Relation to the U.S. Dollar
US Dollar/SDR Rate
At the time of SAR preparation                     1.16
At Credit Agreement stage                          1.23
1982                                  1.103 - 1.104
1983                                  1.05  - 1.07
1984                                  0.98  - 1.02
1985                                  1.10  - 1.01
1986                                  1.22  - 1.17
1987                                  1.42  - 1.29
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
FDI Operations, 1982 to 1987
(In US$ Thousands)
FY 1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    Total
Amount of Actual
Approvals                18   1,968   2,322   1,879       781   1,026   7,994
Appraisal Estimates   2,000   2,200   2,800   3,800   4,200              15,000
Subprojects Approved       1       69      25      11        3        5     114
Disbursements             17   1,306   2.361   1,546   1,095        694   7,019
Appraisal Estimates   1,600   2,090   2,630   3,230   3.910           -  13,460
Portfolio                 17      966   2,295   2,481   2,916   3,167   3,167
Appraisal Estimates   1,440   2,920   4,790   7,220   9,980           -   9,980



- 21 -
1.       Performance fell below  appraisal  targets  for  a number of reasons.
First, the SAR (p. 15, para. 3.15) indicated that, by the fourth project year,
FDI was expected to secure additional resources under conditions similar to
those of the IDA Credit. This did not materialize.
2.       Second, the amount  of  resources  which  the appraisal report stated
would be made available to FDI did not fully materialize, in spite of the GOH
contribution, as planned, of US$1.0 million at FDI's inception. The shortfall
was due to fluctuations of the SDR against the U.S. dollar during the years
when most disbursements were made.    The  Credit was denominated in SDRs (5.7
million), which at the time of negotiations was equivalent to US$7.0 million.
Of this amount, SDRs 4.8 million were for rediscounting operations, and about
SDRs 0.9  million,  for  technical  assistance.    The  SDRs  4.8 million were
expected to generate about US$6.0 million, but the aforementioned fluctuations
reduced the U.S. dollar amount actually disbursed by IDA for FDI rediscounting
operations to US$4,766,000, or 202 lower.



Table 5: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Month/   No. of  No. of    Specialization      Staff    Date of   Performance  Type of
Missions            Year    Weeks   Persons    Represented  /a  Weeks    Reports        RatinR     Problems lb
Preappraisal      FY 79/80      -       -                         58.2
Appraisal         8/80          -       2          SOO,SO           33.8   24/03/81
Supervision    I  9/81       1          3         DC + 2 SO         3      07/10/81       2/2      M,P.O,T
II   3/82      1.4       2           DC + 00          2.8   05/03/82        2/3      M,P,O
III  11/82      1.2       3          SOO,OO,EC         3.6   29/11/82        3/3      T,P.O
IV   3/83      0.8       1             00             0.8   06/04/83        212      M,T,F
V   8/83      1         2           SOO,SO           2     29/08/83        2/2      M.T
VI   4/84      1         2                            2     12/04/84        21       F,O
VII  10/84      1         2            OO,EC           2     05/12184        2/1      F
VIII   3185      2         2           SOO,EC           4     22/03/85        212      F,M
IX  11/85      2         1             00             2     18/03186        212
la DC  - Division Chief
SOO - Senior Operations Officer
00 - Operations Officer
EC = Economist
lb  M  - Managerial
P - Political
T - Technical
0 - Others



- 23 -
Table 6: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Deadllno for
Covenant         SubJect             Compliance                    Status
A. Credit Asreement
J.04        Advisory              Sep. 80, 1981      Compilled with.
Comittee
3. Protoct Agrewment
2.02         Submission of         No date           The project had a very slow
2.02(s)      Pr@je                                    start-up, and no Fl had submitted
(The first 4                            project. during the first two
projects for                            yers. Lending was moetly for
each one of                             working capital, under the free
the FIo had                              limit set by IDA, and procedures
to be submitted                         were very simple.  Most cases
to IDA for                              were the object of tlexe o end
approval.)                              approval was quasi-automatic.
Starting In 1904, ill projocto
submitted by FIo were transmitted
to IDA and examined before final
approval.
2.04         Submisiolon of        At regular        Complied with.
Report.               Intervals
2.05         Modificatlon                            All modifications were discussed
of FDI'o                                with IDA, and approval of such
Policee                                 were always formal.
2.06          Managment                               The quality of the different
and Staffing                            General Managers was mixed.
2.09          Employmnt of                            Always In compliance with IDA's
Consultant.                             Guidelines
8.02         Annual Audit.         At regular         Complied with.
Intervals
8.08         Avoidance of             -               No exchange risk was Involved.
Exchange Risk
8.04          Maintenance of          -               Complied with.
Approprlate
Interest Rates
8.05          Exchange of             -               Compiled with.
Views
4.01         Reports from             -               Compiled wIth.
FDI



- 24 -
Table 7: STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY79  FY60  FY81  FY82  FY68  FY64  FY6C  FY66  FY67  FY66  TOTAL
Preepprelel      17.6  42.0   8.4       -                                           06.2
Apprai"l            -     -  88.6       -     -      -      -     -      -      -   a8.8
Negotiations        -     -   9.0       -     -      -      -     -      -      -    9.0
Supervision         -     -   1.2  14.5  16.6  20.8  26.5   7.4   2.4   4.6   97.5
Other               -   4.4   2.8   0.1   0.1        -      -    _       -   0.7    7.6
Total          17.6   W.44  54.7  14.6  16.7  20.8  26.6   7.4   2.4   s.8  216.1



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
ANALYSIS OF FDI REDISCOUNTING OPERATIONS, 1982 TO 1987
(in US$O000)
Average
Total        FDI          IDA                      Cost
No. of      Project       Redis-    Disburse-  No. of Jobs   per Job
Sector              Operations      Costs       counting     ments      Created        (US*)
Food                                26          2,493        1,424       1,028          248        10,052
Agro-Industries                      8          2,302        1,331         625          207        11,021
Cottage Industries                   9            415          310          35          193         2,150
Assembly                             3            216          209          179         202         1,069
Plastics and Chemicals              15          4,185        1,764         859          104        40,240
Civil Works                          6          1,929          789         563           73        26,425
Textiles and Leather                13            471          293         252          155         3,039
Metal                               10            544          520         447           14        38,857
Fishing                              3          1,354          462           10         156         8,680
Tourism and Services                11            593          491         423           30        19,767
Miscellaneous                       10          1,230          401         345          208         5,913
Total                              114         15,732        7,994       4,766        1,590         9,894I
Average per Operation                             138           70          42           1A         9,894
2 of Financing                                                 50.82       30.32



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CRUDIT PROJECT
(CURDIT 1131-HA)
FDI - CHARACTERISTICS OF LOANS REDISCOUNTED UNDER
CREDIT 1131-HA
(in Us$'o -o)
Number    _     Amount      z
A.  By Size of Approval
Up to 50                   70      61.4   1,067    13.3
51 to 100                  26     22.8   1,841    23.1
101 to 250                  9      7.9   1,522    19.0
251 to 500                  9       7.9   3,564    44.6
114    100.0   7,994   100.0
---mi  __u      u--_ *-_... 
B.  By Size of Enterprise (Employee
0                          53     46.5   3,316    41.5
Up to 10                   10       8.7     238      3.0
11 to 20                    1      0.9       46     0.5
21 to 50                   14     12.3   1,420    17.8
51 to 100                  15      13.2     975    12.2
Above 101                  21      18.4   1,999    25.0
114    100.0   7,994   100.0
C. By Nature of Enterprise
New Enterprises            35      30.7   2,648    33.1
Existing Enterprises       79      69.3   5,346    66.9
114    100.0   7,994   100.0
_ii    u_    *m    inim



-27-                                ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
Number     2    Amount       X
D. By End Use
Working Capital             39     34.2   1,929    24.1
Fixed Assets               75      65.8   6,065    75.9
114    100.0   7,994   100.0
E.  By Maturity
Up to 2 years              49      43.0   2,857    35.7
2 to 3 years               11       9.6   1,302    16.3
3 to 4 years               48      42.1   2,403    30.1
Over 4 years                6       5.3   1,432    17.9
114    100.0   7,994   100.0
am  inuuuin .            i....
F.  By Type of Sector
Food                       26      22.8   1,424    17.8
Agro-Industries              8      7.0   1,331    16.6
Cottage Industries          9       7.9      310     3.9
Assembly                     3      2.6      209     2.6
Plastics and Chemicals    15       13.2   1,764    22.1
Civil Works                 6       5.3     789      9.9
Textiles and Leather       13      11.4     293      3.7
Meta  iFurniture           10       8.8     520      6.5
Fishin-                     3       2.6     462      5.8
Tourisu and Services       11       9.6     491      6.1
Miscellaneous              10       8.8     401      5.0
114    100.0   7,994   100.0
muw_mi  magma   0=       i



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Number     Z    Amount      X
G. By Purpose
Creation                  35      30.7   2,648    33.1
Expansion                 34      29.8   2,507    31.4
Modernization              6       5.3      910    11.4
Working Capital           39      34.2   1,929    24.1
114.    100.0   7,994   100.0
in          ini   mmmmin s



PROJECT COILETION REICRT
HAM
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(tCREDIT 11S1-A
DFI - DETAILED LIST OF APRY  PR-CTS BY PIOCM  DhIRU                                                                IES
PnM  tium m. n"I
WUfOLii PM 113?. P353g3
mnsutstt                              lW nrmu  tnn                                                               cmst as miu. nuc. ni   rg.tu wantis an aico mm ul5s otis mm    tRi
Sn n  an? Ann NMI$ "M.
"is  haecin  a hlqnt                Urwticll   tDels Dims                           setb apfwt          flU                1.n     nsn1.n1    3:1.11               I.01      1       J      ISO      ISO!        I    nt
I-N        It 1  ack  kta1          lstil                  tztls t                  br  b#OeXtg fit                       $.411    911.1         f Sf."            I."       I        I      n    s           1S        .|
n 5ett Is
| 1 .     11  11M    4113.12      .11             I        I@    18       IH I2            I  .11
tElt  1                 tri.~~~~~                       ~~~~an  tWell"Itndst   bpcslz                     WDI.11 Ilslol   dil                          11 1I    ISt  is   is  .u
3636  S lst     e ki3 Ptices ut bowe   Iu                       kt#la il          bit t Cap/kutr  il 44                 6.63    413 16.            S.fl          3.6                I     31   11 t            I    0.0
I|t 01   iiti mtsl                  Articles lFU%% t        IW. btalliqu            Valk rqwitrft fl                      I.11    41611.11    41111.11             1.11      I       I       M|      H11         I    I.*
1-6U    hit5 l othtmitl             tttts                  ttilt tt Col htkt  aSeIutl 14f                                  1.1    SSS11S.33        113.      611   1.3           I       1 11        111         1    3.0
"S to  taol
4.6?1.11   5111631.62   6122631               6.6 1             1      Il3     111        Is    6."
3466llllti 3653cs                   fWKiro   G  S Oave S    Oholqw 1 tt  lUtipet  Supsaim         t  (3di3.33   3136.33   311316.11                                3.3       I       1       1   3  71          11  .3
1-11  51i13ttmaul tetwins           feldm t kstuiti a  ls   ululs   i .et fintlwe  bit Cap/SUe          l lii             6.     61 1 3  . 6   11131.16            6.3       6        1          It 3I    1 .10
t-t01  iltinttulPO   ettwits        lamste-   l tle,       tldfi  *tllesatilt  ht   ttoipkttU                         M l111   1411.11 tl           314            1.i t  11  t          3    1 0      s      11 t      11
*-l 6   ulttiU   let"l               lt- l#iU malay       u6 6#Uli4qo                  rip/la         I11i3.3                      4193.11    43111.               11.3      I        6     3          I         6   n.n
$-M   t. fttlqlF Fe#                lIn. cost. llet s          tnctII              Distillation                      *|141 "    l S 111155     tll. 3$            L" 21             17       I        1         3    $.*
t-iI,  billie  Ciin:cIaI                        itseot  a  fUe t ile ti:            for  CooSmkout    41                   6.66    11111.13      61 .11.16 I.n6              I            I 13        of         I    6.0
1-011  fAUIOI II         .            ttdtlti       k      ^fZitat btl  tvl es ltt t   Cit at si l                   1114 1.@1   414111. 3l11sl1 tS              1.1         4 l          I           It        it *    .I
Hll  4uu h   tti C t .|i             BLUlt  lti ktil   Cqlt[': sctie                tttstan                         MM1tM  11 ttiS  S liil   11 0.0                                11 it             Jl        It IsIs Jt
1-0111  t 111Ct uUt                 ikt$llll  tststin litlael   bts itit: lle "     t tits                           S1111.1111   l61631.   1363114          1113 .3     1         I is    11        1        151  6S.
3-NIl   luln   twssa    ilea        foisiti pala  Cl-tic:   slie                    toi len                           6nto.6       6336.1       183631.3       6it.              6    3       3        I         I    6.0
63    l3otnstora  itwlems           P11dct1lw 11           Goiqacs mllt            pelehi   C /        3.1                         16666.66    66366.66            6.36      6      It        I       3          I    I.0
3-        uIti almot                Sialeige I Glolt  Pu tbIls A   out el            :pauill ulo                      131463.61    63116.66                        6.66      S      13        1       1       [       3.0
Sfl  I.t. liilm                     lab, iot. Itt     lal t here i lstU l           Iipdor     l1a 11111                       111    111.13     11.1 tl           t11.6     I       to     IIS      11       11      6.
6631    lofla                       lP:odoctloe i t  tth   ApeAlioealn    tt lt:work n   I/ls6.63    133i91 3.6                                1116S .11            36      6      Is      61       36          6    6.0
I-1       1                        PIWKtali it  $ lus4ilue  tt    l.l etalst al t  Cmli                             $13166.36   466631.   1    31.01.6 ..e                114.66M 46         6       t34       14  9.1
3-163   Neuki  h.a,q                Peatloa I. im    3arei  Ipu-Illmctahmt          Coeaitlls                        413666.6?   1163111.31 31 311.3           611.31    if         If      M         33        31   31K
t 61  hipe tt slo s                 lotiCst t  .i i   l     a. t .i  cI  ttls      tI olon l. i6 6.1                               31631.6?   141181.          14.6         6       63        6       it        41     .011
- S.e".ell6    11161.93  ISS6116.36    IS1131.31    I6         sn3    lots    l1          n19  no."
ltowll
836 1335 PIsit:iat  4. ais  Ca Ipe it laPick                                       thide       s l326366.63   16336.36                              6.63           1.63    13       66 1      I      1M1       M     6.16
A-113  lbt" i K a   t 513C          St. C alt              410a 1o 4stlt,  tomatIa                                    1366.63  S111313.3       11 366.66           .4      1       16        1 31          l M3  4   6.0
of lahIotal #0
11131133 1363 11     11      111.        11 11         11      1        31  I   63J        4 2o6 .0 M    P.
M-llJ  CFlste                       I        e Pat   plastic:   titpt l t1t                           111sles       1331363.61         t MI  6163.33  4ll         6. 111    I                I       IS II s  Is
1-Ill I IS      Suil               Pdst     ft P11 4st.lt ue A       tal           h Ispuo iw     t                 316636.3 1 63i S333             6.33 l.11               I        I      31       to       1      I.0
t 611  mitbts Cis                   hitks ntttlliti   lid.  Stalli                  v     Cttkurt 111              t3       .  11     4.             6.3 1. 1                6 It            11      3o1       3        . 14.0
631|  Celor pa c*     tl                  c  pol  I        Cthmslat                 Teti CAP/seult oil                              61166.33    13361.6            .11       I       I        I        I         1      . H                               W
9 1-1  mb"                           altesl t              Also-l*le3*4lzs         So ilas                           6136    161.13     1113.31                   6.63 l           I I3    156    I13          6    6.66
e1  ll lOw                           altuio                Algo-All  ta ll.          Work Cap/ku: 1                        6.33     11.3.6        111. 6.6 6.6               I        I     33I    In            I    6."



num rnocm a on mo
Mw[nwIN  to I. rinmomi
OM   u mtstl Inti WIT11111                                                       min                       cont p  nio. mat. ni            nus.isa  ung ni ami              =a mit   s  muis usI oI
min   ito  -m mliii mom.
54601   LIlts of SaPi              legcwlwle  sItula    twice,                   i vapl oeusgm [at                   0.11    41151.3      4231.10A          1.111    I       1      3       n          I    0.
16414  Depets ImAfacter,          tailsaste it ealci CUsiape    Iest lnve  cutatal                              MON64.1      1611S.211   10111.11          5.11     I       24       I      to        I  1   .111
51)01   Oulallce                  islati3a   fI         Atlo*1iHsestilto        Oeak Capmltca N 14                   0. 61 1116.1         51165,05 1N . 01                   2     105     10          S    5.06
S-NI  11ublsCS                    hhlaa4jerle           Oge-ls.Oleealret         Selk CApjkuur 143                   6."1    110.0       11125.16          0.66     I        I     to5     III         I    6.06
15-500  Oatrioce                  loutitachl            5wAltoImestdlg          bteatles                      6liOlliN       tN04.8111   110061.111    32104.00    12       o        I6Is             Is41  .601
awl   stile uqiocat               Fablalati. to stateoSlurs                     beatle                         555661,01   2I114J.6   161614.116           I.11    at       to       6      10       65    5.06
144   bmi oulnen  listilleill  We-twvstlit          cleatin                          MILK56t      121412.3    $11121.11    1214.0114    1 50I    I1   a1                 Il    11.111
0-632  t i.~t   I.IttGsu            lievaeitCalit    Spe-foolmntale             beatles                         33104.01    2102514    2141.16             0.06     I       t  I0    0                if 11 .010
11-Il   iblsl tallser             Siwi Geciet            esteco                to esi                            0610.64     1491.32     1214.1.1         61.11    it      to       I       I         I    61.601
S1-111 t  ici    le  elaseas      OIsIIlIuI  c          Opt e   Ieilts    a     beau                             315616.11    1034.14     IS11.3           01.61   It       Of       I       I         I    6.06
56010  kiloaahIq            .     kteal. I. asutOp-alaselr                       apmul                           22046.6      161.110     191)0.1          .0.66     2 20            4       I         I    0."
P-O iCst ltl    w                 itzaliteutlu         ao.-Ioastlusruoutle CMi~106.601   91I16.3                                         1156.16          6.00    41       40                I 26        0 01
5-Il  W C iack ss hantepees ll                          lpte14lleenta           Cetipise                          1160         10         0 111.3          0.60    Il       of       I       I         a     .0.1
1-lit 11erkindSetUlt              costie   sititet calsete Sie:,iqale                                           0011106       4113.241     1145.61         6.11    It       40       I       I         I    011.
0030  "in1                        OatlusuI              la anut                 Cmiluio                           1)61.0  11.      661113  l131.11         0.60     2       22       1       14       H    6.60
5-02  11lsttOIe  o tlIw            SlsoiIede  ido         te-IsIestat0e         Sacreltla                           2 I  1160.0 01.41     11141.11         6.06    It       It       I       I         I   011.0
01-060  3.3:   eps                CdtnitM   0t1wlIle    Apt-Alliet~:ire         CiuitIsi                         12106.11    4136.11      46915.2         61.60    Ii       66           1             2    0.60
5-1   Sten i  two,l                CAmter               billie  t tel,          hasIe                            M124.601    3106.00      2114.6           6.001 i   It  40          I       I        0      ."
SORAiles        ttsta          aelttieat             Id  tlsase  1          cbeatle                           406110.6    1631.11      1654.6          0.66      1      31      I*      41        2      .60
5-64    Iee %le flsppe         hl. I,  Ma              ipeOlens              beatles                          2566.611    4121.0       301.5           6.66    Ii        3       I        I        I    51.04
001    ers  c k ln  i  Ole. t-&-pet:l              tpA.AllsesitClr         Coaliss                           34661.66    310114       3161.13         0.64    22       to       I                 6    9.11
5- m1Irascee Stwksosae                               Menata                 tipassi                          61661.106    3303.45      212.5           6.60    22       it           1             1    11.60
000   tsu teda (Mrlstla        rerre.diamle          6*4.lstataltoe          Creatlsa                         466.661    155.2        212051.1        61.601   It       Is       0        2        2    0.110
I-IN   0.1.  lase-ecls            lavas,,               Setnmin                 tepesle                          110.6111     61419.5     3131.41          6.11    it        6       I      it        It    1.601
0660  Jtt laIs   0.614..          fteut-ag              tetilcc ut     g        Ciatmiea                         3106.66      ful 111.16 6IS                .60    .        It 6            it        I     4130.6
06034  aspelita                   60.13ccinu            luiasl                  lispasslm                        114601.160    0111.11    16110.66         I. 0.6   4       to       1       I3        I    6.06
1-6011   1 . Zsepate-LeaPec        Otlsc s              OM.liaat 1   t          ispaule,                         1016.00      3!95.15     2131.15          6.60    It       I6       I      II        60   6.60
1-061  Let ty  la  odkit 06061      tlasatt4            itlsti et Clt           trestless                        10166.       66.11  114.l  110,11         6.11    It       46       I       I         I1   0.66
5-064  Js-ntliIpe  la               aleasat             slitlsa l               lopasele                          5646.66     2316.61     2il4."4          0..    I2        to      it       It        I    6.00
SI-N1  USIO                       listilecthit ,   tetell15t it  I            irpestiem                       lIS1.I       11IlO       4116.131         6.60    13       to4    I5    6  66I.2          0 3.64
6-60   LoMs o)  lere              Bbelles               lives                   Lapassules                       MW0.0        3111.16    12133.16          0.64     0       16      30      It         2    6.06                              o 
S-U)  tlegerSol                   liwostIel             Ige.dst ale ecot        Itacalet                         3S134616     106.A       W).11.6          0.06     I       46       I       11             1.11 0.0                          *. 
3.1  Ic of belles  VUlS           Ielms,,               tEextlea     c          blcmitsute                       1616.6       2111.16     2266.66          6.66     I       32       I      it         2    6.064                            411
6-110  11asa rl U1    tt          Costonet              textile et Cila         tzta*131e                        35HO5  10 13.3)i          511.0           6.0      2 i t       11           1         I    0.60                             *
5-60                           told Se   It Fale    Sees                     betatle                          1160.60     1116.16      31461.0         6.66      I      I1       0        3        3    6.111                             0   ~I
6-05  i~le  lesaklea           kecistale            otuers                   Lapasleso                        6366.66     4126.61      4615.36         6.061   32       II       0        I        I     si0
0-064  Dtat  ileeat,3n,A i I2     I o. It i t"l 1lls. Alye 0lIoltne2r          Clesalem                         26360.661    1111.16       S 1 155.60.6           32       O        0      is        is    I 41
3-NI1  tatlsserlo Is oaa          tatinlosrl            p.-&lfusaloo           CroatIas                         1240.6       111.11      5161.40          4.46    it       46       I       1         5    10.10
11-40  tecltle lulIt. fees        helargle              Id. ft  la leck         Citaesti                         1166.00      110.15.  0   111211          0.66    I2       46       0       J         J    6.06
11-03   tittl  Jacques tkn,       biasi.  hhlIcit.   Sulcem                     beatles                          S1134.66     1135.316    1211.41          6.06    1t       It       I        I        3    1.414



n61m n60 tt uf n
hmunmt vita in. uiatuet
nme 6 m*13s1                       KtiflU     .        06Wt                    U6*2                          Mt 16"W. 6Uc. "I           1l.U11 123113l  Cl6an    i?nMtt62          awI   s ll  l6t1 t    "I
illt   iLU l   NM   6316111,11H n66K1.
6166  6.1. rqhrl                0aI,III               h-AI r mIae             hnmlu                          31610.6  01 3n.33         3Il3.12         6.In    la      Is       I       I         I    L.6
6-let    tnint  nv 1tueits Cllqet   alisia at flrti                           ln NUIu                         201l." 6      131.12      11)n .0 n.66    It             4n        e       *        *    6.
1011    I tp    h ll               liatOuu             Ittiusit                CittOItII                      II6.66        136.51      16il.11         6.6     11      6t       1       1        1    I.6
i-Ill 1tests 6l,61t1              IsPletiIr            Setvlcn                 Cullst                          160.66    0Iff.50S1111.61                0.63     I      Is       6      33        1     6.6
1-111   ttrg  Rickel              muit tsra *t tB ts                            aeraisn                       IlIIIS       61630.0      11      I0.     6.66    It      Is       I       I              0.66
I 000  tct per Owt s  r.nt    :,i.-  t                 fz::ulat                r-.
6-66   V.C t6:d. mc             tf`gj-,?vatc           ICS;SI cO Celi        t Ctdaumn                        3106.41      1lO. 3 6   111.1)            6.66   13       0        S      U        1     6.
**to htottl It
"Ssm. 1,16.t5 *'."   il                                           Il               Ill I.n
$40 tSI  tlit  4t41ftl(I         IAl.cilt              l L  t kt Ulttt         bd  btik oo   t tdl           $1      1   11111.11   313011.0            1.6      1      1i m          li         3    6.66
6-6111 Csptetc                    taleautlqt           stuaces                 h at o Caplhat 10                  6.66    11003.66    141111.66         6.16     I       I       1I     Is        I    6.1
3301 Ietxns?a-lb                  lapalurtle           h    nitcs              hit tAlbl [UatI                    I.66    1121.        301     3         .6l.I0  I       3 I   in      3n         I    I.16
6-611  hrabl                     Fbllet NhS           Clostnecthl             bta Caknglit fit                   6.66    11811.11,   3$13.11           *.n6     6       3     its lt             I   0.66
I16N  lutnttln  ll      iaua     Accseu.Ors lletct.  Clatpe et 3d 14,ti,l      S     Cahd muaa fit                0.66    4560.6    31106.61            6.66     I       I      11      11        I    I..16
0  all    situ                   I*lv.eru              S;aactivw capaslm                                     5511116.6   113141.6   IS3S110.0           6.63     I      Is      62      to        I    6.66
t-n6   D8.811 61 k ph teb e      kbtiat wbhla e et plastipe  htS a                             li                 6.06   11191S.N    916)1.13           6.01     I       1      li      I     t   6    I.16
l-621  Itlatiats lbltts  ltm tCll.se  tlt PlusSOqutt in   t/leiukn   IUl                                          6.61    11113.U    3S1110.ll          I.St    I        I      St      St        6   6.H6
61-11  hitp"    t                td.h l     t tSut tCstasctlmtN                hial           [dle               6.t0      32I.6       21151.11        6.n      I       I       1      S1        1    1.6.i-
I-Il6  SltICSI                    FaUt Clt tlesta    4q1-Iustile               Cuatisll                      s 3.n        11130.66 3N0110.63            e.66     I      3        I      of        11 6  .66
3-Itt Sulu                        iet it t stt         A  -lali taltt,e        hilt t l        [nit 111           6.60    16111.1    tll.lt             t.6      6       I    161      ItS        I    6.6N
6-616  Silua                       bit I lt eats       tWt-0ima,lailitt        hit talIkut fit                    6.Ul    23110.6      16634.010        6.63     6       I      Si      SS        I    L.e
-611  ItlsetltS b6itt6l5         tins" Sptli1sa   hatil iet Coll               al  tClktn  616                    6.3      0 .         1114.13          1.31     I       I     I3l    In          6    6.66
6661  IS lltle asit          *                    tti4 n*a-.
3-10   loas                        FsI rFlam tlqmnliulpe at Ilast itO Caniln                                 n1113.n6   W1111A.6       n13110.63        3.66    ul      4        I      I 1      is n  3.10
t-ltl01 W   u atnl tbn            ketk ts   h rtls       t lt 6iut uln                                        166."       1060.6    66.03           311.132     1I s    36 1 ie3t               1t   t.N
3-266  Itls bletplsa              IWto Ina             lid.  tialilpa          awau                          I0103.66    016".6l   3l36.6"           1166.6     It      to      11       1.    It   6.66
3-66   ht,J Cuktto               kStrtrs               tatO    et cd i tAuttil                               3lin1 .."    011111.11    WWII         116111S                 11       11                .S II    I.1
"@ Istetil *6
8-616 01 hilt IlCo.                           aa.tlus  C        fat attlatlgee   bit Caplkunit fit             611111.01    Ols.0 161 .11       flS .  1061n.0   I              Is l.             I 1 .11
n W
6.13   hat I C.                    itss*ts     l      l" t tLptl.-A........ ......utlitilu  el* Ca...ku.a Iii  4666.66    09111.4      61136        11i.33       I      10      I       16    .        6.36
-0  I     . asus bites           CaSt Sa Il.stIes  Cbisie    t Ilastig          t hit ttplkt   161                6.6    t11lS.66    111tS.11           6.11     I       I      Ui      It        0    6.161                         9
I6631  blt t Cttaluii S.I.       hit.t tailbpets   led. blalltp             hbtl tCa al  1t.l                            UISI0.66    3 511.1S.I 33331.33  6.0   I       I  1        t1  if       I    6.N 
6-111 luitlU  Cat  ItI 1.8.       lutes Ibte3IIls   lei. btluillge             titl Ciap tua 1ll                 I3.       61t11.11   S1116.11          1.16 6           I       1 6     t        I    0.6                           O
613 ll 1i. atilulallpr           PIr. dt Cspuks    hi. staillgu                hta  Catibl tq:                    l.N1    SSS.12.l1   01111.11                                                    t 33  I  I  Its  its  I    6.66
a I6 tsnt. DI ati                 hpassi.  stIttal    sIvlns                   hil Csp/trkai 0i                   6.06    360110.00    1i1.0o           *61    6         3       2       I        6    6.66



04
111III S     L it51t   till   5161    Otf    WHS1  111         9I SLrtis;it i (9ff1   SS'IIILISI
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  ai 
811    il tt   9I i l S I t     *1    W85                 888         #$,MsOiL   sillsiIB                      *i dlIfhZV315t                                                            Is il-I
III    I        lit    Il  t           I    Ol WSls*Iis 18m ;        n-ai       IaII  lima~iiI  P10S                           1Pilnpl-si&W          oil 15 '"la           I]nMu'2g  Sill Ill-I
S16itS          It      I       to     I    SIIWosL       Ill$        iStllsit   SiOllosil                      5113)a51j 3061S         1611IIIII3   1214601 43 UI1' JiU IfIlfdfII.
211815 810181  tilE   581kV   LI1I1I1 N11   M    vd oiiiiu
in  uuioaswoui ssuu smm  zta  u siwawsiaa*u          la inU Iva  mai  suaou                                           133noiisn
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l211   LI  1 UIl
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ulE   ilSili



POECT COWLErTIOS Mm"
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
_    (CREDIT 1131-HA)
DFI - DETAILED LIST OF APRE  P                                   CTS 3Y S
Mm  lum tu u mI
M   i?ltISit                                                                                                cmII l   stnn  1t1l1  CU n noJ. n c. ntl   !t.IS ltuS nil Qma   n MUI Anl n nLOI  uni    III
111    uuit  Muu  WLtI lingt.
|X ItellltstatS                                                                                                                                                                       ?t                        0
1t13   1  leglit tes  t tit-C.,,,  iiewa  It Cte bit    lpso-lleotalzo              tractits                          11361.11    21142S.11    31631.65            6."      12       Is       '       51              I. 11
*-lI  "t     "'iis   to tatslects    less. IG.sl           1poI ulato l i,   giqasm                                  Mon5.4."      10141.11    11113.1             6.0 1             1 It     I       UI        to   11.t0
0619  Bleta. ?alI i   to.           hod.  te l             Apl 1*-ilhItsato:e        Iqi eltes                        13111.11      1131.16      t113.14           1.66     12       41       6        4         6    6.0
1m1  Inasutle Nt'l*t dlulti  Itt4. It hiosn                 lpte-llaeteir         hbtl Capkut 111                         1.11    21111.11    11151.11            1.11      I           I J I       11          I    1.11
1-11  tCilozts loots                Ltlests                $Ie-6llot,tntH           Ispoasi.                            1111.11  1611.12          22f1.31          1.11    12        11       0        I         I    6.lt
-519  Catelallo  Fveto              *Iavoj  4d  Poelets     A-IAloltat-I1o       1  lsaplsule                         1681.61       4916.66    4e1is.1e            e.g.      I      i1        5        I         2    6.18
&-6A   hietl Ito.                   plot. it nitts          pln-Allwatatle          Caeslt                           3166.66   111121.35   141161.16           11153.       11       as 2         6 1           66    6.66
1-111  htot I Co.                   pelies                  lrs -1iie.ta,tz         hatt Cp/pletut flt                166.46   4IISISA.I    11S1S.14           I1211.31       1      1 6     61       U1         6    1.01
1-11I  1.J5  oclpsn                 cale toIIlf             lg latilute             betitl                            13111.11      I131.I1       4615.21          I.06    12        It       I        2         2    6.61
Bllo  IljIflu aimplin              tPad. de NOW               llb -Ailetat,lte     Ctiles                             25| .11      1241.41      3616.13           6.11    12        I6       I        2         2    I.01
S-Ill  Pouts ea ktios It lIl.  htissuei                    Agsn-lllastaOilt         treatesh                            341.66      ISSI.13      I311.11           1.11    1t       46        I        I         I    O."
1-0  FIlt sm                       pr$dsctl*o I  tbo    lliloattOro               forl t C/okutt 1f1                     1.11    131JJ.I6    11111.15            6.16      I        3      I        11         I    1.66
I-llt  Icekbea  Patio sla           PIttocties It glazo  lpSall"sesta3              Cattlels                         04516.11   15131S."    11U113.6I          I1111.31      1      Ui        1       31        31   3s."
s-it1  A. ktual l1U-111             FIrd. Jdllumlo t        pob l I best.ic         Croti11 116.16                                   321.11      36.1              6.6    1         4 t                1         I    1.11
I-Im)  Ulttm                        LoItiteO               LoliI           t        uIeHlutin                         U151.61    5161NS.1J       I536.3I           1.11      I       It     I11      121         6    0.66
8-l3t  blu otisle als                                       lae-*Ietate             nltg  attku[g, [4d                     n.66    6443S.34    $1141.46            6.61      6           1J   l      11 6        I    6.68
I-us  P6lt0                         Ilstagi  it hslets   lgta-Allsomtolro           Isposlo.                         161516.16   16336..14   123162.55             6.66     i    1       IS   35 1  36           1    6."
I-ot  pairs illlteatels sill   brod. dotPtes  Illb. Aplloulusetalr                 ctrtit*i                         31366.61      111. 16.1     153.26           8.66     It       It       I        I        is    6.66
-1     lti88 P ssolsb  i t tat laIssbls                    13a0-ilhlentotil         tCtratis                           33666.66     4131.11       51161. 11  16.6 1                  41        1       5         '    8.6t
0-6    .1. Ioeieol              Psuoliflut            &ArsAIlotatAffe            Ispanise                          11606.66      6331.32      3643.11          6.66     It       of        6       I         I    8.66
5-n64  sIoblist                      so,lagle rAp-llto ustatolit                    hit #ophUtt f      10t                 6.66    11111.06    61131.46            6.411     5              165      165         I    6.6
I 636 llIhiti                      PNots    ost            1lps-lllbtetal:e          Stl Coap/ekuga 041                    6.61    36316.66    S64ll." 2.68                  I        I     I55      its         I    6.6
I111   StlI                         Plan It  totus                                  fort  co/hkuln   Hl 0.11    21S11.11                          1163.66          1.161     I        3      SS       S          I    6.11
1-11  lt4 lulet dett teitt                                 414g Ili8l0td            Urk Ct/kagi lit                        1.11    11111.ll    112ll.11            t.ll      I        I     IIS      IIS         I    I.tl
3-01   Slaotspt                     Ihliasslole            ht-lltleatao             tuoltin                          411111.11   l3lil.6         114 1. 11 66  314.6 I       2       46       I       IS        4S    t.66
l-ltl  aid                          DEb . it tlrlin         i-AlilseatIe            ldealutl                         tl51.66   2HS116               6.66          1.1    12         tl     161      iii         6   Sl.66
to slital i
I431336.11   1411 211.2t 1611166.51    23111.51   26           1611284    ItS2            J4   112.21
*to lt4ut114ti
5-063  lanl   iIssua                lIstl2ltll             119-Ia1 tull             tCsotilt                           13511.11       14.66       5866.33          6.06    12         6       6        2         2    6.6
6-111  Call                           lktai t/aSlOs        Ips-Isntfle              catives                           3661.66       1166.11       6154.60          6.66      I       08       6       n6       3n    6.66
1-62    itilileo Judi               SlstiIlle                Aelt slstelo           Uuellstloo                         3"1.6        11013.41      1061.13          1.66    1t        to       I        6         6    6.66
*-111    nterul efed  ..            I    ltao 1.1. tu ll    8Al IAdasttle           treattes                         11166.1   4111621.15   331111.11              6.16      6       if       6       3f        34      .6
6-88   ktogoz                        Istlllo l              l-lostuite              CleaotIn                           1131.66      1361.11       6636.61          6.60      I       46       I        6         0    9.11
sit    S nn  borbanonuat            rod., d el"             p-loIsstale             *nk  loCp/kutt 41                     6.66    63666.66    54116.6             8.11      I        I     Ill      Ill         6    0.11
*-111   blue loahiastt              plod. It Ibvs           aslo-lstult It             "ISanlsa                      151461.11   611611.11           1.11          1.       IS   1    1 4      l 3    J         tl I66   3.6
S 0889  1411162                     FAM.4  Clgisoitto,    gto-Iaotola              CrootOes                          566666.66   25S158.66   136516.66            6.68      S       It       I       41        It10.66
231066." 6 1316511.01    2414.13              6.63    1        m 3     34       1S5       I61   36."0
of    lilut  ot
-N     Sill.                         Iatiuat               Artisuo                   CratniH                            1111.11      2211.6       I11t1.66         6.t  1            23       1        1 6       8 1 6.6 
588    Illn                          Atluut                Lutiumut                  cttutlol                           16116.11     11.3131      616.66           6.6       I       11      it       of        26    c.60
I 141l hlao   Is km                  lituut                Ltilaut                   l Iatepls                          616.8J.    3333.11        111.t            1.6      31 It              I       1         I    6.n
*cn3   L.  . has-toll                 otiluut              kttlust                   Ispotases                         3616.6        2065.11      2131.1             .1.6    s 12              I      If       1i    6.0
I-d   D       ttJis . it uulI       Itttut t               Atliuut                  coutin                             11666.1       1111.13      1511,11          6.16    It        Is        11     3   11           0.8



o4                               U'l1 tit           s?  c11        st       I     11'1aeis      11's1111    lI'lUI       11a111e1                        eultdin                    alull    saubsai at p'                       "wIeI       IUSM
o                                   a    g         U s;    sI       c   I         II'ls         ecusit II'IIU   usenet                                  esgni si att                 atill       X        asa't                  *i       l   n-sa
X-' -@                                    ISa U    0        OI      eI       n    1     I I't .ea 1I    lesl,I'Uhllt sI I                                                                 *iitI@      iin   tiesulf ie"    tn ilnpid  %adI I amlsw     ;IIS
ce-a    a         s       e       ea      at    s- -e ies                    is        ga                             meismedia                   lzalligin sac  sligh              na1lsusag  I pimpU  Mig-
IS3111 so
II!   1555   51  151     111      tit     I     fsl-          annIa,t;   1s-casisi   lIallulltl                                                                                                    so: Dle"  Ss
toa              I it     a        ft      9     fllS        icl-Sslt    1a-aclas    gs-gsaaacc                       16l3ll               vOa llsjiI3    *135t1,  'leen    3            Clio  is        565l-5
aII              i s      is      I       a       s111        11'sin       es-ilSt   le 113 IIIUnidln3 Is                                  4ioUiSZI3          Ilals"it-I                   a  if udiof iIUS-a
Ia-as t          It       I        to     t a   i    se       loll         es11s111scl  IsaaIa                        sa0l33               vllimilshI1,  8liIi?tI -ull -I                  3111103  u's  lstat
1       I                 I t             I      fil tl       i 1till      iS 51tl1l    ili56i5l                 *lltinii3Uu5             'IP'ti         1    116,3I   1111            *lcslabes;  Bs    U-I
Iaa    a         1st      silt I                 fsilsl       Ui6SI    stisl    clla-a                      lei  aiiatt/jd    list         ios3ui31se            au1  atqrj                      35111W   5s11-
It0    1         1        I       II      ii 1 1 U'l                       ff'lll      111,11Mel                      **i'"1  i            volpaIil"i2        1t3p Sp*^   1tt 1 141                1311    lSitf -;
ntne$ISMi of
111    151       Uii:    ltft             it Uilalasa 1a 111s11 U            'IcItiU   11llatauSIcI
filt    4        ;6       116     i t     It    141           lilt   S       'litlis   fl'lStIs                   gI'lIUt 1e ilsolj nidlitlolx if ainqlq)   u       soXt| *00@114                    "is  W-
We    I          II           I i t i     it    fill          11t          l  HllM "50'5in Ie lIiM    valisti   la ili                            llpla  cliiiip iil                      381 S9    S ll     - #it
s.   e           s        e       ma      I      sm-a         Otld1u    11'ci111    Ui'l aiat                         ct sue      w *liS    lad 3 saSil sig       p      |e p i|     *0am1111 i            iota
-Is   V          It       I        it     I      lla s-seen         it    lIatssita   Wg-ggs,                         ie611tI3   ialltet   33 3iletU   eido  a l"8s11i                   3lv l   1n4  sI-t
Is ll'll    S1   Sl       I1is  is  t     I      c-             ISlc tl    H 111Sm    11u.1  IH IIIS113 ifeg  U1Sieli n *ia lu 1a3311101 1U                                                      s          Sll-S
ma-a al          m        a11     I       I      6W5          WlIsit   WaliSi    11'11                      Iits   ti n 6 i& ti   biilles  ' *  so sliolap          53555111      *getit    9 5ll5s63  %o-5
It'll        S     lt Si                        U ii  II   11g  wssu        1 asiemi    as-seam                       eusn]  'abuIst'c  la U618a q3 smhim  muita Pia                               eselj  lot-g
as-a    I        It      It       t       I     fll          1nisuit    fIlloisa    m1                      1In11u1u4aa 13 a4  ,ullhmtlc  13 afiiCe          t11301t  UJgMUfT      ii5liii'ti " ltMIg  I1NSl
a-al   it        St      Is       It      I      s            a11sa n    c-asa11    lsic   all-osla                  mailelds  .alkis'lc  la *meIli"          nin   at    d                        visit   cal t
ga-     I        it       It      I       I     eaa0          arcu9ic      WrMn;       0c-                  593 IiuVit3 k2  lNS  31bt3'ela4 t*  4I5 13  SItselfd eISSICeI3            141111A3 amS,  q -stooe-a
aml-    I        to      lt       g   I          a-           ca-mac1t    11 11e1e     eml-               Imhll; hiava/134tes  UIttlld la ilh lSei 35l13,V1d  iiINS                             403i   i   1u-s
We-     @    I  it       t I              I     fl'l         Il-lifl uollX    II's@1   1-                    13MM11 * tlhZZ     nitlli la }anilel"a glelfls, laipjj               183lus 11111u43116    U-1
ma-a    a        1      1        1       @it  Is  I  I  it's*  lilosg o$    ga'sac    ia-a                 i     n jim ftie   nbiiJ la 3         l3 sila  1u,  lt a.? 1 .t0.la   nu,ill   s1all"liia  ice-a
aca a    c       c                       ga          s-at tiii s   -Ill ga-a1 41141E3  zna  61i1111'cd 1' Ndi'l3l 96111305                                1133Ui, 34id                      it  stg-I
ga-a    tit      tLc      ais    It       It   1e-cita        Il-cslU11 eg-ggigsc   11a191t
es ilellet ..
am      i         i9t    Ill     it      I     HI-EtC        fIgea1la   as-gagas    ggllgate                         uelaedsi               *ieva:ss   clat t *teasna                   uaepe;msb se git-g
Ill m11            it    tit      it      s     ass           $1sftl        es-W nag    mamm1t1e                      esinedag               abelta.ns    aii333 au tl's't                linust  Islet  isa-s
t's     a        a       a        c       a     lals          ga-glaij    gasllgi       g- i'                  zI.esJ  d I'll               aitilaut                icelqsn            'side") is am         -lw
aieIqanq is
11'  tS   I ll           ti 1t   It    W11           16,195i1    l t'lUll   UtI
ace sit  tea  ags  scs  as ge-a   ti-cuss araicacs u-macst.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~isItilos a
n i9   *                 a        ma      i     gm-s slsl     1  s11t  19is-asee       Wa    a                         1flh3                  tIiit                 3561159  lingo) a tus ne  ime  gsa-a
e       Il       111  Hi l aa             11    tols          loll        11-IgIIUt   lI lieem t nselusedaa                                   tn1eits,               3l5335C                       naito 1N10-
c|.l-a    c              a        s       it    aa-ll         11ac-1t1    WO-Ncc:      gal-iti                            it'ns               Intlt                 1111i1esltsI          sionti id"   tea-a
U'l    WIMIC ataia  5~S1Jfl acm    uses t I  I  I  11  11    I  SIS                                                      suave                nnnn                  uuccdilastnr atwo
:mou liluu mniiv                                                                  u  a uuaa
te n PA switll isatu



snmutle ui Ifs
tinnw.mitt                          wnnn                   tttn.                    paint                        t.tn .m.ni.u ttUCt. mam vIllCUln maU   m "tuws mussnul   Ut
ci vn    8613?    MUn  MMlI  1111s.
3-166  itbisslete                   *III*$                 allies                   lituptle                           66.0         21116         13.              eec      I       ii       to i*t                 i c.e
1los nbIes 6'i.tit                  Ozbl                   SI tls                      is tisai                       362l.6        2111.1       11.66             *.g6     I       It        I      1          a    I.61
3    h6  hit                        bll t  prim            Illmrs tetat                        bc66 1611.11 3H                        S  l0      It11166. 1611              I       It        I      U          I    L.e
3-611  Skiel Ossninl                  mlselete            Nirs                     lipaslls                           l11.6"       n136.61      4411.16          6.16   12         41       I        4         6    6.66
662)   til k   Icifl                Inelseele              SItus                    hntlts                            14116.66  l      0lt."     li1CC            6.66     it      4I         I       5         S    0.60
&-41   stele tiapleal               Pailcati.l  A  state livels                     hIesl                            55N1166S 11 121 466.66    IMl.$$              C.1S    12       Is        5      66        II    6.65
so t ll.tel It
2263110.16   661166.11   2631.11S         5113.1       56      31 ns      1 S ol         2In    mn.31
is le. utalltiIn
-065  icitetle iOattt               PIb.M'stlet            I. Ketalliot             fert kap/butr  fiti 0.e                        1118.66    61111.66            1.16      a        I      126     H2e         I    5.10
*111  hIl hiut    flil.tes          CeaIt. 4  stIet        6.. mrtatIllga           hitl Cap/kurt fiI                     1.n      401.6S       IZIlICI           6.01    1C         6       Is      i          I    0.66
1-111  SAeltlas     Chitla1la       Peinseelei             led. witatllpe           creatla,                           4616.01      35911.2      2331.15           6.66    ii       6s        I        I        I    COO
6-51 t ltl  ital                    kttichs lt*uts    la. ietallitqa                tac  Cap/hti rit41                    0.n1    65S4.60    16153.46              CIS      I        I      36      316   1     6    6.66
306X      w111    i,1i1l           Ilittcs Snagel:,       IdC  Ietalila           lstk Ca/hedt lft                      SeC    41666.46    412161.              6.66      I        6      2He      1          I    0.16
30311  al1ttas Cat                  bItsi mtiEilpes   ld. Aetattlpe                 hik Cap/hutt 141                      I.n1    46661.6       316166.5          60        I        6       II      to         0    *.
36611  t11tlCe m      I il AL.      WaIn    rialilpts   IdO. latIlllp              hti  Cap/ktUn  lil                    1C1      311il1       33331.31 e11      1            1        1    6       so         I S.S11
eItl  hEtlil Ca1 11 S.L             latis btallitils   Id. ktililpe                 hait Cap/kurt 141                     0.       111  lt11       1 11112.25     I      1C  6       I       16       Il        0    11e
c-eu1  te. htaitialllat             PIed. of Capseles    IeV. kttlliln              fel t. tts tb   141                   I 6.1      11162.1    41166.91          i.e.      I        I      He      H1e         I *    .6
5-121  tells  ateprlsa              6Its *  rt             l.e. aetttllip              paisies                        6506C.66    4166l.6  1lOIlI              $IW.S0   1i 4t               o I i sI           12    0.00
to Stusta  tos@                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ^
6666.66   52C16.61   661366.22          5S11.111   26        in    I26       lilt        14    6.66 
It         Is. I  c kth
-8114  fPItshae  mitelm              hcth                  t. dOt Is    k           IsDpesils                       111e1  U36.011   65166.6         C.n                    10.00    If  36      S  Ill       32s   41.01
6-.13  t            iatl t d e     Picbte                   ..t 4     PecI           Ipae ut.i26 166@.6                              4.11  2S    612.41           6.66    12       to        I       26       to    6.60
3-66  Peckttle it St. Tis           Inctle                 Ita. of Is pite           anti"e                           1651.01       1661.36      6112.13           0.n    1        6s        I        I         I    6.n
so ebtetal to
23511626.6    412159.51    16615.11           6                i 2?32    6      216       116   42.66
-M    Ca"sptee                      lslsistlpt             hemves                   Vlet cap/hult 646                      6.6    12166.6        116.161           6.66      S        3      41       41         I    0.66
6-621  kesseups-Prlsk                 ittletsle            1uwL;es                 lhgt Cap/kuter lt                       6.00    31421.56    1112110             6.66      I        I     1in      in          I    0.6
3-106  3.  susitl                   Cca"e                  kialces                   Irpast.s                          H66."        4361.6        1131.16          0.6     132      41        I        I         I    SeC
30-31   lmtpessls t lialpn          Islitmele              lattices                 lipauslse                          1516.61 tH.11             11611.16       S611.1       I      66        1        1         6    I.0.
11-11   Ispretnlnm  latips          lspliule             kbrices                   btatie                            116.01       3       600.0  2146.66          1.66      6       41       I        S         6    6.6
&-62t k  lfata                      tpl esrl              kSer es                   Istopsles                         W66.6"  2INSe.6    2S1161.0                  6.06      6      a        it       I6         I    6.06
3-51  Lttis if   iitp l inesslm  a/intlt    ititnces                                 Inl tCp/kun  141                      0.1    46SS11.31    421t1.1S            1.10  I            I      11       3          6    6.61
S1-11I  6it. tll                    Oeptsttlst   llhtaU   ktti/tces                 Ort Ct/hkutt Iii                       1.01   16164.11    31161.61             100        I       I       I        3              0.116
3.8  Pittle  Jaqutl"       t caw l eabllcit.   Ientces                              tirateml                            1116.0      6135.3        12116.41         6.66    it        46       6             1         6 .11
I666 tl    t4    / tti1             lepienle               tntIces                 trestis                             gi.1" U      16S1S1       152.60           0.661     I       IS          I    11        11    0.6
5t2011.61   1111116   4111.11l            1415.56    11       311     11       1S         n      1.1                               d 0
it  istult it Coll
1-ns1  D . vId 1b                   Preuctlu .  lit    tuzttlehlG*nt itA| t el,     tt Cplhr Sf                             CS    1511.21    12 l    2.0           6.I0      0        3      66       Is         I    L.e6e
0-110  Sll  osrel                   toeet te It Cai                                 lpalest                            1166.16        16.6         26 111.60        .       62 I      4        I       6              6.16 
3-IJ  tlsa kutigu                  P*eit-.-p.a f            intll.     totl          Ospaul.,                          1361.61       $124.6       4411.24          0.0      It 43               I      S         1    6                                 o     



noM  1tincss 1I Li 7Dt
R un tfhpIlSi                       CCiO"CO   U0I 3tu3                                                           tOOD tM         111C. III       331.131 GU0t3e3 AIIl CGttt   tT110  LOLOII gPWIS 33rto3               "I
Do flltt    1ilt   1lilts    PLOIS 3liUt.
1 1II   hitl^  to.etrelat            tetmts                tetilt it Coir           tork       i CtpIe r (di               .0l    S5511.51    t1711,11             0.0      I        3      11S     HIl            0   111
1 tSI  It61 t Ii la C.tooonatir   Cnld30t0nit              ttitilo it Call           :PAao5lea                         4,1.111 t    IS.1          3 III.-1       10.46          11  16        I       4            I 0.l
SIN U     Iao                       tetIttaWS ftal,mhs   ktetilo et Cole            :Ipaimion                         0140.iS tl   Igs    U  11111.1 1.0 1  U                       it       St      It        it    *.0I
I              1   Set ol          Ittlesenti             Uitlle tI Coit           RIpaasl.a                         ISIII0.        111 111.23  SStt1            1.06      I       11        1      11         I    I'l.
I        Hl   If tl 9tlqut          tleteaots               etlI  at Coll bIosIat                                     11211.0       5612.13      4311.6           6.01      2 I     11        I      11            1.11
1111  6lhgnttto its elf             Coott                  ftitIle et COlt          ItP445lom                          3201.10       413.45       153.17          I.U6    12        i         I       I            I ' l.6
613 m oe  Coabotte                  Veteoets                ettlit tt Cir           Creatlocs                        113130.01    t10Nl.00    S113.01          11MItIS    12        to        1      1S        1S    0.61
*111  irolbotic Etito;g              osts5s latboetiq e ts  lottlo  t Coll          foit l Cap/lnr  I4o                  10.0      011241.01   1 60137            8.6       I        I      III     1o     t   I    6.11
16111  Sotbetic Ooittio           l lo3  i t.: 3thotlqeos  teitite it Ctlt          fott Cp/kI0.ao    04           l           16.0  26 U4 of    M110.51          111       1           I  [t6   I3l            I    6.0
I-UI tt btiacet                     ?mtla1letor            ftile tt Coll            Celol220 11011.11                               1151.11      IS 0155          1.11    11        Is        I      11        is   16.6
a lXetat l
11111.11   3301111.532    511S5S.1       17311.17S     1I  024         t       04        I55    1.11
e   t     t ou t
360|4  IIlamt It"c   tel            lotel                  fouls.e                  tor  Cap/euut  301                    6.66       9166.60     6502.6           6.6       6        3       71  1S      65   0.66
6.t      S 1166.6     H      I          3.311     I       I       1S       1S        I    6.6
all thaO l                                                                                                                                                                 I
15630366.6 113131N.513  11SStSi.ll    111571.tl  111    3303    S1315    1615             15S1  033.16
0llg   ' 
fD 00 
33
.                                                                            ,            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



MROECT COWETIm REpoRtT
INDUSTRZAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
DFI - DETAILED LIST OP APPROVE PROJECTS BY PUODPSE
vmiutim ian Ulm
ammmisssus                            c,6U tt311                                                                    cmw  if m).  awc. III            vlei.tu cumot "I alico    inn: ULOIS aMIo*    RMuto                     "I
a ~an  1       Ulu?mu l Iti:namc.
3120    I litewus it Ittl-6.ave  61u.igt to ciholt    6e8Iett                         Creatlem                           32166.66     22621.14    26141.61             6.66     22       6         6           0.1        1 66
6-0616  bEtel Uulue..                ShIlillegla             Wp-estleatiles5666                                                         11114.66     5062              6.60    U         16is   U                     2      .66
6-612  calk                          teItealestt/llla       6ae-iadlestzia           Catntlas1666                                     1216.1    11.16        6         .6614            4 0 to61                    1       .66
6-626  kbus                          Atitluat               Aatisaeat                 CItti"6                             136.0          12.11.6     1121.66           6.66      a       It        1        1         4    6.66
A-1161  Omitt I to.                  Prof. dIt toilets      Ope-IhtataIre             Cacatile366.6    212129.11   41616.16                                       11111.16      22       24        0       if        16     .66
6-611  U.s lacqten                   C-all t.aifIit          Aps-&illeental:e         cutatle                            146.           4126.12      6625.26           6.66    11        I6        I        I         2    6,6
6-WI  tilts                          Irtisamet              3rtlsaaat                 Cuetlisc                            soe.1         s.16  113   1616.66           6.66      I       32       22      41         14    6.66
6-641  Sicilya  Chamlqaee            Fred. dt limbs         11ts-4Ilmeatalle          Creattat                            2166.66       2116.1.6     6121.11           6.66    22        Is        6        2         2    6.66
6-653  ftea    to lithe, de Ill.  tatinseri.                 gaeAllsestalle          Cuectiec                            3466.66       1192.11      1311.13           6.66    12        66        I        I         I    t.66
40-66   keemt  had re  .6L.          *earzlttn,  ittZl      lits-ledostilt            Cueattic                          111466.661  466621.11   223615.26              6.64      A       It        I       if        2H    6.26
6-622  hoIllses  cilustila          teieizreale             let. letali)q.e          CruatIem                            4666.6611 11.2             1111.15           3.66     12       it        I        I         2    6.66
8-636  h4Ill Ceramic                 hat.Casst lirgile)   Cesisluctio,                Coettest                          411626.86   I1156.66            6.66           6,66     12       i6        I      21         2s   14.66
1-662  lctibea  hleeasslmj           holdoctI        i   fis do lhcae-aIlauitalre    Ceutitla                          651866.6    2163111.24   131129.66        91131.13       I1  2             I       12        31   IS.6It
8-N III   911Ssle2 as  4lqee         lotulicte               ticulies                 Ceatltee                           22616.66     166661.66     15666.46           6.661  A          62                 6            1 6.
$40165  Ipl3s                        had Iharacutetlques cishaqas et Flastique  Ceactila                                2211.1 11146.6 266.66    43169.66              6.66     22       46        6        s1       i 21 2.16
6-621  1. fault (11-116l             Pled. d'alltiats       Ille12AHettalts           Ctiejtil                            1166.66      1226.l        2165.11           6.66     22       It6                6      1         .1 6.6
6-666  Jettyl lit Icuecati)         lAttleaat               Alhatauat                 Cicatil                           276.6         36.11111.11                     6.65     21       42        5 1  111  11 6Ii          .66 
I641I  tegetat                       *6s1161u2i             Iltuetaimstric            CrIe.te                            25310.66      1166.62       016.11.4          6.66     4I       6                              16.66
I'M 661                              sail 8.2     fla tu      1vt3                    Cieat5aa                            1166.63      1696.16       1361.66           6.461             21I                             16.66
6-616  Patel fitaestaIies Oily   prad. di btite  HIt.  Ide-&2I.eteat&re               Citatlem                           266666 111.1         6 143  1113.16           6.66     22       46                6         26    66
6611  hatlsseule it vasty            hatisserle             ilge-Allslatalle          Creation                           13166.66      1131.16      51111.61           2.66     22       66        6                       66
1-666  hechel elle tS. Ives          ftcheile               lad.4. it  i bilt         Clutetsa                           21061.66      165.36        121.13           6.66    12        46        6        3I             66
6-301  ptine Jaiqais Chili           iamaaeat  Pablicit.   Icoelcts                   Callemto                           12126.66      61131.11      5211.61           6."      12       66        6        3         3    6.66
6-666  12jan0s laaulactai            Curbuaett de calelus ahaiqa. et llastilqa   Cue.tlee                              216666.66      14651.16      16131.29           6.66      I       it        6       II        if    6.66
6-622  llastlfao                     LgictIds Ktilta   s    Chugs, it Flastipte  CaeatIe,                               415666.64   210166.66           6.66      15626.66       4       if        6       II        46   1.1.6
6-662  Islet Prilacls                letisAmlt              uflSlabst                 CcitIat.                           236666         221.11 16.    6116.26          6.66    12        46        6        I         I    sit
6-692  flsne Comeditl                Irtearuts               teutili .t toil          Cstathm                           22666 D3266.66              5626.66       21123.11    22         66        I       is        I  15  .66
1-.1 I CI ciSi                      14.d. ClqAftttt3    RIN-6.1dilStrh               Cucatlie                          102266.66   2561266    22566                   .66      5       26        I       61        42    3.63
3-i  scots illalti               Iapnlherle              lshesct                  Crtatile                            6606.66       6215.51      $112.66            .2 1.            is        I       12        21    6.66
6-61Sale Nickel                  *tsteilueu              110tas                   Crurrie                            251146.6      1666.64       1169.66           6.66     22       66        61       1       6    6 610
-66shatuspie                     Suoigelnqei                                       eteAhaoa!   Ca .2s               612662.66    16666.66       17166.66       37166.66    12        to        6       41        4 616.66
3-66   Stite taipical                taulicatles Iista Stt  iisl,                      Walti,s                           S11566.66    216661.68   216666.61       10 i.6        22        t4       I       t6        16    6.66
6-666  filet plot cite A Coluett  lfitsasat                 lullassat                 cuitiois                           65126.6o    166IM      116.12 6161.11 I.6f2                     6         I        A         i    sIS1
86661  flktheat f2ll                 lit. Canst. IlbbIel  Ciaslueciclo               Cneatiee                         1160066.6     5116616.6    631666.66            6.46      A       30        6       62        61    6.66
16616  S:C Lsalije                 Fiii-a-p.itle            luthite et Ccli          Cmlai.,                            11666.01       665.2        01251s    .11   6.6        2        It        A       it2       I  12  .66
S OIIiel It
41161246.5   2166361.31   261611.113      21611.11    lit    1611         22      1     11  12222.14
rjQ    OZ
-6-U, Alled Iabhlsleu                Misco de ciatit        Cnsltreetolam             6aspaes2s                           8806.66       1441.221 26.1                  83       13       64        6        3         3I     .6
6-662   tiolqlie Fead huodect,       hause-Coateu           Iqia-6i6se.talai          IxpielliS                         612661.64    61442.0112121.641                 6.6               24        6       26        26   1226                                         U
9-2  Intai. hrad2l I Ce.         liii. dIthl            Ape-IIaetalg              lpaessia                           22406 is       2121.2611      16    6          .6      2        6         6        6              66                                     0
6- itCbu sIeslJes                &te4aalp-lhetau                                  Iipamsil                            6226.64      2116.22      2211.1966                   I       66        6        6         5     46
369Chattiala ftrea               Ilacais  it  inletsf   6;eAieaala                   passlia                         0206 to    41166.66       41161 4            6.6       6       29 I      S                  2I6.6
1-1t1  CaItCI 1 0iaCOIIe3            isla,ils met cassette Shute                      tapasial                           11106.66      6112.24      1545.6      1    666       12       6         I        I         6I     .6
6-216  lilt Isiakd                   Ceoitmi                IiitI2e at Cain           Ispamaile                          22666.21        I66 Is       236 66           6.36     12       4t        6        I         6    666t
8-616  lihshiuaK   6aliott           tiet                    [Wd, deIsl ithek         liptatio                         2330006.66    656666.66           6.66          6.66     2f   6        11I 6        2211125 6.46



i murnu                      KctmVu                  I                    plot                       cm, tnFl. Run. in   t.ite smans "I ama   Wus somt: omuit yw     11I
N  "flt   9851     NU  11116151MARC.
ISIS  feascele Saw.  lrtlueat             I~~~rtunwi              opasl"                           6I01          136         161              .II    It       46       I       I         I    0.48
s-ag   s. bs.e..a                 gelift                8.iliC                  sepuile,                                      HOUR nsm    u3.ai            o0      It       Is       I       I         I    3.16
A-166  Kill                       11ed. it Sirm         01st jet et fl.stlfu   irpuaste                        HiM1461      1166.6       16166.66          0.63      6      4S 5i                      t11 2  6.111
311-0    Riseu t ialpm            ?rel-.-por:i          "titll it Coll          tepesle                          11116.66     5193.16     446? 16          6.40    II       It       I        S        S    16.881
3666  typllite                    Robese                Rivals                  irpulee                         16401..,      1911 6111.U    613.1         8.66         IitI             I t1          6    11.11
11-13)  toolesslouas UIqoes       tepeluerte            Suckts,                 irpnh.e                          osMMs       1311.03.    116111.66      U0141.      6       !0       6       6         6    6.63
6-8)  lit'l laintm                5sssmbij4e tetill   Asisubile;                Sepaissls                      144136.111   366l6.16    11156.63           .0.6     S       15     M6      616       I1l    0.40
3-6111 J. v. has-Lolls            OrUisicit             Irtinuat                iqauls                          161M.0       3111'.15    )131.1s           3.96    12       to       I      30       36    6.64
3-306  A  Shauod                  fib. de feriuqus       Aires                  Spapule                        15M6.6    911164.1)    85)46.26         S U 563. 10          66     UiS     21       US   It.3"
36046  Ja-litiIpi Viae           litIisagt             Attilsaut               lirpani                          143I.6       2S14.4?     2824.34          3.63    it       to       I       I         I    6.36
31-0381 tuopitlw  de  We~          Itc                  3.6. 4 ik t. eh         lirpisses                        1634.66      4194.12     1012.14          .0.1    it       48       I      to       it    6.03
I-Ni  L'Art it Is C.rdssatrle   terlemsoee              "sttill it cul           saall."nv                        646l."1     311.        11)15.62         8.68    12       to      6I            4         6 .46
3-316 UK            litaCs        t tsm.   feululs   testila it Coil            lipmnlee6164                                 11146.61    16626.44          6.36    it       48      58      43        36    8.6
3-16    ihlliee               ligHts                Slurts                   Irpana                           63. 3  11)1.96           131).63         0.660  I         26      to       It        a    6.68
it6 V. ital                    tupelutle            Untiets                 Iquastes                        SI11163.63   "1111666    151916.66         6.06      I      66      88       to        I    8.63
3  "1 lae  I Sol              lettmats              bttltl  it colt          ispoisul                         S1116.66    6111.11      1181.66         6.66      I      II        I      II        6    9.66
3 11 ILof lSetIqet            lettnuts             Wteeth  it Colt          irg"iuue                        2226.601    1412.63       4311.46         6.06      I      if       I       it        I    6.66
3- ttI irretet lIuIj           Couture               Setrtsi it Colt        Supiusls                          3266.66      411.41       313.61         .061   Ut        It        I       I        I    3.66
3.315s  SickI lessukeg            Snlsulio              Nvers                     g"irp eal.13.                               41314.1      40$5.2          0."      Ut      If       0        4        I    6.64
13-3131 Pit asutert.l             lecutesi     I Jets   blssslie                11rpaine                          2666       1443.6       6146.6        3126.2       6      I6    1He      2ts0       11  .66
A-11113  "uls                     SItupl   . f"ilets   b,et-Alisutahae           iqulale                        161916.66   1414.14 1111.11 II.S.0.4 316                   16     HeI     1e6           18.63
3-ISO  3.*.  uphiul               toleslutle            &Fe-llmetalltr          3rphs5le                         16M6.3       42)1.42      3143.51         8.86    it       4s       I       I         I    6.03
11I11  ieghs liteceelse            its to fir           le.  eittalipe          irpiulus                         0116.66    4163.68131 66il.66          1160.66    it       46      23       It       Ua   4.63
11-611   Shut ihimnmuet           Prod. it hi.          Ipe-ladustils           Iirpassles1546.66   166366.69                                6.66         6.60    36       46      33      Ill      its   16.60
63661 Seket ket                  ftrdets thitmlu        Ollmiqu  it IlistIpe  fepanl                             20166.66     16113.12     1111.66         6.68    It       46       0       6         6    6.36
113610.166   S131511.61  11366115.21    16361.6?   311    1411    1121    2111        61   H31.M
**Uiuustoluts
b 31    istiliteel  Stij         Shstllleete           Mpe-tulnteilt           lulerulsitle                     25133.63     1222.4?      161S.22         0.86    12       44       6        6        4    6.06
5161  3.3. trqe"ltle              3.t. Cent. SISitle   CessttKtctt      ~       Saieelstle                      142666.66   111611.51    5155.31s          6.061     I      21       I        I        I   3.36
31331  tiles                      Lalltirt               qete-lllurinur         Uateuluistlem                    601-1604    1561.2       11.13.1          0.66      I      11    1M       12          6    6.86
6-00   Lts keelis dliuti          labIt                 Slurs                   Sweliuasitils                    16090.61     251.14       2266.63         8.66      1      12       I       I I       a    0.36
6-61   1463                       PrdKctAs it site   CHaiqas It 1`listifue  11911CIIuSlie                     21366661.6616666                0.36         0.661.1   if     to     MI      91          3   I5.18t
1-116  Urea                       Ptud. it Saqurlas   Ialt.tle                  Ilrlte                           6664        2536              .3          86       2       4       6       6               3
31I1113.66 55616 11161 2.11                 0.66.1  .1  46  Il1    fill    1246        It  143.1
It vat Capllemee  IllII-
13-3614  Ct                       kwe  lharaeeitlpes Chlmlqut t flistlqet  Sotl Cipikusai  Ii                       6.66    651.11M       511645.33        6.6      0        2      of      61         3    6.69
-63kOatla ialbti              fhU.4cilet            la. Irtilliqet          SeeS Caipleaer 146                   6.6     14463.66    66116.66           661      6       I      III     126        I    0.66U'i1
3.353  Igelllal StirIcts      leeduttn lee daals fblhulp  it Plautlqt  bort Caplkrure fit                        01.11    6636.3      636.08            6.63     I        I      32      32        6    8.9
8-OH5  lqrlceIluruI SerluiC       Prudetlea disgrlts Otaique it flastlqat  loek Caplknit (Ai                        $.6     10336.66    662466*1          6.46      I       3      it       3?        I    3.36
3-fl)  kiunsetl itc   03.1 11  fredtit . it oflelae     lige-Illutatalee        Sart Ceelkrurr 6di                   .0.4    26411.6011 55J.MA             0.33      I       I      its     fee        I    3.66                                 s
11-M6   Coterpecl            -     ats to plastIC       bluito. it flastilp  bt 3     Cip)kure Ii3.8                         62116.06    $1149116           6.661    I       I       45      of        I    0.86
33)0  Coaputec                    Ialerutiatl           kiulce                  Sai N itplkuurr fil                 3.36      116.11.3   14126.301         0.63     I       I       Is      Is        I   0.46
3-601  PerIdl liei                fla,ictlea de fit    fertIl it Colt           letk Cip/itaar  14                   6.56    151.1$    53126.6             8.68      6       I       to      to6          06.64



0
'-'In
.  a.e
Woo  OIS        UU1   ItE9   DUl    tt   9USO UUt           SUM1  (91HE661
fil    I        MI     516    li       I     WIII         1110161  aetU1,  561  WWIHs12PS                                   36  i  iae   eI,ieausI                      ite   aa'ss*
nri    s        lit    oisl    a       I    fil          alnlus.    41l   1 s ea 0                     itm)""Iuift      2's  't   a eils1    aalnv*  "Ilia            Seilieql 3s.181111s os
U.e    a        ISI 11   I    I       I    U'l          ltssm I       oISt    fII l                iHi flmnSI3 lie         *u18islu s IIPmvl gaissU                   6 1         l3ieu  UsI
sit~    sit    I      I    6851         HItilI    I*LISI    N5                    III lsnwdI3 tie                11$I4'                 of 3Ilia                 l"i    3t3U
U'S    *        It     is t           I    fil               t 11  11111H    UU1U                  III Ul apJ41 lss       saiUIIIt                  a)M   so aim                 flin ql  IUI
sSS     iti   Ms       I       I    ess          sm-satan    irsitti1   fri               III uuaufift  lift       81aI'a'us.0e'l          8salutute                    *'Sis  am-s
141    I        t"I    Sol     t      9    fll'          fil'l11i11 2*'@11   ol'i                     131 m1t44013131      81111IM111-fl            *lihelkill                  u31111t  Un-
W55    5        oil    nli     I      I    01                 1     SllCll SSU 1t 5 II1  I  lna'sk if              S *iite ieieISt 6lit  'Psi *iseie                               lt 55I-I
6 l4   S I      i      is      I      I       l l111    SSIifit   fill                            iII 1141413 ins              1011381U4i3             Cillie 3a flifl U                 INS
o'     I        IIs    It      1      I    566           *'stumt   caast1    s'                  Ias  fiu3niJ1, Oslo wiltna isa bilia                  sallald         "Ifni ali"S88 3-S
it S    0      ISI            S    I111         IVIiSt    P11651o   656                   III 39164/4  138 iNS dii"ii la 05;65t3               SISBISIP      *iSled @ to fl 11 ,11 .v-
SI'S    *       it     It      1      6    60'6         1tl1   l t1*,11    U83  1@1111                            pe11113 nIJa               ll. 14  i  e811esedaa      ni'@ OFpisa l.     sm-s
I~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~~~~~~4 0|                      t                     I    011# l14      t1'111|1   it'lttlS   101                 I 1t1   s/d  ginollX            113138 *"bIttl    ulsob                M11t p1a1  "M.lPal@  12|
en              It     oIf     I            W 651        litSll l       I 511    We'5 IJUst/di3 lies                       'iieuaei           Ini nit 3181) l I3I.IIs1: ul-S
e~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  lit@                                 I    I  fi  ll-    it'llt ll fl tI-ISIII JJIIA$ 1t1"t414    asinlumln-  naltoiiin                                                                  "in*|11  awe
iSO    S        ItU    It      I      I    W1S           0MM        "VlS      Sll'               III 3iWSJ13 II'  " t"IdIPI 14 UiuliP  '63NI UI  SS4331    INIIIPS ea 'sli"aa  r-s
e-a   @         er      mo     a l  liU                  S-IS I flus            n                 m       UUtisss   es's  III          -PI4sJI3 p's  "',us.s sea 'p iuf d a ofepi  *'1slXue'um*pi us-U
".s'*    S             I              S    1'S          #55161    #*-5        IS,1               11W  321113 visa               aitlqann              linsp            "aIfou 1' no  1ag-
u-s    a         n tIn 9 t1     1           f ll         s lnlt    u-ian;   eUl                    I aII    $e3ins 1If 1 111041u                      sleaa          teal'us'3 Hillis  Iw-
U'l I           IS     Is      t      I    "'e           U'UIU      slisilt    U's               ID  tma Pj: lie#ltvs       nto's         salano'. citil           'I's t II HO still"i  IUI
ps'@    g        1i    Ist            I    651          Utlilti    1611i1il   0'S                 ItI iSH #13 P8            "iitt'se1   *'pi  gi" til." tall"       'WI Ii1 "3 8ilIO 1341-
510    S    l U      t              5    P@'liS     I1",I  S  t   1'1        P l   lsL )lnZ4/4  134 lAS                 3 s&O     'pit    silinai  "11163                1I still"  I6-1
S I'            l iCt    IN    I      I    f'l           **'91H1    W518       11 I'II 131164113 Ws                            liilttl' P   I1Si6i las1     n "4t3ins       aa IIs  0te1s
Ig              lit    lit     I       I    fie        ll u-u!sal agna    Wsee                    1iuw nI  llses          *lii?t'ii--pi   'St       3 @ 1113*ll11               "t 'ICIS  01-1
srl   a         ii     za             g    gesfIF  I         i  19-111 attn    See                 iii u      3 11ef ell  1     t. a  laui  *Daise01s. maall f        ea11s  mKn sU  lN-S
11             11      9 l          is | l's     19 IIS     l llsi    of's                    31|1 11I412110  itulg     110  bli4 "lsi  13811110                1819 JM1 @|e 111-11
fil  I          It 11   11            I    ofU's         WlM'ii           1161  I's                IIIjn w         vnUI    P4mII l n           lUlns       PI11          180 Jn3   10 UIf-
"It   S         It     It                I      I Pso,   65015       iSil    01'S                  I  iis/It1 lis"           "loil-  li3     l 511.5                  iA   li in      t P5  R1-
14g    p 1      U9     I       S       I    ttI liU      *S'tUll  IP    P  16      18 1                 64 /31 li44      'X3 11ti n'ii lt             't3teee                3   p 114    Us -
Pa    I         lit    Nl    t         I    all          lt*ilt   fliLit   W5$ 1II 'inas/I t ties                                  1UtNilIi        intoI '11,S141a             311    ia  pg-u
P'S    I        at l   U       t       I    fil SC'llS1116   fSiII IUU                             IIa 31-s/i 1.                   UlUast '           ltlilhl            qI6II-,.1,3    163-5
wan ou ssim  aus Us1  aa a
U         smurn          o firmina un slo  Ulm  aU is  as    s         in31 MA Is                             'ln                  amuW               IUWI                    lu=u
MtAus I nst soutsu
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 H-                                       D                                                           .1511 P35



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
FDI's Financial Results
1.       The following are IDA's comments on FDI's financial results.
FDI OperatinK Results, 1982-1987
(In US$ Thousands)
Year Ending
30 September:            1982     1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
Operating Income          8.9      41.8    137.0    255.8    251.1    369.2
Operating Costs         209.3    236.8    263.7    257.6    291.2    232.4
Operating Surplus
(Deficit)              (200.4)  (195.0)  (126.7)    (1.8)   (40.1)   136.8
Provision for Losses      -         -      100.0      96.8    109.8      58.8
Total                  (200.4)  (195.0)  (226.7)   (98.6)  (149.9)    78.0
Government Subsidy      344.3    140.8    103.7        -        -         -
Yearly Surplus
(Deficit)               143.9    (54.2)  (123.0)   (98.6)  (149.9)    78.0
Cumu'ative Surplus/
(Deficit)                         89.7    (33.3)  (131.9)  (281.8)  (203.8)
2.       FDI showed an operating loss during its first three years; these
losses were covered by a Government subsidy, as recommended by IDA. In 1965
and 1986, it had a balanced operation and by 30 September 1987. it had shown a
small profit. All these results were before provision for bad debt or losses.
FDI, however, had to create a provision for losses on its guarantee
operations. By 30 September 1987, this provision reached US$238,000, as
compared to an accumulated deficit of US$204,000.
Reasons for Lower Income
3.       The appraisal forecast indicated that by 1987 FDI should have had a
surplus of about US$910,000 (including US$650,000 in provision for losses).
However, interest income on rediscounting operations had been far below



- 42 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
appraisal estimates, because resources available for the rediscounting
operations have been lower than expected. On the other hand, as long as FDI
had access to foreign exchange, commercial banks applied for rediscount for
loans granted for investments or working capital. When FDI had fully used IDA
funds, it started accumulating local currency as a result of loan repayments,
and could not lend its funds, since the commercial banking sector also had an
excess of liquidity in local currency.
Administrative ExDenses
4.       Administrative expenses, however, have remained largely as estimated
in the SAR, in spite of the reduced level of operations.



PROJECT COMPLETION REORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 11S1-4A)
INTERMEDIARY: FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL (FDI)
PROJECTED AND ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENTS. 1982-19870
(in UwuOC)
1982*             1983              1984              1985              1966              1987
Pro-
jected             pro-              Pro-              Pro-              Pro-              Pro-
*-     Ac4_ua   lected   Actual  lected   Actual  lected  Actual   lected  Actual  lected   Actual
Interest Incone                86        1.3    262       31.8    463       104.5   720      235.9  1,032       236.1            265.4
Guarantee Fees                  6        0.2      17       0.4      31         4.0    48       10.2      69        7.0              7.4
lnterest on DeposIts            7        7.4      2t       9.6      40       28.5    60        9.7      86        5.8             62.8
Other Income                    -          -            -        -         -        -       -            -        2.2              33.6
Total Income                   99        8.9     3D0      41.8    534       137.0   828      255.8  1,187       251.1             369.2
Expenses 
Personnel Costs                8        13.6      1047.4           10        68.1      31 82.5            7      214.9            166.6
87    <           120   1            70               231   4           277 
Ad*unistrative Expenses               L62.4               58.9               64.1            165.0                66.5             56.2
Depreciation                    2       33.3       2       3D.5      2        31.5      2      10.1       2       9.8               9.6
Provision for Losses           t0        -       178       -        362      100      595      96.8    648       109.8             58.8
Total Expenses                 99      20u9.3    300    236.8    534         363.7   828      354.4    927       401.0            291.2
3333333   33=* 33Va 333       33   3333333  33333 sa  33333   3333   3333333  awe3ome              3333233
Net lnaome (Loss'               -     (200.4)           (195.0)      -      (226.7)     -     (98.6)    260     (149.9)            78.0
Subsidy ftm Government          -      344.3       -     140.8       -      103.7              -        -        -        -
Surplus (Deficit) for tho
Year                            -      143.9       -     (54.2)      -      (123)      -      (98.6)    260     (149.9)            78.0
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit)    -      143.9       -      e9.7       -       133.3)    -    (131.9)    260      4281.8)          (203.8)
*AII fIscal ymIre end ea SO September.
**Fescal yer ending on so September 1082 Includes start-up figure. for July to September 1981.
ssApprateal Repert projectionc.



PROJECT COUPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
INTERMEDIARY: FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL (FDI)
PROJECTED AND ACTUAL BALANCE SHEETS. FY 1 92 TO 1907*
(in USI'O00)
1982              1983              1984               1985              1966              1987
Pro-               Pro-              Pro-               Pro-              Pro-              Pro-
jected*   Actual   lected   Actual   lected   Actual   leeted  Actual   leeted  Actial   lected   Actu.l
Assets
Cash                            162.0    244.9    775.0  1,074.3  1,155.0    450.3  1,282.0  2,923.9   1,478.0 2,002.0            1119.7
Deposits                        -         50.0     -       100.0     -        *00.0     -        -        -       500.0            1,562.0
Interest Recelvable             -         18.6     -       151.7     -         9.3     -          4.5     -         6.4               6.0
Total Current Assets            162.0    313.5    775.0  1, 26.0  1,155.0    -5S.6  1,282.0  2,92b.4   1,478.0 2,508.4             2,689.7
Portfolio
Loan Portfolio Gross          1,440.0     17.4  2,920.0   966.2  4,790.0  2,295.1  7,220.0  2,481.0   9,980.0 2,916.1              3,167,0
Less: Prowlslons                 l0.0     -       101.0     -        349.0    100.0    704.0    196.8    996.0   179.3               23B.1
Total Net Portfolio           1,430.0     17.4  2,819.0    966.2  4,441.0  2,195.1  6,516.0  2,284.2   8,992.0 2,73l.8             2,928.9               41
Wet Assets
Flxed Asse+s                     8.0      85.0      6.0    63.8        4.0     45.0      2.0     34.9     -        26.4               49.2
Others                          -         -        -        -        -             -              5.0              -                  -
Total Net Assets                 8.0      85.0      6.0     63.8      4.0      45.0      2.0     39.9              26.4               49.2
TOTAL                         1,600.0    415.9  5.600.0  2,356.0  5,600.0  3,099.7  7,800.0  5,252.5  10,460.0 5,271.6             5,6e7.8
urn......  m,........  m...U    5i............  . a............  a........  - ... ...... ............... ...... ............... -s-.aS-   *.a... . ...- .5.3m....
Liabilities
Short-Term Llabilitles                     6.5     -        ll.3    -          29.0     -        36.8               7.9              105.6
Capital and Equity            1,600.0    265.5  3,600.0  2,155.0  ;.A*Vn   3.104.0  7,800.0  5,347.6  10,200.0 5,545.5            5,766.0
Surplus (Defielt)                        143.9     -        89.7     -        t33.3,    -      (131.9)    260.0  (281.6)            (203.8)
TOTAL                         1,600.0    415.9  3,600.0  2,356.0  5,600.0  3,099.7  7,800.9 5,252.5  10,460.0 5,271.6             5,667.8
*----J.  *------  *------ a......  a*-----  u.s.a..  a......  *------ *------- *...                  u..u.-----a.
All fiscal years end on 30 September.
Appralsal estimates.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
PROJECTED AND ACTUAL FINANCIAL RATIOS, 1982/83 - 1986i87
1)82/83              1983/84              1984/85               1985/86              1986/87
Pro-                 Pro-                 Pro-                  Pro-                 Pro-
jected*   Actual    jected    Actual    jected    Actual    ilected    Actua:    iected    Actual
Average Total Assets            2,656.t)   1,386.0   4,825.0   2,778.0   7,227.0   4,325.0   9,981.0   5,352.0                  5,589.0
Profit Before Taxes as Z of
Average Total Assets                4.3      -           6.4      -            6.1     -            6.9      -         -1.4**
Profit After Taxes as Z of
Average Equity                               -N o    P r o f i t s -
Financial Expenset as I of
Average Total Assets                         -N o    F i n a n c i a I    E x p e n s e s -
Administrative and General
Expenses as Z of Average
Total Assets                        3.7       17.1        2.2      13.1        1.7       8.2        1.4        7.5                  5.2
Income From Loan Portfolio
as S of Average Loan Port-
folio                              11.3        4.3      11.1        6.2       11.5      10.3       11.9       8.6                  10.6
Provisions as I of Outstand-
ing Portfolio                       3.)     -            7.3        4.3        9.8       7.9       10.0        6.1                  7.5
* Projected by Bank staff at Appraisal.
**  No profits intil 1986/87.



PROJECT COWLEnON REPORT
HAITI
DUThRIAL aCEDIT PROJECT
(CtEDIT 1181-HL._
THE CAMERCIAL DANCIN SY
STATEMf OF GEWITIUM AT OECEER 81. 1067
(in uSSEl mI iIe
BNC      BPH       HUH      SGB       BNP      BNS       CBNA      FNBB     BICH      Total
ASSETS
Resources Available   64.2        6.6     27.2      49.3     22.9      27.5      16.7     41.5      0.1    256.0       46.0
Portfolio              49.9       9.9     37.7      39.9     35.3      34.1      12.2     21.4       0.4    240.8      43.3
Fixed Assets           19.0       0.6      1.1       5.6      0.2       0.7       1.3      2.0      -        30.5       5.5
Others                  9.1       0.8      2.7       3.0      7.8       0.7      4.4       0.4      0.1      29.0       5.2
TOTAL    143.2      17.9     68.7      96.8     66.2      63.0      34.6     65.3       0.6    556.3    100
=Mnm.    am===   awm==      M-Wm      an===    =mS=    =name   woman   .m- -            w .     wm-nw
LIABILITIES
S.
Deposits
Sight Deposits         21.4       1.7     21.0      29.9     25.3      10.0     13.1      26.8      -       149.2      26.R
Savings Deposits       56.3      12.7     21.3      51.2     19.2      47.3     14.8      27.6      0.2    250.6       45.1
Terms Deposits          8.0       -        8.6       6.3      2.2       0.9      0.7       6.3      -        33.0       5.9
Sub-total     85.7      14.4      50.9     87.4      46.7     58.2      28.6     60.7       0.2    432.8      77.R
Sight Debentures       39.2       1.9     10.8       2.0      5.6       0.7       4.3      1.8       0.1     66.4      11.9
Term Debentures         4.4       -         1.8      0.9       8.8      0.8       0.2      0.8       -       17.7       3.2
Others                  -         0.1      0.6       1.7       1.6      1.5       0.6      0.1       -        6.2       1.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES    129.3       16.4     64.1      92.0     62.7      61.2      33.7     63.4       0.3    523.1      94.0
SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY
Capital                 5.-       0.9      3.8       4.7      3.2       1.7       0.7      1.4       0.3     21.7       3.9
Statutory Reserves      8.9       0.6      0.8       0.1      0.3       0.1      0.2       0.5      -        11.5       2.1
13.9      1.5       4.6      4.8       3.5      1.8       0.9       1.9      0.3     33.2       6
TOTAL    143.2      17.9     68.7      96.8     66.2      63.0      34.6     65.3       0.o    556.3   100
.   _ _   .   .



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
PARTICIPATION OF BANKS IN FDI REDISCOUNTING AND LENDING TERMS
(in Thousands of US$)
No. of               Amount                            Of Which:
Opera-               Redis-
tions        2       counted      2       Short-Term      Long-Term      Total
Local Banks
BUH                                17          15       2,771      34.7          164          2,607        2,771
SOGEBANK                           13          11      1,178       14.7          448            730        1,178
BNDAI                                2          2         950      11.9            -            950          950
FHD                                45          39         259       3.2            -            259          259
SOFHIDES                            4           4         262       3.3            -            262          262
BNC                                 2           2          50       0.6           50              _           50
73      5,470       68.4
Foreign Banks
First National Bank of Boston      15          13      1,088       13.6          593            495        1,088
Citibank                           12          10         927      11.6          545            382          927
BNP                                 4           4         509       6.4          194            315          509
Total                             114         100       7,994     100.0        1,994          6,000        7,994
252           75Z
I Dl
mxW



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1131-HA)
Review of Four Operations Rediscounted by FDI
(All amounts in USS Thousands)
Of Which
Amount of   Amount of      FDI's        IDA        Sector or
Borrower   Investment  Bank Loan   Rediscount   Financing   Activity
Le Natal     525        325.0       292.5        k51.5       Print:.ng
Fishermen
Quarters   1.330        500.0       450.0          -         Fishiig
IPHASA       215        150.0       100.0         64.0       Pharmutceuticals
Gefesa       977        550.0       480.0        323.5       Feed Pill
1.1      The first subborrower, Le Natal (a printer), did well, witt. sales
above the projected figures, and kept production costs within the pircentage
of sales projected at appraisal. Le Natal paid its long-term (4 years) loan
two years before it was due. An analysis of FDI's report on Fishermen
Quarters shows that anything that could go wrong, did. FDI admits that the
targets in the feasibility study were optimistic; these targets were lowered
by the consultants hired for the in-depth studies carried out in preparation
for the eventual follow-up IDA Credit. Fishermen Quarters for the last two
years has achieved only 40Z of the reduced sales targets, while operating
costs have increased. Furthermore, half of its fishing fleet is izirobilized
for repairs. The net margin on sales was reduced to 2Z, as opposed to 15 in
the amended projections of the feasibility studies. As a result, thte
subborrower had to stop debt servicing. The third subborrower, IPULSA, is a
pharmaceutical concern that had long wanted to convert its rudimentary
production practices into a small-scale industrial plant. Commercial banks
were unwilling to finance such a venture, until FDI agreed, after a study, to
approve a rediscounted loan. Results confirmed FDI's findings, with sales in
1988 reaching 4002 of 1986 turnover, and net profit on sales increasing from
26Z in 1986 to 33Z in 1988. IPHASA is planning to expand its production line
and marketing efforts soon. The fourth case, General Feed, S.A. (G3EFESA), is
in dire-straits.  While maintaining its sales targets, production c3sts have
rocketed, and its operating profit margin was first reduced to a fraction of
projections and then turned into losses. This firm also has stopped servicing
its debt. This default has not been transferred to FDI, because tha lending
bank has continued paying the monthly installments to FDI.
1.2      Although the above analysis has to be seen in the context of an
economic environment which deteriorated in the past two years, largely as a



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
result of the continuous political upheavals registered in Haiti, a close look
at the poor performance of two of the four projects covered by FDI's
evaluation shows that the original financing files on the basis of which loans
were granted may have been too optimistic in their income projections. It is
also obvious that the enterprises were not able to contain their operating
costs or improve their profit margin. Better supervision would have
recognized these deficiencies earlier, which may have led to corrective
actions. FDI's technical capacity for evaluation and supervision of its
operations has not been sufficiently strengthened. However, one must not
exclude the possibility that enterprises could present doctored figures to
FDI. Balance sheets and some auditors' reports have no great value in Haiti,
and there is very little that FDI can do to correct this situation.
Continuous comparison between the projections that the firm makes when
applying for a loan, and actual results should be regularly carried out, so
that discrepancies can be noted and investigated. The banks do not trouble
themselves much to scrutinize investment plans and profitability projections,
since, in most cases, large shareholders in these enterprises are clients and
sometimes provide their personal guarantee for the loans. However, FDI needs
to further strengthen its capabilities, by building up professional middle-
level staff proficient in project evaluation and follow-up supervision.



