Document of                    FILE CoPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3218-HA
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
March 24, 1981
Projects Department
Latin Amerîca and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Gourde (G)
$1           : G5
GI            :  $0.20
G1,000,000   :  $200,000
(The Gourde has, since 1919, been pegged to
the U.S. dollar at the rate of G5=$1)
ABBREVIATIONS
BNC                Banque Nationale du Credit (National Credit Bank)
BNRH               Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti
(formerly National Bank of the Republic of Haiti)
BPH                Banque Populaire Haitienne (Haitian Popular Bank)
BRH                Banque de la Republique d'Haiti (Bank of the Republic
of Haiti - successor to BNRH as the central bank)
CEGES              Centre de Formation aux Affaires et a la Gestion
(Business and Management Training Center)
EDI                Fonds de Developpement Industriel
(Industrial Development Fund)
IDAI               Institut de Developpement Agricole et Industriel
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Institute)
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
ILO                International Labor Organization
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INAGHEI            Institut National d'Administration, de Gestion et
de Hautes Etudes Internationales (National Institute
for Public Administration, Management and Higher
International Studies)
INFP               Institut National de Formation Professionelle
(National Vocational Training Institute)
OFATMA             Office d' Assurances Accident du Travail, Maladie et
Maternite (Insurance Office for Labor Accidents,
Illness and Maternity)
ONA               Office National de l'Artisanat
(National Handicrafts Office)
ONAPI              Office National de Promotions Industrielles
(National Office for the Promotion of Industry)
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
SEN                Societe d'Equipement National (a subsidiary of IDAI)
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
October i to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A.    The Economic Setting                              ...............                 1
Employment  es ............ .............. ........                              1
B.    The Manufacturing  Sector  . .......... .. .. . .  ..           .......           2
Growth and Structure  ............             ..   ...  ...........             2
Manufactured Exports  ........  ...............................          .       3
Industrial Policy  ..........  *........... ...........................          3
The  Investment Code  ...................... .  e c *.... ...             3
Tariff Protection  . ............................... .                    4
Technical Assistance Services  ..........................                        5
Government Industrial Projects  ..... ............                               5
C.    Prospects for Industrial Growth  ........................                        6
Il. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A.    Financial  Institutions and Regulations  .................                        7
G,eneral  ......................................................                 7
Central Bank  .............................................                      7
Financial Institutions  .................. . .  ................. t .            8
IDAI  .................................                                   8
Monetary and Financial Policies    ........ ......... ...                        9
Interest Rates and Financial Spreads  ...............                     9
Inflation  .........................o       ...................           9
Foreign Exchange Reserves  .......... ..... .......                       9
B.    Performance of the Financial  System   ....................                     10
Intermediation  . ...........            ..............................        10
Sources of Finance  .............. .. . .a.* .............. a          ..      I1
C.   Issues and Outlook  . ................  ...... ... a t  a a ....... .            il
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Mr. J.R. Calderon-
RosseLl and Ms. Samia El Baroudy of the Industrial Development and Finance
Division, LAC Regional Office, which visited Haiti during July and August 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
III. THE PROJECT
A.     Objectives  and  Institutional  Structure                         .................     12
Background  ............. ......*........        *. ***...**............*...  . ........  12
Project  Objectives  ....*0.. ... ... ..              ..............       *...... *...  12
Institutional  Structure  ... ..... . .   ..  .....   ........ ....*..                 12
B.    The  Industrial Development Fund  .......o...o...o ........                             13
Operating  Criteria  ............................................... ....              13
Management  and  Staff  ..* ........... ... .. . . .   ..................... .         14
Financial Resources and  Prospects  ...                    ...................         14
Projected  Operations  and Results  ..................                          15
C.     Financing  of  Subprojects  ..............                  ......... ....             16
Types  and  Sizes of  Subloans  ............................                           16
Lending  Terms  .................o........... .............                            16
Terms and  Limits of Guarantees  ..........................                            18
Subproject  Appraisal  and  Supervision  ...................                .          19
Eligible Financial  Intermediaries  .....                   ............. ....         19
D.     Technical  Assistance  ...... o ................ ........ ..                           20
Assistance  to Ultimate  Beneficiaries  ..........   ......                            20
Institutional  Technical  Assistance  ........                      .............      21
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.     Credit  Administration  . ..........  .... ............ . . . . .. .  .                22
Amount  and  Terms  ................. .   ............                   ........      22
Terms and  Limits  of  Subloans  .....              ................ .         22
Procurement  .......................................                            23
Disbursements  ..........................................                              23
B.    Benefits  and Risks  ...... ............                    ...................         24
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .*..................   o  ........                       .      26



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Table 1.  Gross Domestic Product by Sector, 1970-79
Table 2.  Number of Enterprises, Employment and Payrolls by
Industrial Activity, 1976
Table 3. Manufactured Exports
2.   Table 1.  Balance Sheets of Financial Institutions, 1979
Table 2. Credit
3,   Table 1.  FDI Main Assumptions in Financial Projections
Table 2. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Proposed Credit
Table 3. FDI Estimated Balance Sheet
Table 4.  FDI Estimated Results of Operations
Table 5. FDI Projected Cash Flow
4. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



t
.



1. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR lie
A. The Economic Setting
1o01      In the last decade the Haitian economy experienced an encouraging
GDP growth of 3.8% p.a., mainly due to the more dynamic performance of the
menufacturing, public utilities and construction sectors. Since 1970,
construction has been the most active sector as a result of significant
ivrestments in infrastructure and, more recently, in residential construction.
While Haiti's population growth, currently around 1.7% p.a., is below the
average of low income countries, the GNP per capita of US$260 in 1979 remains
the lowest in the Western Hemisphere. Income distribution is markedly
unbalanced, malnutrition is widespread and 75% of the population live in
absolute poverty. Apart from limited bauxite, lignite and copper deposits,
Haiti is poorly endowed with natural resources. The problems caused by
limited available land are exacerbated by poor technology, causing severe
erosion and reducing the efficient utilization of land resources.
1.092     Agriculture, with a 40% share of GDP in 1979 (Annex 1, T-1) 2/,
remains the dominant activity in Haiti. Its growingt inability to keep pace
with domestic demand for food and the extreme fluctuations of agricultural
production caused the Government to put emphasis on improvements in agriculture
in its Development Plan (1977-81). Despite the take-off of the manufacturing
sector in the last decade (para. 1.04), its share in GDP, about 13% in 1979,
is still one of the lowest among the Latin American countries. The industrial
base is constrained by poor infrastructure, scarcity of managerial capabilities
andi skilled labor, limited market size and inappropriate credit facilities
(paras. 1.19 and 1.20). Nevertheless, the improvement of the political
climate during the last decade induced the recent industrial expansion. The
Government is now considering direct participation in major projects (para.
1.18) which may not be economically justified and would have significant
repercussions on the national debt. A clear and coherent industrial policy
still needs to be developed. The proposed project would be a useful vehicle
for continuing the dialogue between IDA and the Government on the orientation
of its policies, particularly those pertaining to the industrial and financial
sectors.
Employment
1.03      Haiti's economically active population of 2.7 million, increasing at
1.4% p.a. (1970-80), out of a population of about five million, demands the
creation of thousands of new productive jobs.  The current unemployment,
estimated at 15% of the labor force, is aggravated by widespread disguised
unemaployment, particularly in agriculture and the informal sector. While 73%
of the labor force is employed in the agriculture sector, only 8% is absorbed
1/   This section is based on several reports available in the Project
File (Annex 4), mainly Report No. 3079-HA, "Haiti: Economic Memorandum -
Recent Industrial Developments," of November 11, 1980.
2/   The figures on the sectoral structure of the economy are based on 1955
prices. No statistical data at current prices are available. Thus, the
figures are merely indicative and should be used cautiously.



in industry. In the manufacturing sector, employment increased at an annual
rate of 3% between 1971 and 1977, while the urban labor force increased at an
annual rate of 4%, well above the growth of the total active population and
above the rate of employment generation in the manufacturing sector. This
situation emphasizes the need for regional and infrastructure development
while creating employment, in particular in the industrial sector and improving
productivity of the agricultural sector. Although managerial capabilities and
skilled labor are in short supply, low wages have induced the expansion of
export-processing industries. Currently, the minimum daily wage is US$2.30,
the lowest among the assembly operations in Latin American countries; the
low wages result in high profits on investment, which are frequently in the
30-50% range.
B. The Manufacturing Sector
Growth and Structure
1.04      Manufacturing growth accelerated from an average real rate of 0.6%
p.a. during the 1950s and the 1960s to almost 7% during 1970-79 (Annex 1,
T-1). These growth estimates are based on an Index of Industrial Production
developed around a sample of manufacturing activities in existence in the late
1950s, and therefore do not capture many of the import-substituting industries
which started in the 1960s and virtually exclude all the export-processing
industries which started in the 1970s. With these subsectors taken into
account, it is estimated that industrial growth was around 14% during the
1970s. 1/ Major industries contributing to this growth were in the import
substituting group:  cement, wheat products, flour, clothing, shoes, beer
and sugar refining. In the assembly export group, textiles, electronics, toys
and sporting goods comprised the major industries. On the other hand, the
performance of the agroindustries has not been satisfactory, mainly attribu-
table to a decline in the production of cotton and textiles and a deficiency
of inputs from the agricultural sector.
1.05      The largest manufacturing subsectors, based on the Haitian Statistical
Institute's estimates of value added in manufacturing in 1976, are food and
clothing. Together they represent almost 48% of total value added. Including
other goods mostly produced to meet the basic needs of the population such as
beverages, textiles, leather, and footwear, this percentage increases to around
57%. Other subsectors representing smaller shares of value added include
machinery and equipment (10%), construction materials (around 5%), tobacco
(4%), and essential oils (about 3%). Wood products and furniture, paper and
printing, metal products and other activities represented the remaining 21% of
the total value added in that year. This sectoral structure is typical for a
country still at an incipient stage of industrialization.
1.06      Haiti's manufacturing sector is predominantly composed of small-scale
and informal enterprises. The average number of employees per enterprise
reporting to the social security system is around 19 (Annex 1, T-2). The con-
centration of enterprises also reflects the structure of the manufacturing
sector: In 1976, around 65% of industrial enterprises were concentrated in
food products, beverages, and clothing and footwear.
1/   IDB:  Opportunities for Industrial Investment in Haiti, May 1979.



- 3 -
1.07      Capacity utilization of industrial plants, averaging 63% in the
early 1970s, varies widely among the different subsectors. While monopolistic
industries, in part attributable to small domestic markets and in some cases
to high protection, show lowest capacity utilization, export-processing
industries tend to operate closer to full capacity. Recently, the flour mill
and cement plants have been operating at nearly full capacity because of a
growth in demand.
Manufactured Exports
1.08      Net manufactured exports 1/ experienced a remarkable increase of
12% p.a. in 1970 prices during 1970-77, from only US$11 million in 1970 to
more than US$54 million in 1977 (Annex 1, T-3). Export-processing industries,
wlhich in 1977 accounted for 42.3% of net manufactured exports, cover a wide
spectrum of products, but are concentrated in clothing (52%), electronic
components (26%) and sporting articles (16%). All these assembly industries
are labor-intensive and have created some 18,000 new jobs since 1971, compared
with 2,000 new jobs in modern industries producing for the local market.
Dtrect investment per job averaged US$2,800.- Low labor costs, proximity to
the US market and a receptive investment climate are the driving forces behind
the development of Haiti's export-processing industries.  However, their
growth, as well as that of overall industry, has been constrained by infra-
structure bottlenecks. US import restrictions on garments have also limited
the expansion of the clothing sector. Future development of the export-
processing industries will depend on identifying and tapping new markets, and
the ability to diversify the products exported. Simultaneously with the
further promotion of export-processing industries, the Government needs to
undertake improvements in infrastructure and to develop adequate agricultural
policies to facilitate the backward linkages of the export processing industries
(para. 1.21).
Industrial Policy
1.09      The Government's industrial policy, although not clearly defined,
has been implemented through a system of incentives (paras. 1.10-1.13) favoring
employment creation, export growth and spatial decentralization.  In addition,
the Government is supporting the development of technical assistance services
for the manufacturing sector (paras. 1.14-1.17), anci is planning to participate
act:ively in major industrial projects (para. 1.18). The Government is currently
corisidering an industrial policy for the Third Development Plan (1982-86) based
on the promotion of employment creating industry. The effectiveness of this
policy, however, could be affected in part by develcopments in infrastructure
and the agricultural sector (1.21).
1.10      The Investment Code.  The Investment Code, currently under revision,
consists of five decree laws passed between 1960 and 1977. Differentiated
fiscal incentives are granted to (a) enterprises manufacturing goods not being
produced in Haiti; (b) enterprises creating industrial linkages; (c) labor-
intensive, export-oriented enterprises using local raw materials; and (d) those
1/   Gross manufactured exports minus imported inputs for export-processing
industries.



- 4 -
located outside of Port-au-Prince. Eligible enterprises are exempted from
income tax for the first five years, taxed at a progressive rate during
the following five years, and fully taxed in the eleventh year.  Maximum tax
holidays are granted to pioneer industries (enterprises producing goods not
previously produced in Haiti), while enterprises coming at later stages in
the same field get lower incentives graded according to the saturation
degree of the domestic market. The income tax holiday period is longer for
new enterprises established in industrial parks (8 years full exemption, and
full taxation in the 14th year) and much longer for enterprises located
outside of Port-au-Prince (15 years full exemption and full taxation after
20 years). There is also a fiscal incentive associated with capital intensity
of the project, with property tax exemption periods increasing with the
investment size. Dividends are taxed in the hands of recipients at a flat
rate of 10%.
1.11      Tariff Protection.  Haiti's tariff structure is relatively flat and
has generally low rates based on specific duties which have predominated in
the past.  The ad valorem tariffs are not progressive according to the degree
of processing and range from zero to 30% on machinery, raw materials and
intermediate goods, and 30-55% on consumer goods. In addition, specific
duties are levied on a large number of items. Overall protection (defined as
import duties/total imports), however, declined from 22.4% in 1971 to 10.8% in
1976 mainly due to the increasing importance of duty-free imports and the
erosion of specific tariffs through inflation.
1.12      Most imports in Haiti are free from quantitative restrictions.
Quotas are limited to a few products:  preserves and jellies, preserved
meat, spaghetti, shoes valued at less than G35 (CIF basis), sugar and confec-
tionaries, paints and varnishes valued at more than G25,000 (CIF basis), and
steel bars and reinforcing bars. Some imports are the exclusive monopoly of
the Regie du Tabac et des Allumettes.
1.13      The generous application of the incentive system during the 1970s
has contributed to the growth of the manufacturing sector. However, the
system of incentives does not compensate for the institutional and physical
infrastructure deficiencies, which limit further industrialization. In addi-
tion, the protection of privileged firms from entry of new competition tends
to create monopolistic situations where established industries are not
motivated to improve quality or reduce prices.  The incentives system, giving
preferential treatment to firms exporting their total production discourages
the establishment of firms producing for both the domestic and export markets.
Traditional products such as crafts are excluded from investment incentives,
which are reserved for goods not previously manufactured in Haiti. Export
taxes on crafts represent a significant production disincentive. Also, there
are not enough incentives to firms using domestic resources as inputs. In
general, incentives made progressively on the basis of employment creation and
domestic value added could eliminate some of the deficiencies of the current
system. However, parallel to improvements in the incentive system, concen-
trated efforts are required to remove the constraints ta industrial development
(paras. 1.19 and 1.20).



-5-
rechnical Assistance Services
1.14      Besides the system of incentives and the promotion of specific
investment projects, the Government is supporting the development of technical
assistance services for the manufacturing sector.  Several of the institutions
involved, however, have not been effectively coorclinated and most of them are
at the initial stages of development.
1.15      The National Office for Investment Promotion (ONAPI), established
:Ln 1979 and still in the organization stage, is expected to be the focal point
i-or undertaking the Government's technical assistance program for the manufac-
turing sector. ONAPI's main functions would consist of extending technical
and specialized services to the industrial sector, including training programs,
seminars and assistance to entrepreneurs in preparing bankable projects.
ONAPI also has an important promotional role domestically and abroad for
investment opportunities and privileges in Haiti. ONAPI's Board of Directors
îs chaired by the Minister of Commerce and Industry and headed by a General
Director, but its final organization has not yet been fully determined. ONAPI
is considering three operations divisions dealing with international promotion,
industrial research and project studies, and extension services for small and
medium enterprises. Under the proposed project (para. 3.38), institutional
technical assistance would be provided to strengthen the organization and
capabilîties of ONAPI. Depending upon available resources from the Govern-
ment, ONAPI expects to substantially increase its professional staff and
operating budget for the next year.
1.16      The National Artisan Agency (ONA) was established in 1977 to serve
the needs of artisans and micro-enterprises, but il: is still an extremely weak
institution handicapped mainly by a lack of managerial and professional
capabilities. On the other hand, the National Institute for Professional
Training (INFP), established with UNDP and ILO assistance in 1977, is one of
thie best institutions offering vocational training. Its resources are gene-
rated from the recently introduced apprenticeship tax. IDA, under the Second
Education Project (Credit 770-HA), is working with INFP and the Haitian
authorities to expand the adult part-time and refresher program.  Working
a.Lmost as an in-house technical assistance group, the Division for Industrial
Services (GSI) of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Institution
(:IDAI) provides limited services to IDAI's own projects.
1.17      The National Institute for Administration and International Studies
(]-NAGHEI), part of the University of Haiti, mainly provides management train-
ing programs. Although this institute previously provided only university-
level training, recently it started, with Canadian and IDB assistance, a
part-time adult training program in basic management and accounting. In
addition to INAGHEI, there are some private management schools in Port-au-Prince;
ar important one of these is the Training Center for Business and Management
(CEGES), which offers university-level courses and seminars in commerce,
industry and business administration.
Government Industrial Projects
1.18      Deviating from the Five-Year Plan and its Investment Budget, the
Government has embarked on three relatively large projects: a sugar mill, a
fishing fleet venture and a vegetable oil plant, which were financed on



-6-
relatively hard terms. Moreover their economic justification is not clear.
The Government is now considering a second sugar mill, a cement plant and a
textile plant. IDA has already made known its views to the Government, but it
is not clear to what extent our observations will be taken into account by the
Government in deciding upon these and future industrial projects.
C. Prospects for Industrial Growth
1.19      The industrialization process in Haiti is still at an early stage.
The development of industry is limited by several factors, in particular by a
small domestic market, inadequate supply and quality of raw materials, limited
managerial capabilites and skilled labor, lack of adequate infrastructure,
credit constraints (Section II) and other institutional constraints.
1.20      Domestic demand is very limited, mainly due to the low purchasing
power of the majority of Haitians and to the thin industrial base which is
incapable of creating a reasonable level of demand for intermediate goods.
At the same time, growth in exports has slowed down in some subsectors,
particularly textiles and garments, because of the US quota system which,
despite its recent expansion, is still a limitation. On the supply side,
inadequate supply and quality of raw materials prevent interindustry linkages
and backward integration, while reducing the quality of finished goods.
There are also severe shortages of craftsmen, technical personnel, and
managerial and entrepreneurial talent. The lack of physical infrastructure,
outside of Port-au-Prince, such as serious power shortages, poor road conditions
and communication systems, and inadequate water supply, has contributed to the
concentration of industry in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area. Moreover,
availability and access to credit is a major problem confronting new and smaller
enterprises in Haiti. Except for those cases where substantial real property can
be offered as collateral, most local loans are in effect character loans deter-
mined by the reputation and record of the borrower, thus effectively screening
out small or newer firms. Finally, the weak institutional framework and the
inefficiency of government institutions have also inhibited further growth
of the industrial sector.
1.21      The main prospects for industrial growth depend upon the development
of labor-intensive export industries, which require the identification and
development of new markets.  It is also necessary to promote the growth and
rationalization of the agricultural sector to increase the supply and quality
of domestic inputs for industry. While in the long run the development of the
economy, particularly the industrial sector, will be determined by the physical
infrastructure which needs to be improved, in the short term industrial parks
may alleviate some of these shortcomings. A national program of industrial
parks, based on regional plans and future improvements in infrastructure,
needs to be given further consideration. In addition, the incentive system
needs to be revised (para. 1.13), and the administrative bottlenecks in the
support given industrial undertakings by the private and foreign sector should
be removed. Finally, technical assistance to some priority subsectors would
help to increase the availability of management capabilites and skilled labor.



- 7 -
The proposed project would assist the Government in reducing credit constraints
(Section II), making available term financing for the industrial sector and
developing an efficient credit scheme, and would strengthen and provide
technical assistance services. As mentioned in para. 1.02, the project would
also serve to expand the dialogue between IDA and the Government, in particular
regarding its industrial and financial policies (para. 4.07).
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A. Financial Institutions and Regulations
CGeneral
2.01      The monetary and financial policies of Hlaiti are established by
the Ministry of Finance and Economics Affairs in consultation with the Banque de
'La Republique d'Haiti (BRH). A law of June 26, 1980, gives the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Affairs additional authority over the financial system,
iincluding direct control of BRH, the banking sector and other financial
ïnstitutions. BRH, however, can still exert a stbong influence over the
monetary and credit policies, mainly through interest rate management. The
effectiveness of these policies is limited by the dual currency (dollar/gourde)
system and the small size and openness of the Haitian economy. Capital can
move freely in and out of Haiti under a fixed exchange rate of 5 gourdes per 1
US dollar, a rate which has not changed since 1919.
Central Bank
2.02      Until September 11, 1979, the Banque Nationale de la Republique
d'Haiti operated as both a central and a commercial bank. To eliminate
the conflict between these functions, the Government separated the commercial
banking operations, assigning them to the newly established Banque Nationale
du Credit (BNC). The central bank functions are reserved to the BRH, an
autonomous public institution with separate legal personality and financial
independence. BRH is responsible for issuing notes and currency, determining
interest rates and reserve requirements, managing foreign exchange reserves
and supervising financial institutions; it also acits as the bank of the
Government. BRH is still a weak institution, with controls and surveillance
of financial institutions practically non-existent. Banking applications
are handled by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs which grants
final authorization based on recommendations made by BRH and the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry. The June 26, 1980 law (para. 2.01) subordinating
B.RH to the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs may weaken supervision of
the financial system and lead to potential conflicts among the functions of
the monetary authorities. An overall revision of the legal framework related
to financial institutions will be included in the dialogue between IDA and the
Governnent.



-8-
Financial Institutions
2.03      In addition to BRH and BNC, there are nine banking institutions, 1/
eight private and one public, and one government-owned development finance
company (IDAI). There are also about 32 agencies of private insurance companies
(mostly foreign), four government-owned pension funds, approximately 50 active
"caisses populaires" (savings and loans associations) and one agricultural finance
office within the Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Develop-
ment.  A proposed private development finance company is still in the planning
stage, mainly because it appears to lack Government support. Most of the private
commercial banks, the majority of which are local branches of foreign banks,
were established in the seventies. The domestic banks, in comparison with the
foreign banks, are rather weak institutions. The commercial banks primarily
provide import-export financing, with about 94% of their total loan portfolio
concentrated in short-term operations. Term loans are usually close to
one-year maturity or are callable on demand, and therefore are basically of a
short-term nature. Commercial bank term lending is constrained by the diffi-
culty of any financial institutions, other than IDAI, to take chattel mortgages
and by the high cost of registering mortgages and other regulatory barriers.
2.04      The Royal Bank of Canada, the oldest of all the private and foreign
banks in Haiti, is also the largest with 36.3% of the private banks' total
assets of G887 million (Annex 2, T-1). The second group of banks consists
of Banque Nationale de Paris, First National Bank of Boston, and Bank of Nova
Scotia, which together own an additional 49.7%. Thus, four foreign banks
control 86% of all private bank assets. Two private Haitian banks--namely,
Banque Industrielle et Commerciale d'Haiti and Banque de l'Union Haitienne--
control only 3.5% of the private bank assets, while the rest (about 10%) is
accounted for by smaller foreign banks (Annex 2, T-1).
2.05      Of the two government-owned commercial banks, BNC is definitely
the larger, although exact portfolio data are not available since its assets
are still combined with BRH. The other public bank, Banque Populaire Haitienne
(BPH), is larger than the two Haitian-owned private banks combined and its
portfolio includes about 46% of term loans. However, BPH is in financial
difficulties and it is possible that its term portfolio represents past
roll-overs of long overdue and doubtful loans; to keep it in operation, BRH
reduced its reserve requirements. Due to its precarious financial position,
BPH is operating as a subsidiary of BNC.
2.06      The Agricultural and Industrial Development Institution.  IDAI, 2/
a government-owned entity established in 1961, is the only development finance
company in Haiti. Its five agencies throughout the country have total assets
of G70.6 million (US$14.1 million), equivalent to 8% of the total assets of
private banks. IDAI is primarily involved in equity investments which repre-
sent 58% of its assets. Its wholly owned subsidiary, Societe d'Equipement
National (SEN), owns several companies in the textile, oil, butter and
agriculture-related subsectors. On the other hand, about 25% of IDAI's
total assets are in the form of loans, mostly industrial, 66% of which are
affected by arrears. IDAI appears to be the only financial institution
entitled to secure term loans with chattel mortgages; however, its experience
1/   Excluding Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, which is in liquidation.
2/   Institut de Developpement Agricole et Industriel.



- 9 -
with these guarantees is unknown, given the lack of regulations designed for
that purpose. The resources of IDAI come mainly from government contributions
and term loans from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). IDAI's manage-
ment was recently changed and it is expected that its policies and procedures
will be reviewed.
IMonetary and Financial Policies
2.07      Given BRH's limitations in managing the money supply, mainly as a
result of the dual currency system, fixed exchange rates and smallness of
the economy (para. 2.01), it relies on the interest rate as the main instrument
of monetary and credit policy, trying to keep it in line with interest rates
abroad and the inflation rate. However, it has no control over the amount of
US dollars circulating in Haiti, which influences imoney supply. A new Banking
Law of November 17, 1980, determines the general regulations governing banking
institutions. The percentage of their short, medium and long-term operations,
liquidity and debt/equity ratios, among other regulations, are to be determined
by BRH. Reserve requirements (currently amounting to 34% on demand and
savings deposits, 10% on term deposits above one year and 20% below one year)
are seldom changed and are normally not used to affect the amount of banking
credit. The minimum capital requirements favor foreign banks, in particular
those already established in the country. The application of the Banking Law
may be hampered by the limited experience of BRH's Supervision Department and
by limitations, under the Law, regarding the provision of specific information
on bank operations.
2.08      Interest Rates and Financial Spreads.  In managing interest rates,
BRH periodically reviews the minimum and maximum rates allowed for financial
institutions to keep them in line with interest rates abroad and the inflation
rate. Currently, interest rates for lending in Haiti vary at the banks'
discretion within a 14-18% p.a. range. Savings accounts earn 6% p.a. and time
deposits below one year 10%-12% p.a. Interest rates for time deposits above
one year vary between 11% and 14% p.a. for deposits up to US$100,000, while
time deposits above US$100,000 earn 12-18% p.a. Gi.ven these rates and
the reserve requirements, it is estimated that the average spread of private
bank operations is around 4% p.a. In the opinion of local bankers, operations
providing at least 2% p.a. on the margin are attractive. These reasonable
spreads are the result of BRH's interest policies that allow and promote
competition among financial institutious.
2.09      Inflation.  During 1975-79, inflation averaged 10.6% p.a., while
during the last twelve months it was around 12%.  Despite these levels of
inflation and due to BRH's interest rate policies, current interest rates in
Haiti provide for positive real interest rates of up to 6% p.a. Given the
expected increases in inflation by 1981 over the 15% level, mainly due to some
shortages in foodstuff, real rates of interest could decline. Based on BRH's
policies, however, it is expected that nominal interest rates would be adjusted
accordingly.
2.10      Foreign Exchange Reserves.  A special feature of the monetary
system of Haiti is the seasonality of foreign exchange inflows which affect
the supply of money and the availability of foreign exchange. A large part of
foreign receipts depend on coffee exports and tourist expenditures; hence,
they increase from November to May, while payments tend to peak from August to



- 10 -
October due to annual inventory increases. This seasonality of payments and
receipts creates, in effect, foreign exchange rationing, especially during the
peak of payments, thereby creating administrative bottlenecks and cash flow
problems for the banking sector.
Table 2.01:  GDP, Savings and Credit a/
(Gourdes/million)
Percentage
Percentage    increase    Percentage
increase     in money      increase
Gross              in total    and quasi-    in total
Domestic    GDS      credit        money         credit
Savings     GDP      to GDP        to GDS        to GDS
Year b/     GDP         (GDS)        %          %           %              %
1975      3,973.5       250.8       6.3       5.9         26.0           66.5
1976      4,894.0       281.4       5.7       3.1         69.3           48.8
1977      5,543.2       339.2       6.1       3.9         46.6           53.5
1978      5,813.4       395.5       6.8       5.1         59.4           64.8
1979      6,370.4       234.0       3.7       4.4         83.8           99.5
Average      -            -         5.7       4.5         57.0           66.6
a/   Credit increases were obtained from total claims of Annex 2, Table 2.
_/   Fiscal year. 1/
Source:  BRH, IMF and mission estimates.
B. Performance of the Financial System
Intermediation
2.11      The level of real savings in Haiti is low and during the last five
years savings represented an average of 5.7% of GDP (Table 2.01). The public
sector generates little savings as growth of current revenues is still limited
by obsolete income tax and import duty legislation (which is being revised),
and by fluctuations in coffee export taxes. A small, high income group has
not made its savings available to the financial sector because, until late
1979, interest rates, which had not changed since 1974, did not encourage
savings. However, recent developments giving BRH greater flexibility in
adjusting interest rates are expected to encourage the growth of savings from
their current low point.
1/   In this section, years refers to the Haitian fiscal year, which runs
from October 1 to September 30.



- il -
2.12      During 1975-79, total credit increased to higher levels than the
monetization of domestie savings (Table 2.01), indicating that a significant
portion of credit increases were financed by foreign resources. Most of these
resources, however, were used by the Central Government and public institutions.
Sources of Finance
2.13      BRH, BNC, IDAI and Banque Populaire HaitWienne constitute the major
sources of funds in Haiti. In 1979 these institutions accounted for 59.1%
(Annex 2, T-2) of the total claims on the financial system, while the remaining
40.9% were in the hands of the private banking sector. The growth of these
assets at around 18.7% p.a. has been similar in both sectors. However,
Government-owned financial entities with 98% of total claims on the public
sector, are the major source of funds for the pubLic enterprises, which in
1979 held 43.4% of the total liabilities of the financial system (Annex 2,
r-2). Private banks also provide significant financial resaurces through
reserve: requirements to monetary authorities; in *L979 these amounted to 17.4%
of the claims of monetary authorities. On the other hand, private banks with
70.8% of claims on the private sector are the major source of funds for
private enterprises, which in 1979 held 56.6% of total claims of the financial
system. Nevertheless, the participation of public banking institutions,
mnainly BNC, in private credit financing is significant, around 29.2% in 1979.
C. Issues and Outlook
2.14      In summary, monetary authorities have succeeded in managing an
interest rate policy, which being close to market rates, promotes competition
of financial institutions and has helped, within the constraints of he small
Haitian economy, to sustain a minimum level of savings.  Neverthele  , there
is still a need for foreign resources to finance esconomic growth, particularly
the growth of the industrial sector. Medium- and long-term resources are
scarce while short-term lending is provided mainly to prime borrowers. Because
commercial credit is almost entirely short-term, and given the lack of statis-
tics, it has been difficult to quantify the demand for medium and long-term
credit. The Government, however, with the banking and industrial sector, is
satisfied that there is a substantial demand for such credit. This was also
confirmed by soundings made with the private sector during appraisal of the
project, and by   a report on the potential for a private development finance
company.
2.15      To continue fostering the growth of the undeveloped financial markets,
BRH should continue its policy of interest rates close to market rates while
facilitating the operations of the financial systenm.  Standard regulations
governing guarantees (i.e., collaterals and mortgages) should be developed.
The law creating FDI should facilitate the use of chattel mortgages for finan-
cial intermediaries participating in the proposed project. Also, BRH needs to
define the term structure of the portfolio, and liquidity and debt/equity
ratios for all financial institutions and revise regulations, particularly
those pertaining to medium- and long-term operations. It is expected that the
proposed project would contribute to encouraging financial intermediaries to
provide term lending to productive and efficient projects of the private
sector. Finally, BRH needs to strengthen its Sup,srvision Department consider-
ably to enable it to control the operation of the financial system and provide
some assistance to other financial institutions. Institutional technical
assistance for these purposes would be provided under the proposed project
(para. 3.37).



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Institutional Structure
Background
3.01      The proposed project represents IDA's first direct support for the
development of the Haitian industrial sector.  Starting in September 1978, IDA
explored the prospects for a private development bank in Haiti. However, in
order to permit a wider access to term financing, it was decided in May 1979
that the Government would establish a special fund in the Central Bank to
provide term loans and, on an optional basis and for smaller loans, guarantees
for medium and small industrial enterprises through eligible financial institu-
tions (para. 3.24). Pursuant to the Government's request, the project was
appraised in July and August 1980.
Project Objectives
3.02      The primary objective of the proposed project is to support the
Government's policy of promoting industrial development in Haiti, through
financing industrial operations and providing limited technical assistance.
The project would also provide an opportunity to exchange views with the
Government on the effectiveness of existing industrial and financial policies
and regulations, including possible measures to strengthen the financial
system and improve the allocation of resources. More specifically, the
project is designed to:
(a)  establish an effective mechanism to finance the private Haitian
industrial sector, particularly small and medium industrial
enterprises, through the provision of medium and long term loans;
(b)  assist BRH in strengthening its capabilities to supervise and
evaluate the performance of financial institutions; and
(c)  help to develop a technical assistance program for.small and medium
enterprises and to strengthen the institutional capabilities of
ONAPI to provide such assistance.
Institutional Structure
3.03      To accomplish these project objectives, a two-tier credit system
would be established comprising BRH as a second-tier institution and a network
of participating financial intermediaries, qualified by BRH. A special fund,
Fonds de Developpement Industriel (FDI), with separate resources and staff,
has been established within BRH to provide financing for industrial operations.
3.04      All financial institutions accredited by BRH, and whose loan port-
folios affected by arrears are below 25%, would be eligible to participate in
the FDI scheme. The intermediaries will be responsible for making and
administering all subloans to industrial beneficiaries for their respective
operations approved by FDI. FDI, mainly through BRH's Supervision Department,
will follow-up on the intermediaries' operations and would check on an ad-hoc
basis the performance of firms financed under the scheme.



- 13 -
B. The Industrial Development Fund
Operating Criteria
3.05      The FDI has been established in BRH in agreement with IDA, by a
I)ecree Law allowing it to enter into medium- and long-term discounting
operations and provide guarantees for smaller operations. FDI subject to
the control of BRH's Board of Directors is of indefinite duration, has a
separate staff and non-transferable permanent resources. Although FDI is
subject to the internal comptroller of BRH, it will also be audited annually
by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA.
3.06      FDI's lending activities will be conducted pursuant to its Statement
of Policies which, in agreement with IDA, has been approved by the Board of
Directors of BRH. FDI's Statement of Policies includes also the basic
procedures to be followed by IDF staff in performing its functions.
3.07      FDI will finance investment projects and operations of new or
existing Haitian-owned 1/ private enterprises engaged in handicrafts, manu-
facturing (including agroindustry), fishery, mining, tourism, transport and
industrial construction, as well as ancillary service enterprises. Only
viable enterprises and sound projects will be eligible for FDI financing,
which will cover the purchase, construction or renovation of equipment,
machinery and cargo vehicles, civil works and industrial buildings, as well
als working capital, preinvestment studies and technical assistance services.
3.08      To make available FDI term resources to a large number of firms and
individuals, the maximum FDI financing per beneficiary will initially be
limited to US$250,000. Repeater operations will be possible only if 50% of
previous subloans provided by FDI have been repaid, but at no time could the
total of outstanding FDI commitments to a beneficiary exceed US$250,000.
Subloans solely for working capital will be allowed on a limited basis
(para. 3.18).
3.09      To induce participating intermediaries to handle smaller loans, a
higher spread is provided for under the-scheme (para. 3.20). IDA would from
time to time review FDI resource usage among the different industrial sub-
sectors, including small and medium enterprises. 'he first such review would
be undertaken when FDI's commitments amount to one third of the IDA credit
portion for discount operations. In view of the need for substantial insti-
tutional technical assistance, project supervision would call for a large IDA
staff input, including frequent field visits. During project implementation,
and as dictated by experience in the Haitian environment, adjustments could be
introduced in FDI's operating criteria.
1/   Defined as enterprises whose equity is owned at least 51% by Haitian
citizens.



- 14 -
Management and Staff
3.10      The initial professional staff of FDI consists of the Director
and two professionals with financial, and administration/accounting backgrounds.
The Director of FDI, a lawyer with strong managerial experience on leave of
absence from IBRD, has been appointed, in agreement with IDA, by the Governor
of BRH in consultation with the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. FDI
staff would be supported by a consultant with economic and financial background
and experience in technical assistance programs for the industrial sector.
The consultant would assist the FDI Director, develop FDI staff and to the
extent possible help to design technical assistance programs for industrial
beneficiaries (paras. 3.31-3.34).
3.11      Specific procedures for FDI processing, review, approval, disburse-
ments and supervision of loans, outlined in FDI's Statement of Policies, are
being elaborated in the Operating Manual of FDI. The manual will provide for
all new credit applications to be approved by the FDI Director while during
implementation, subprojects requiring changes in subloans' terms and conditions,
would be referred to the BRH Board of Directors for decision. The Board would
also be informed of all projects approved or rejected by FDI.
3.12      To facilitate implementation of the project, a Project Advisory
Committee, chaired by the Governor of BRH, and including FDI's Director has
been established and would comprise representatives of the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of
Planning, ONAPI, the participating financial intermediaries and private
industry. The Project Advisory Committee would conduct its functions pursuant
to its by-laws drafted by BRH to be adopted not later than September 30, 1981.
The Committee will be instrumental in obtaining the cooperation of government
agencies and will examine overall industrial and credit policies and exchange
views about the technical assistance programs for the small and medium enter-
prises. It will meet at least once every twelve months or as required by the
chairman.
Financial Resources and Prospects
3.13      Resources:  FDI will be established on a sound financial basis, and
have separate accounting, auditing and financial reporting. Its initial resources,
to be allocated by the Government exclusively for FDI, would include: (a) the
US$6.0 million credit component of the proposed IDA credit, and (b) US$1.0 mil-
lion equivalent to be provided by the Government as counterpart funds. The
first payment of this contribution amounting to US$250,000 equivalent would be
a condition of credit effectiveness. The balance of this contribution would be
made available as requested by FDI, but not later than October 31, 1983. As
shown in table 3.1, the initial resources of FDI would amount to US$7.0
million, representing 70% of the total investments under the proposed project.
It is expected that the Government would repay and service the IDA credit,
which would be used to increase the permanent resources of FDI for industrial
lending and the financing of institutional technical assistance. The Government
will also finance until September 30, 1983 that part of FDI administrative



- 15 -
costs not met by its revenues. However, part of the consultant services would
be financed under the institutional technical assistance component (paras.
3.35-3.36); any unused balance of this component would also be added to FDI's
resources for relending. Finally, to ensure the liquidity of FDI, BRH would
provide up to US$1.0 million equivalent as bridge financing, if and when
required, to permit FDI disbursements to finance tLnanticipated demand of
subloans and before IDA funds for individual subprojects are released.
Table 3.1:  Sources of Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Total           Percentage
FDI:
GOH contribution                                       1.0                10%
IDA (Credit component only)                           6.0                 60%
7.0                70%
Einancial intermediaries and enterprises                    3.0                30%
Total investment                                           10.0               100%
Institutional technical assistance:  IDA                    1.0
Total Project Cost                                         11.0
3.14      Project costs include US$1.0 million equivalent to finance institu-
tional technical assistance for FDI, BRH's Supervision Department and ONAPI
(paras. 3.35-3.38). IDA authorized advances of up to US$375,000 under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), established for the proposed project, are
included (para. 4.01).  The remaining resources, amlounting to US$625,000,
would initially be distributed as follows: US$150,000 for ONAPI, US$250,000
for FDI, US$100,000 for the BRH's Supervision Department, and US$125,000
unallocated.
3.15      Projected Operations and Results.  FDI will operate as a revolving
ftnd, with all loan collections to be recycled into new loan disbursements.
Wîth initial resources of US$7.0 million (para. 3.13), FDI would disburse
annually an average of US$2.0 million during the first four years of oper-
ations. By the fourth year it is expected that FDI would secure additional
resources under similar conditions as those of the IDA credit. The average
arnual gross income would vary between 11% and 12% of average total assets,
and net income would reach 6% by 1984 (Annex 4, T-4). Guarantee operation
losses are estimated at 10% of the total guarantee portfolio, or 4% of the
total FDI portfolio; however, experience might show that such losses could be



- 16 -
lower. Nevertheless, FDI would initially keep an amount equivalent to 4 to 5
months of disbursements available in liquid resources, mainly as a reserve
against potential losses. It is also expected that 20% of FDI's net income
would be provided as grants to finance special technical assistance programs
geared ta the development of the industrial sector.
C. Financing of Subprojects
Types and Sizes of Subloans
3.16      Pursuant to its Policy Statement, FDI will finance only sound
private Haitian-owned industrial enterprises (para. 3.07). Because of
the newness of the proposed credit scheme, no list of individual subprojects
seeking FDI financing can be compiled at this time. However, since initially
FDI would largely finance expansion of existing enterprises, it is likely that
the type of subprojects financed would correspond to industry's main subsectors.
Thus, FDI financing is expected to go mainly to the food and beverage subsector,
followed by leather and clothing, textiles and construction.
3.17      Based on project objectives and given the smallness of the Haitian
economy, FDI's subloans will have a maximum limit of US$250,000 (para. 3.08).
To encourage financial intermediaries to provide financing to small and medium
enterprises, subloans are classified into three categories, each with a
specific ceiling (para. 3.21).
3.18      Responding ta the needs of small and medium enterprises, FDI will,
on a limited basis, make separate subloans for raw materials and inventory
stocks. In this case, the maximum amount per applicant will not exceed
US$45,000 equivalent. The maximum aggregate amount of separate working
capital financing with IDA funds will not exceed 30% of the initial FDI re-
sources available for lending operations (around US$2.1 million).  Also, the
same 30% limit of working capital financing will apply to projects involving
both working capital and fixed asset financing. Finally, the preparation of
preinvestment studies and technical assistance services associated with invest-
ment projects or for improving specific firm operations could also be financed
under the scheme.
Lending Terms
3.19      FDI financing could be available for up to 10 years (but in excep-
tional cases could reach 15 years), including up to three years of grace for
principal repayment, although the average term is expected to be about six
years. The actual maturity and the grace period will depend on the nature of
subprojects and the cash flow of the borrowing enterprise. In case of separate
subloans for working capital (raw materials and inventory stocks), or technical
assistance contracts, the repayment period could be for up to two years, includ-
ing up to six months of grace.



- 17 -
3.20      To encourage financial intermediaries to finance small and medium
operations, FDI will allow them a higher interest spread for handling smaller
loans. However, to promote competition and reflect market conditions, the
interest spread for intermediaries is expressed as a fractional percentageof
the interest rate charged to the beneficiaries which is subject to BRH's
interest rate policy (para 2.08).
3 21      FDI will finance a maximum of 70-90% of the intermediaries' loans,
depending on the category of the FDI subloan, with the highest percentage for
smaller subloans.  Following the above criteria, the maximum amounts and percent-
ages of FDI financing and interest spreads for intermediaries are as follows:
Maximum percentage,
Amount to be       of intermediaries'        Financial
Category of         discounted    loans to be  d.iscounted   Intermediary
Discount Operations       by FDI                by FDI                 Spread
I        Up to US$ 50,000               90%             1/3 of interest
charged to ulti-
mate beneficiary.
From   US$50,000
II        to    US$150,000               80%             1/4 of interest
charged to ulti-
mate beneficiary.
From  US$150,000
III        to    US$250,000                70%            1/6 of interest
charged to ulti-
mate beneficiary.
3.22      Intermediaries receiving the above interest spreads are expected
tco service and repay all subloans financed by FDI, except for the portion of
their defaulted guaranteed subloans (para. 3.24). All FDI subloans will be
dEnominated in gourdes; the Government has agreed to assume the exchange risk
related to the proposed credit.
3.23      Interest rates charged by financial intermediaries are subject to
the limits established by BRH for commercial banks, which are periodically
reviewed to reflect market conditions. Currently, BRH has established a
minimum and a maximum lending rate, 14% and 18% p.a., respectively. Thus the
interest rate to final beneficiaries would be within these limits. The actual
rate paid by final beneficiaries, less the intermediary's percentage spread,
will determine the interest rates charged by FDI to the intermediaries. Thus
the FDI rates, to encourage lending to small and medium enterprises, will vary
for individual subloans, depending on the interest rate paid by the beneficiary.
BRH's interest rates would be reviewed by IDA from time to time and modified
by agreement between IDA and BRH as necessary to reflect market conditions
and inflationary trends. In any event such a review would also be made
simultaneously with the review of FDI resource usage (para. 3.09). Interest
rates are now positive in real terms (para. 2.09) and although inflation may
increase to about 15% in 1981, they are expected to remain positive over the
4-year disbursement period of the IDA credit.



- 18 -
Terms and Limits of Guarantees
3.24      To encourage financial intermediaries to provide medium and long
term lending to small and medium enterprises, FDI will provide guarantees at
the request of financial intermediaries simultaneously with the specific FDI
subloans. Guarantee operations are limited only to the first two categories
of discount operations (para. 3.21). However, guarantee coverage is limited
to a portion of the principal discounted and outstanding with FDI. Financial
intermediaries will pay FDI a guarantee fee, not to be transferable to the
borrowing enterprise, simultaneously with the amortization payments of the FDI
subloan. Again, to encourage financial intermediaries to provide financing to
smaller enterprises, greater coverage will be given to smaller loans. The
maximum guarantee coverage and fee are as follows:
Category
of         Amount to             Maximum
Discount    be Discounted           Guarantee                      Guarantee
Operations       by FDIt              Coverage                         Fee
I   Up to US$50,000      Up to 75% of principal       1/8 of interest charged
discounted by FDI           to ultimate beneficiary
From US$50,000
Il   To    US$150,000    Up to 60% of principal        1/8 of interest charged
discounted by FDI           to ultimate beneficiary
From US$150,000
III   To   US$250,000      Not available
3.25      To keep the portfolio risk assumed by FDI to an acceptable level,
the maximum amount of guarantees to be provided by FDI is limited to 40%
of FDI's total financial assets (cash and subloan portfolio). In addition,
to safeguard FDI's liquidity, its management will maintain liquid resources
for doubtful guarantee operations of up to 25% of the outstanding guarantee
portfolio. As experience is gained, this percentage may be lowered if justified
by lower actual loss records. The FDI Director will closely monitor the
guarantee portfolio to ensure that losses are kept to a minimum.
3.26      Applications for guarantee operations will be made simultaneously
with discount requests. FDI's approval will be based on the eligibility
criteria and risk assessment. Major eligibility criteria for guarantee
operations are that they:
(a) involve ultimate beneficiaries with debt/equity ratios below 3:1
and an estimated debt service coverage during the discount amorti-
zation period of at least 2:1;



- 19 -
(b`i involve ultimate beneficiaries that do not hold any overdue
financial obligations;
(c)  do not entail part or full refinancing operations; and
(d)  limit the total exposure of FDI with respect to guarantees to
the same ultimate beneficiary (regardless of the total outstanding
loans to the same beneficiary (para. 3.08)), to US$90,000.
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
3.27      Subprojects financed by FDI might vary in complexity and size.
However, considering the size of FD1 subloans and the limited project appraisal
capabilities of financial institutions, simplified appraisal procedures are
being established. Financial intermediaries, in cooperation with final
beneficiaries, will be responsible for preparing simple subproject appraisals.
FDI will review and approve all discount and guarantee applications, but the
scope of this review will vary according to the amount of its commitment.  In
general, applications submitted by intermediaries will include a summary
description of the project and its financing needs, information to verify the
eligibility criteria for loan discounts, and guarantees and to assess the risk
cf eventual guarantees. Category III project appraisals will include FDI's
analysis of their economic benefits. The standard format also includes the
list of goods to be financed under FDI resources.
3.28      Financial intermediaries will be responsible for supervising firms
receiving FDI funds and for maintaining adequate records that indicate the
progress of subprojects. The intermediaries' supervisory responsibilities
will be clearly specified in the participation agreements which intermediaries
will sign with BRH.  BRH's Supervision Department will closely cooperate
with FDI staff in exchanging information regarding financial intermediaries
and will provide it with periodic evaluation reports of the intermediaries.
Particular attention will be given to the operations financed by the FDI,
especially the guaranteed operations. Nevertheless, when required, FDI staff
could seek special information from intermediaries, taking care not to dupli-
cate the functions of BRH's Supervision Department.
Eligible Financial Intermediaries
2.29      All commercial and development banks legally established and
operating in Haiti might be eligible to participate in the FDI discount
and guarantee facility. An eligible institution, however, has to meet BRH's
eligibility criteria, which initially include a maximum of 25% of the
loan portfolio affected by arrears. A participation agreement to ensure
compliance with project objectives and to protect FDI's resources will
be signed by financial institutions authorized to operate with FDI. This
participation agreement will provide, among other points, that the finan-
cial intermediaries will (a) comply with project objectives and regulations;



- 20 -
(b) supervise projects to ensure adequate progress and, especially in case of
guarantees, loans repayment; (c) adhere to terms for lending and repaynent of
loans; (d) periodically report and maintain adequate records on IDA financed
projects; and (e) provide FDI and IDA with such information as they may
reasonably request. Receipt by IDA of a copy of a satisfactory participation
agreement between BRH and at least two financial intermediaries would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
3.30      Four private banks that could become eligible expressed an interest
in participating in the project. Of the remaining four private banks, two are
almost wholesale banks and two are not likely to meet the eligibility criteria.
In addition, the Government-owned institutions, BNC and IDAI, face liquidity
constraints, have substantial doubtful accounts in their portfolios and need
to improve their organization and management; therefore, it is likely that
these institutions might not meet BRH's eligibility criteria. On the other
hand, IDAI has currently available resources from other sources and BNC would
require additional internal liquid resources to be able to finance part of the
loans that could be discounted by FDI. Nevertheless, interested public
financial institutions not meeting the eligibility criteria, will need
to prepare and implement a program, acceptable to FDI and IDA, to improve
their management, organization and financial conditions. Such a program would
show how the institution would reduce its portfolio affected by arrears to 25%
within one year (during which it could provisionally participate in the
discount facility only) and around 10% at the end of the third year and
thereafter.
D. Technical Assistance
Assistance to Ultimate Beneficiaries
3.31      FDI will promote the development by qualified agencies and/or
consultants of technical assistance programs for eligible small and medium
enterprises. For this purpose, FDI would in due course channel up to 20% of
its net profits on a grant basis to help finance such programs. The main
purpose of the technical assistance services is to assist small entrepreneurs
in obtaining access to FDI's credit through financial intermediaries and to
facilitate the development and improvement of Haitian enterprises, particularly
those in the priority subsectors.
3.32      BRH's Board of Directors, in agreement with IDA, would set policies
for coordinating and financing technical assistance programs from FDI income
and would consider and approve, after hearing the opinion of the Project Advisory
Committee, specific proposals for such programs to be implemented by qualified
agencies and/or consultants. Administration of the resources for technical
assistance programs would also be the responsibility of FDI. This task would
be assigned to an FDI professional, assisted by the consultant, who would be
responsible for developing specific technical assistance proposals for the BRH
Board of Directors and would coordinate with other donors of technical assist-
ance. Proposals approved and financed by FDI would be executed by the entity
concerned under a simple contractual arrangement with FDI.



- 21 -
3.33      During the first two years of project implementation, the FDI
technical assistance programs would mainly be developed and implemented
by ONAPI, in agreement with FDI and IDA. The financing needs of these pro-
grams would be mainly covered by budgetary appropriations from the Governnent
to ONAPI, but some consultant services to reinforce ONAPI's technical capa-
bilities would be needed (para. 3.38). The signing of the first technical
cooperative agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between ONAPI and FDI would
be a condition of disbursements to ONAPI. It is expected that ONAPI's initial
programs would be oriented toward assisting small entrepreneurs in preparing
and submitting credit applications to local financial institutions. Programs
for basic training in general management areas suclh as finance, accounting,
marketing, production control and planning would also be encouraged. Some
specialized consulting services would also be provided for specific enter-
prises in priority sectors. A minimum professional staff would be made
available by ONAPI to develop this program.
3.34      In addition to the general programs of t.echnical assistance,
individual eligible enterprises could obtain subloans under the project
for direct contracting of consultant services. Although this is expected to
account for only a small portion of credit demand, these subloans would permit
industrial enterprises to finance technological and/or management improvements
affecting their productivity.
Institutional Technical Assistance
3.35      The proposed project includes US$1.0 million equivalent of technical
assistance for FDI, BRH's Supervision Department and ONAPI, including the
US$375,000 authorized under the PPF established for the proposed project
(para. 4.01). An amount of US$125,000 has not been allocated and is held in
reserve for technical assistance needs identified in the course of project
execution. Excluding the unallocated amount, 84 man/months of consulting
services are included in the project, at an average all inclusive cost of
US$6,000 per man/month. This institutional assistance would help to implement
the project by strengthening the capabilities of tlhe institutions responsible
for its implementation. All consultants and contracts would have to be
acceptable to IDA.
3.36      FDI.  Consulting services to assist FDI staff would be financed
under the project, as professional staff with the necessary qualifications are
difficult to find in Haiti. Initially, a consultant, with economic and financial
background would assist FDI staff in project evaluation and review and in the
supervision of beneficiaries and, occasionally, financial intermediaries.
Short-term consultants as required for project implementation could also be
financed under the project. The terms of reference of the consultants to be
hired by FDI would have to be acceptable to IDA. A total amount of US$250,000
equivalent has been allocated to cover the full cost of consultant services.
3.37      BRH's Supervision Department.  FDI will seek the cooperation of BRH's
Department of Supervision of Financial Institutions for the determination
of the financial condition of financial intermediaries and for the overall
supervision of these institutions. However, the design of the systematic



- 22 -
control of the financial system, presently almost non-existent, and the
development of BRH's Supervision Department staff, would require consultant
services, some training expenditures and some office equipment. IMF has
recently appointed an experienced Banking Examiner as a consultant, who
might be partly financed under the proposed project, to develop a detailed
program of technical assistance for BRH's Supervision Department and as
required by the BRH's Governor to make recommendations regarding the examina-
tion of financial intermediaries to determine the eligibility, the supervisory
role of BRH relating to the proposed project, and the internal control and
auditing of FDI's operations. In principle, US$100,000 equivalent has initially
been allocated to finance technical assistance to BRH's Supervision Department.
The terms of reference of additional consultants for BRH's Supervision Depart-
ment to be financed under the project would have to be acceptable to IDA.
3.38      ONAPI.  Because of the limited experience of ONAPI's staff, consul-
tant services are also needed for the development of the initial program of
technical assistance to ultimate beneficiaries, a review of the organization
of ONAPI and the development of its technical assistance policies. ONAPI has
engaged a local consultant acceptable to IDA for a four-month period, to
undertake these tasks. The proposed IDA credit includes US$150,000 equivalent
to finance ONAPI's consultant needs, with the amount to be reviewed when
ONAPI's local consultant presentshis findings around April 1981.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit Administration
Amount and Terms
4.01      The proposed credit of US$7.0 million, consists of a US$6.0 million
industrial credit component and US$1.0 million for technical assistance which
includes advances of up to US$375,000 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
made available for the proposed project. 1/ The technical assistance component
aims to strengthen ONAPI and BRH's Supervision Department and to establish
and develop FDI's organization and staff (paras. 3.35-3.48). Any unused
technical assistance allocations would be transferred to FDI to be used for
industrial lending. The industrial credit component of US$6.0 million would
be allocated by the Government as part of FDI's permanent resources.
4.02      Terms and Limits of Subloans.  Proceeds of the IDA credit would be
onlent (in Gourdes) to intermediaries for relending as subloans, normally with
maturities ranging from one to ten years. Subloans would carry interest rates
within the range established by BRH for commercial banks (currently between
14% and 18%) and would be periodically reviewed by BRH and IDA. Participating
financial intermediaries will earn a spread of one-third, one-fourth or
one-sixth of the interest charged to the ultimate beneficiary, depending on
1/   US$200,000 of the PPF advance has been committed to the consulting firm
developing FDI's Policies and Procedures; the balance can be used to
finance consultant services for ONAPI and BRH, pending effectiveness of
the proposed audit.



- 23 -
the subloan size. FDI's gross spread of about 12% under current interest
rates will be used to cover administrative expenses, after the first two years
of FDI's operations, to increase FDI's resources for industrial financing,
cover eventual losses of guarantee operations and finance technical assistance
programs for medium and small enterprises. The maximum FDI subloan will be
US$250,000 equivalent. The first four operations of each financial intermediary
would require IDA's approval. In these cases FDI would submit to IDA for
approval a copy of the review of the standard appraisal formats (para. 3.27).
After these first few subloans to be approved on a case by case basis, FDI's
Director would request IDA authorization of subprojects in minimum batches
involving financing of US$200,000 equivalent. Each authorization request
would consist of a list of subprojects containîng their industrial classifica-
tion, brief description, the amount of the subloans, the expenditures to be
financed, the terms of the subloans, the name of the financial intermediary
granting the subloans and the dates of submission of the discount application
by the financial intermediary to FDI. The final date for submission of requests
for financing of subprojects under the IDA credit. would be January 31, 1985.
4.03      Procurement.  FDI and participating intermediaries would satisfy
themselves that the procurement items are suitable for the respective invest-
ment projects and reasonably priced, and that the! beneficiaries have examined
the main sources of supply and are purchasing from the most advantageous source.
Major items would normally be procured on the basis of several quotations, in
accordance with standard practice for DFC-type projects. Procurement of
consultant and training services would be open to international recruitment
and could be fully financed by the credit, provided the consultants, their
terms of reference and the contract conditions have been approved by IDA.
Disbursements
4.04       IDA would reimburse FDI 86% of its disbursements for approved
subloans, against fully documented withdrawal applications. Based on this
reimbursement percentage, it is expected that IDh funds would finance, on
average, the foreign exchange costs of individual subprojects estimated at
60-65%. IDA would reimburse FDI for expenditures made not more than 90 days
prior to submission of the discount application by the financial intermediary
to FDI. IDA funds would be disbursed against ful.1 documentation, to cover
100% of total expenditures for institutional technical assistance. The
closing date for disbursements would be June 30, 1985 (Annex 3, T-2).
4.05      To record rediscount operations, FDI would establish special
project accounts for each participating intermediary. FDI and financial
intermediaries would make satisfactory arrangements for a full audit of their
accounts by reputable auditors following accounting principles acceptable to
IDA. However, FDI is also subject to review by the comptroller of BRH.



- 24 -
B. Benefits and Risks
4.06      The proposed project would enhance the development of an expanded
and more efficient industrial sector, including the generation of employment
opportunities through the provision of medium and long term funds, currently
very scarce in Haiti, and technical assistance. The project's built-in
incentives would create a bias toward medium and small enterprises, and hence
make funds accessible to them and contribute to their development.  It is
expected that the IDA credit would help financing at least 2,000 jobs in
incremental direct employment, since initially most subprojects may be
expansions.  The project would also reinforce BRH's management of the interest              a
rate policy, strengthen BRH's capabilities to evaluate the performance of
financial intermediaries, and strengthen the professional capabilities of
ONAPI in providing technical assistance to small and medium enterprises.  The
project would be a useful vehicle to intensify the dialogue between IDA and
the C-overnment, on industrial and financial policies. The project would also
provide a means to build up the capabilities of public financial institutions,
since they would be expected to follow a program acceptable to IDA (para. 3.30)
in order to become eligible for FDI rediscount operations.
4.07      The project is in many respects a pilot project and the risks
inherent in creating a new facility in Haiti are relatively high, especially
risks related to FDI's management and staffing, and the necessary promotion
required at the outset.  This is particularly true in the case of Haiti, where
skilled professionals are in short supply. In addition, financial institutions
have no experience in this type of lending and despite built-in incentives
they may not put a strong effort into promoting the scheme, thus slowing down
project implementation.  Also, BRH's capabilities for supervision of the
banking community are still being developed and this may cause delays in
project implementation. However, these risks should be considerably reduced
by (a) the appointment of the competent FDI Director; (b) close contact
between FDI and IDA during project implementation; and (c) IMF's current
involvement in building up BRH's overall capabilities to undertake its super-
visory role. The need to keep project appraisals very simple may constitute
some additional risk insofar as ensuring that only viable and economically
beneficial projects are financed. However, FDI's review function should
increasingly reduce this risk and its effect on subloan repayments and potential
guarantee losses. Although the exposure of total guarantees has been limited
(para. 3.25), the guarantee facility involves additional risks which are
undertaken to promote loans to small and new enterprises. The limited extension
services to be provided for small and medium enterprises could enhance the
success of some of these enterprises and thus reduce the riskiness of such
operations.



- 25 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During credit negotiations, agreements were reached or confirmed
on the following:
(a) With the Government of Haiti and BRH, on:
(i)  the terms, conditions, and procedures for making available
the proceeds of the IDA credit to FDI as part of its Permanent
resources (para. 3.13), interest rates on subloans (paras. 3.21
*                       and 3.23), retention of the foreign exchange risk by the
Government (para. 3.22), subproject approval requirements
(para. 4.02), maximum guarantee coverage (paras. 3.24-3.26),
and commitment and disbursement (para. 4.04);
(ii) the provision of US$1.0 million equivalent as counterpart funds,
the first payment of which would be made prior to credit effec-
tiveness and the remaining balance aLs requested by FDI but not
later than October 31, 1983 (para. 3.13); and the financing by
the Government of FDI's administrative costs until September 30,
1983 (para. 3.13);
(iii) the Decree Law of the Government authorizing the establishment
of FDI in BRH, allowing it to operate in accordance with its
Statement of Policies (paras. 2.15 and 3.05);
(iv) the first technical assistance program to be prepared and
implemented by ONAPI and the content of the technical coopera-
tive agreement to be signed between ONAPI and FDI and to be
submitted to IDA for its consideratiLon and agreement after the
consultant currently reviewing ONAP]E's organization completes
his findings around April 1981 (para. 3.33); and
(v)  the appointment of its members and formal adoption of the
Project Advisory Committee's by-laws, in a form and substance
acceptable to IDA not later than September 30, 1981 (para. 3.12).
(b)  With BRH, on:
(i)  the content and status of the Decree Law establishing FDI,
in BRH, with proper organization,staffing (paras. 3.05, 3.10),
financial resources and separate accounting and auditing
(paras. .3.05 and 3.13);
(ii) FDI's Statement of Policies (para. 3.06), which includes
basic procedures for FDI operations, to be expanded in its
Operations Manual,(para. 3.11);
(iii)  the basic content of the draft agreement between BRH and
the participating financial intermediaries (para. 3.29);



- 26 -
(iv) the eligibility criteria for partîcipating financial interme-
diaries (paras. 3.29 and 3.30), and assistance to strengthen
the capabilities of BRH's Department of Supervision of Financial
Institutions (para. 3.37);
(v) the assurance to provide up to $1.0 million equivalent in bridge
financing to ensure satisfactory subloan disbursements by FDI
to the participating financial intermediaries (para. 3.13);
and
(vi) the review of FDI resource usage among the different industrial
subsectors, including small and medium enterprises (para. 3.09).
The first such review would be undertaken when FDI's commit-
ments amount to one-third of the IDA credit.
5.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(a) payment by the Government of the first portion of the counter-
part funds amounting to US$250,000 equivalent to complement
resources of the proposed credit (3.13).
(b) signing of a participating agreement, in a form and substance
satisfactory to IDA, between FDI and at least two participating
financial intermediaries (para. 3.29).
5.03      A condition of disbursements to ONAPI is:
Signing of the first technical cooperative agreement, in a form
and substance satisfactory to IDA, between ONAPI and FDI
(para. 3.33).
Recommendation
5.04      With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.0 million equivalent.



HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product by Sector, 1970-79
(million of 1955 gourdes)
Average Annual
1970        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979       GDP          Growth
1960-70 1970-79
Agriculture                          698.9       809.9       849.3       823.7       887.7        869.9       40    -0.7        2.5
Mining and Quarrying                  28.6        23.6        32.2        30.9         28.7        28.7        1      5.0       0.0
Manufacturing                        163.8       206.3       250.7       268.4       269.5        291.1       13      0.6       6.6
Construction                          36.8        82.4        92.2        98.2       110.3        119.1        6      1.8      13.9    1
Public Utilities                      21.6        39.1        48.3        49.9        46.6         47.0        2      3.9       9.0   !â
Transport and Communications          56.8        49.2        55.1        68.3        80.0         85.0        4      0.0       4.6
Commerce                             164.1       193.0       223.5       227.6       238.4        245.5       il    -0.6        4.6
Banking and Insurance                  7.5        12.3        15.2        17.0         17.4        17.0        1    -4.2        9.5
Housing                              156.8       169.8       173.0       176.0        180.0       182.0        8      1.6       1.7
Government                           122.2       148.8       142.1       145.2        150.0       155.0        7      2.2       2.7
Persona! Services                    103.6       i23.9       132.8       135.0       142.1        147.0        7      1.8       4.0
GDP at market prices               1,560.7    1,858.1    2,014.4    2,040.3    2,148.8    2,187.3            100      0.2       3.8
Source:  IBRD Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti, 1978, Institut Haitien de Statistique, and
IBRD Haiti Economic Memorandum, February 17, 1981.
IF



HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Number of Enterprises, Employmenta/ and
Payrolls by Industrial Activity, 1976
Average.Annual
Number of              Location                             Payroll             Wage/
Enterprises   %    Port-au  Other   Number of    %           (G'000)      %      Worker
Prince  Locat-  Employees                                  (G'000)
ions
Food products                        277       27.9    147      130      4,476      24.0      14,688      23.7    3.28
Beverages                            240       24.2     90      150       1,206      6.5       4,009       6.5    3.32
Tobacco                                1        0.1      1        0         206       1.1      2,054       3.3    9.97             1
Textiles                              20        2.0     15        5       1,636      8.8       3,876       6.2    2.37
Clothing and footwear                126       12.7    124        2      3,621      19.4       9,748      15.7    2.69
Wood and cork
excl. furniture                       3       0.3       3        0          25      0.1          84       0.1    3.36
Furniture                             41        4.2     30       il         247       1.3        616       1.0    2.49
Paper and printing                    12       12.2     il        1         126      0.7         526       0.8    4.17
Leather excl. manufacturers           17        1.7     16        1       1,308      7.0       3,982       6.4    3.04
Chemicals                             32        3.2     15       17         649      3.5       1,661       2.7    2.56
Non-metallic minerals                 30        3.0     28        2         780      4.2       4,782       7.7    6.13
Metal products excl. machinery        23        2.3     22        1         413      2.2       1,683       2.7    4.08
Engineering products                  26        2.6     26        0      1,190       6.4       5,355       8.6    4.50
Transport material                    52        5.3     46        6         423      2.3       2,176       3.5    5.14
Others                                92        9.3.     -        -      2,339      12.5       6,809      11.1    2.91
Total                              992     100.0    574      326      18,645    100.0       62,049    100.0       3.3
Source: IBRD:  Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti, 1978.  OFAli4A.
a/ Covers only insured labor force as recorded by OFATMA.



HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Manufactured Exports
(US millions)
Average Annual
Growth Rate Z
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976        1977      1970-77
Wheat flour                     0.27           -          -          -      0.25        0.17          -          -       -
Wheat by-products                   -          -      0.27       0.03       0.67        0.79       0.76
Cement                              -         -       0.01           -          -      0.06        2.43       3.15       -
Small Industries and
Handicrafts                   6.71       4.60       6.33       9.07       9.88       16.10      13.36      12.85    9.7
Others                           1.27      2.35        1.40      2.45        3.33       4.12       4.03      15.29   42.7
Export Processing
Industries                    6.80      12.00      19.60      32.08      48.14      60.28       81.36      84.28   43.3
Imported Input for Export
processing Industries        (4.00)   (10.20)   (16.70)   (22.80)   (35.50)   (44.30)   (58.90)   (61.30)
Total (Gross)              15.05      18.95      27.61      43.60      62.27      81.52    101.95    115.57         33
Total (Net)                11.05       8.75      10.91      20.80      26.77      37.22      43.05       54.27   25.5
Value Added by Export
Processing Industries          2.8        1.8        2.9        9.3       12.6      16.00       22.46      23.00   35.1
% of Export Industries
(Net)                         25.3       20.6       26.6       44.6       47.1       43.0        52.2       42.3
Source:  IBRD Economic Memorandum on Haiti, February 17, 1981.



HAITI
STAFF 4PPRAISAL REPORT
IRIDUSBTIAL. CBBD1T PRDJBCT
Balance Sheete of Fi.nDcial Inntit.tions a/
Septaber, 1979
(Go.rden/Tho...nd.)
8 nque
Bacque de   Industrielle         Banque      First National    Firet National                         Th. Bank      The Roy.l Bank    All Eight ù/        Banqne
Benque Coceorclale   l'union   et Co.acerciale       Nation.le        Bank cf            Bank cf         First National    cf Nova              cf            Pcioate          Populaire
Attettî                       d'8aiti          Raitinenn   d'Haiti. S.A.       de Pacte         Bouton            Chicaco            c   Bank         Scotia           Canada           bank;           haitienna           IDA3
Foceign ecachengn .                       _                   112.0             9.1         2,532.1           23.6                43.9              131.8           543.4           330.0          3.725.9               109.3
Cauh                                      Iu                1,088.3            24.1         1,040.7       6,234.4                452.5              660.4        1,800.5          2,085.9          13,386.8              528.5       13,277.5
BR'                                                         2,652.3           521.1        27,443.0      36,649.8             5,188.7            22,087.0       22,775.9         78,166.6        195,484.4               728.5        1,D00.0
Other boni. bank deponire                 L                   709.6              -          1,205.6            -                   -                  -               -                -            1.915.2                -          3,781.2
Foreig. benk depeeitt                     1                 1,248.4            84.8           555.1                             263.2                 _               _             221.4          2,372.9            10,423.0
Lelttan uf credit                         Q                 5.889.7              -        30.425.7             -                   -                  --40.147.0                                  76.462.4
Lnoas   Short ttrR                                         11V3148d            24.9        48.463.7     112,005,2             7.975.2           48.077.8       100.79.2 c/    40L.273.8          529,930.2            24 973.4       16.079.9
Public neottr                     I                 8,181.2              -              -        22,500.0                 -                  -               -                -           30,681.2                                -
Privatcnecior                     D                 3,133.4            24.9       48,463.7       89.505.2             7,975.2           48,077.6       100.795.2 ci    201.273.8         499,249.0            24.973.4       16.079.9
n_edma-teerm privte eecote             A                   913.7              -         27,256.4            -                 719.0              792.7         1,730.7             -           31,412.5             7,606.7
o08.t.een poivate -ector               T                   613.8         1.191.6         1,614.2            -                                      -              -                -            3,419.6            13,390.4        1 501.7
*Puouiocna for bo- es                     1                     -               -               -                                  -                  -               -                -                -                  -        (011.672.5)
Inonainent.                               O                   297.9         3,818.9             -              -              1,090.5               427.3             -               _            5,634.6               503.1       41,239.1 d/
oln eltate                               N                     -               _               _                               365.7               583.4            _                _               949.1            1,411.9        5,D92.0
0ther                                                         235.0           243.9        11.105.2       6.529.5               543.2             3.699.0             -               -           22,355.8            12.794.9          323.5
Total As.et.                                               25.075.3         5.918.3       151.641.7     161.442.5            16.642.0           76.459.2       127.645.6        322.224.6        887.049.2            72.469.8       70.622.3
Li.bilitie,
Foreign bank.                             In                    _               _          11,542.2      10,186.0             3,750.0             4,442.9       14,290.5         28,146.1         72,375.7               202.3
Govermment depocite                                             _                                         7.500.0                                                                                  7.500.00
2o.oîvateertînldepontt                                     16 229.8           88420        9.9 18.3     139.749 .1           20275              66.765.9        71.959.3         64 64D7         65648.3               4              2.913.8 eJ
2-Dnelaad                                 L                 3,383.6           352.2       23,1415.4      35,889.2             4.943.51,1.                        2,9.             460.            5.5.                 4.792.6            -
Savinne                                I                 8,139.0           331.8       28,065,3       49,879.1            10.741.2           45,493.7        38,596.7        113,905.1        295,151.9            22,756.4
TiOue                                  Q                 3,284.8             -         38,707.6       53,980.8             4,591.0            9,459.6        20,151.8         72,521.6        202,697.2              450.0             -
bonil banc  depoCîte                      U                 1,422.4             -               -             -                   _                  _           1,022D5              -     -   - 2,442.9            25,986.8
Letter-  of credit                        1                 5,889.7             -         30,425.7            -                   -                 36.0             -           40,147.0         7t,498.4
Foreisn mdiua-  md îecc-  '               D                             -               -                                         -                   - D       35,000.0                          35,000.0                 -         11,540.8
Ieorurnce corpoTY'o depouite              A                     -               -               -             -                   -                  _               _                _                _                              2,400.0
P.id-up Capical                           T                 2,582.3         5,000.0        4,000.0            -                                      -               -                _           11,582.3             5,000.0       37,721.4
Re.erve.                                  1                    85.7             -               -         1,610.0                 -                892.3           744.1              _            3,332.1            3,392.4        10,890.0
Undietrib.ted profite                     I                   287.7             0.4             -         2,257.1            (7,383.7)             267.1             -            2,841.3         (1,730.1)            5,822.8
Other                                     N                     - 2 7        933.8        15755.5          140.3            1                   4.D55.1         5.653               23.5         25.659.8            4.0665        5706.223
25,075.2        5,918.3       151,641.7     161,442,5            18,84.0            76,459.2       127,645.6        322. 224.6       887,09.2             72,469.8       70.622.3
Soor-O: BR8 .rd IDAI.
A/ EOoudig B5H *nd BNC, chose account, are stili combined under BNRH accunt.
4/ Bot cocaoliiarei.
ciTh.e caturitY of the lanc le net reported, hovever, it i ertioated th.t most are enurt-tero 10H00.
d/  Net inveot1edtg, mud         .... ban, t           her- investe.tet   re held.
I/ Short-te.o li-bilities.
7/8/80



- 31 -                                      Annex 2
- AITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROflCT
Credit
Total Claima of the Financial Syltea
_ _ ______________________________   1975      1976         19177       1978       1979   Z of 1979 Claims
1.
Monetary Authorities b/c/      482.7      577.3       673.2        842.0      961.9    59.1
Private Banks                  337.8      380.6       466.3        553.7     666.7    40.9         -
Total                          820.5      957.9     1,139.5      1,395.7   1,628.6   100.0       100.0
I]i.                                                  Total Claims on the Private Sector
Source
Monetary Authorities b/        129.2      155.1       206.5        251.9     269.2    29.2        16.5
Private Banks                  322.1      364.6       451.4        539.6     652.6    70.8        40.1
Total                          451.3      519.7       657.9        791.5     921.8   100.0        56.6
III.                                                  Total Claims on the Public Sector
Monetary Authorities c/        353.5      422.2       466.7        590.1     692.7    98.0        42.5
Private Banks                   15.7       16.0        14.9         14.1      14.1      2.0        0.9
Total                          369.2      438.2       481.6        604.2     706.8   100.0        43.4
IV.                                                   Net Claims on Private Ianks
Monetary Aithorities
Assets                       13.3       13.7        29.9         31.8      42.4     -
Liabilities                 101.9     159.5        174.8        207.3     209.3     --
-88.6    -145.8       -144.9      -175.5    -166.9      -         -10.2
Source: BRH, IMF and mission estimates.
a/ Consolidated and excluding unclassified assets and interbank float.
b/ Exceot credit to private banks.
cl Net of official capital and surplus.



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
T-1
HAIT-I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
FDI Main Assumptions in Financial Projections
Resources
IDA Credit                   US$6 million
Government Contribution      US$1 million
Total                   US$7 million
Those resources would be allocated to FDI as permanent resources and would
be disbursed to FDI over a 4-year period.  (Annex 3, T-2:  IDA Credit).
Additional resources with the same terms of US$0.8 million in the 4th year
and US$2 million in the 5th year are assumed.
Subloans and Maturities
FDI would have basically two types of subloans as follows:
Subloan           % Share in            Maturity
Type              Portfolio             (years)           Grace Period
Raw Material                 30                   2                   6 months
Integrated                   70                   6                   1 year
Disbursements
Disbursements would take place in the same year of commitment since
loans are small.
Interest Rates
The average interest rate to FDI is estimated at 12% based on the current
interest rates standing between 14 and 18% and the envisaged spreads for finan-
cial intermediaries.
Administrative Expenses
Based on (i) a staff of 3 professionals and 2 support staff (increasing
to three in the second year) with an average annual salary of US$10,000 and
an estimated $20,000 for part of the Directorts salary. The other part of the
Directorys salary may be financed by external assistance while   consultants



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
T-1
cost would be financed from the technical assistance funds allocated for
that in the Credit; (ii) other administrative expenses for legal and
auditing services estimated at US$15,Q00 in the first year, Ciii)
depreciation over five years of the FDI fixed assets estimated to have
an initial cost of US$10t00o,
Guarantees
It is estimated that guarantees represent 40% of the total outstanding
portfolio at any tîme. Also guarantee reserves, increasing to up to 25% of
the guarantee portfolio in the 4th year, would earn an annual interest of
10%. Guarantee losses are estimated at 10% of guarantee portfolio and
written off startîng from the second year of operations. The guarantee
fee is estimated at 2% p.a. of the guarantee portfolio.



ANNEX 3
- 34                                   A T-Z
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
of Proposed Credit
(us$ 'ooo)
Cumulative Disbursements at End of Quarter
Technical
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter              IDA          Assistance         Total
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                      100              300             400
December 31, 1981                       200              500             700
March 31, 1982                          400              600           1,000
June 30, 1982                           600              700           1,300
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                   1,000               800           1,800
December 31, 1982                     1,500              900           2,400
March 31, 1983                        2,000              950           2,950
June 30, 1983                        2,600             1,000           3,600
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                   3,000                 -           4,000
December 31, 1983                    3,500                 -           4,500
March 31, 1984                       4,000                 -           5,000
June 30, 1984                        4,600                 -           5,600
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                   4,900                 -           5,900
December 31, 1984                    5,300                 -           6,300
March 31, 1985                       5,700                 -           6,700
June 30, 1985                        6,000                 -           7,000



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
T-3
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECl`
FDI: Estimated Balance Sheet
(Us$ '000)
Sept.30  Sept.30  Sept.30  Sept.30  Sept. 30
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
A ssets
Cash                             162..    775    ],155    1,282        1,478
Loan Portfolio                 1,440    2,920    4,790    7,220        9,980
Net Fixed Assets                   8         6         4         2          0
1,610    3,701    5,949    8,504    11,458
Liabilities and Equity
Long-term Liabilitiesa/            -         -         -         -          -
Capital _/                     1,600    3,600    5,600    7,800    10,200
Reserves for Guar. Oper.          10       101       340       704       998
Surplus                            -         -         -         -       260
Total Liab. & Equity         1,610    3,701    5,949    8,504    11,458
a,/  FDI would have no long term liabilities.  The IDA credit would be made
available by the Government as an equity type contribution.
b/  Estimates for the fourth and fifth years show additional resources
assumed to be acquired by the FDI under same t:erms.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
T-4
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
FDI: Estimated Results of Operations
(Us$ '000)
FY1982 FY1983  FY1984   FY1985   FY1986
Income
Interest Income                         86      262      463       720    1,032
Gurantee Fees                            6       17       31        48        69
Interest on Reserves                     7       21       40        60        86
Total Income                          99      300      534       828    1,187
Expenses
Administrative Expenses-                85       98      108       123       138
Depreciatiou/                             2       2        2         2         2
Write Off                                 -      87      114       240       344
Total Expenses                        87      187      224       385      484
Net Income (loss)                     12      113      310       443      693
Technical Assistance-                  2       22       62        88       139
Net revenue                           10       91      248       355       554
Gurantee Reserve                      10       91      248       355       294
Cumulative Guarantee reserve-         10      101      349       704      998
Surplus                                -        -        -         -       260
Average Total Assets (ATA)               805   2,656   4,825    7,227    9,981
Gross Spread as % of ATA                12.3    11.3    11.1        11.5      11.9
Net Income as % of ATA                    1.5     4.3      6.4       6.1       6.9
Administrative Expenses as % of ATA  10.6         3.7      2.2       1.7       1.4
a/  Include the salary of FDI staff and other legal and auditing service
expenses. The second year shows a full staff. Administrative
expenses increase at about 12% p.a.
b/ Annual losses of the guarantee operations, assumed to start in the second
year, are estimated at 10% of the guarantee portfolio.
c/  Technical assistance expenses are calculated at 20% of net income.
d/ The reserve of the guarantee operation builds up until it reaches 25%
of the guarantee portfolio in the 4th year of operation.



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
T-5
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
FDI: Estimated Cash Flow
(US$ '000)
FY1982    FY1983    FY1984    FY1985    FY1986
Sources
Net Income                             12        113        310        443        693
Loan Recovery                         160        610        760        800      1,150
Depreciation                            2          2           2          2          2
Paid-in Capital-                    1,600      2,000      2,000      2,200      2,400
Total Sources                     1,774      2,725      3,072      3,445      4,245
Uses
Loan Disbursements                  1,600      2,090      2,630      3,230      3,910
Technical Assistance Programs-          2         22         62         88        139
Fixed Assets                           10          -          -          -          -
Total Uses                        1,612      2,112      2,692      3,318      4,049
Total Sources Less UsPs                  162       613         380        127        196
Cumulative Cash level-                   162       775      1,155      1,282      1,478
i/ Includes IDA credit. It is assumed FDI would have additional capital
contributions amounting to US$0.8 million in year 4 and US$2.4 million in year 5.
bl Technical assistance programs to priority subsectors (para. 3.34). These figures
do not include institutional technical assistance (para. 3.38).
-i  FDI liquidity required for disbursements and potential guarantee losses is
equivalent to an average of 4 to 5 months disbursements. If required, one
million US$ bridge financing would be made avajilable by BRH (para. 3.15).



- 38 -                   ANNEX 4
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A.  General Reports
AI.        Enquete Sur L'Emploi Industriel.
(PNUD/BIT/HAI/741014), Ministere des Affairs Sociales.
Abril, 1980.
A2.        Guide Economique de la Republique d'Haiti, Institut
Haitien de Statistique, Avril, 1977.
A3.        Industrial Investment Code for the Republic of
Haiti, UNIDO, June, 1975.
A4.        Loi Creant La Banque de la Republique d'Haiti.
Le Moniteur, 16 Aout 1979.
A5.        Opportunities and Obstacles to the Development
of the Private Sector in Haiti, M.A. Amsalem, Consultant,
March 27, 1980.
A6.        Private Development Finance Company for Haiti,
Vol. I. ADELATEC, May, 1978.
A7.        Project de Creation d'un Office National Pour la
Promotion des Investissements (ONAPI), April, 1979.
A8.        Small Manufacturing and Repair Enterprises in Haiti:
Survey.Results, Michigan State University, June,
1979.
B. Selected IDA-BANK Reports
BI.        Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti,
Vol. I and Il. World Bank Report No. 2165-HA,
December 22, 1978.
B2.        The Manufacturing Sector in Haiti, World Bank (draft),
November 6, 1979.
C. FDI Project Documents (preliminary drafts).
Ci.        FDI:  Operating Policies and Summary Procedures.
C2.        FDI:  Organizational Aspects
C3.        FDI:  Operating Manual



r               - i       ....;                                                                                   B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13RO D13769R
-  E   w  "'V~~~~~~~~~~~                                               B,   
-À                                                         È'~Y J  t,  Q~.N,  C   4-NE           U         k
Xl~~ 9' 
N~~~~~~î
\                   C-"2                                    f  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q
N .                                    k-rd'                                 -
îî ~          ~ ~ "ÀS                                              y;
j  v                                9$           ~4   '"~   "~                 -,
Fi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~,[



