Document of                            COPY
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2948-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
March 25, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Gourde (G)
US$1:           G5
Gl:             US$0.20
Gl,000,000:     US$200,000
(The Gourde has, since 1919, been pegged to the
U.S. dollar at the rate of G5 5 US$1)
ABBREVIATIONS
BNC           Banque Nationale du Credit
(National Credit Bank)
BNRH          Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti
(National Bank of the Republic of Haiti)
BPH           Banque Populaire Haitienne
(Popular Bank of Haiti)
BRH           Banque de la Republique d'Haiti
(Bank of the Republic of Haiti -
successor to BNRH as the Central Bank)
CEGES         Centre de Formation aux Affaires et a la Gestion
(Business and Management Training Center)
FDI           Fonds de Developpement Industriel
(Industrial Development Fund)
IDAI          Institut de Developpement Agricole et Industriel
(Agricultural and Industrial Development Institute)
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
ILO           International Labor Organization
IMF           International Monetary Fund
INAGHEI       Institut National d'Administration, de Gestion et des Hautes
Etudes Internationales
(National Institute for Public Administration,
Management and Higher International Studies)
INFP          Institut National de Formation Professionelle
(National Vocational Training Institute)
OFATMA        Office d'Assurances des Accidents du Travail, Maladie et Maternite
(Insurance Office for Labor Accidents, Illness and Maternity)
ONA           Office National de l'Artisanat
(National Handicrafts Office)
ONAPI         Office National de Promotion Industrielle
(National Office for the Promotion of Industry)
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SEN           Societe d'Equipement Nationale
(National Equipment Company, a subsidiary of IDAI)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



HAITI                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PRO.JECT
CREDIT AND PH))JlCT SJ44AiY
dorrower:            Republic of Haiti.
Amount:              SDR 5,700,000.
Beneficiary:         Bank of the Republic of Haiti (BRH).
Terms:               Standard.
Project
Description:       The project would support the industrial development of
Haiti by making medium- and long-term credit available to
the industrial sector through FDI established within BRH
to provide a rediscounting and guaranLee mechanism for
participating financial intermediaries. The project also
includes a technical assistance component to help develop
medium- and small-scale industry and to assist the insti-
tutional development of BRH, FDI and the Office of Indus-
trial Promotion (ONAPI).
Through the provision of medium- and long-term funds and
technical assistance, the project would help expand the
industrial sector and contribute to improving its efficiency.
The project would directly create about 2,000 jobs, and,
through its built-in incentives, stimulate the financing
of small- and medium-scale industry, which, thus far, has
had no access to medium- and long-term credit.
Project risks are relatively high, given the pilot nature
of the rediscounting and guarantee mechanism and the
difficulties inherent in setting up a new institution
to carry it out. Moreover, local financial institutions
have no experience with such a scheme, nor does the
Central Bank have much experience in supervising operations
of the banking sector. These risks are mitigated by
ensuring that FDI has a competent management, assisted by
consultants; by the provision of technical assistance
to BRH to help it improve its supervision function and to
ONAPI to help its institutional development and its ability
to assist medium- and small scale industries.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost and
Financing Plan:                                    Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ Million)-----
Government                       1.0                  1.0
IDA
Credit Component                          6.0      6.0
Technical Assistance                      1.0      1.0
Financial Intermediaries
and Beneficiaries             3.0                  3.0
Totals                   4.0        7.0      11.0
Disbursements:                                        IDA Fiscal Years
(US$ Million)
1982     1983      1984    1985
Annual                   1.3       2.3       2.0      1.4
Cumulative               1.3       3.6       5.6      7.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3218-HA, dated  January 30, 1981.



INTFRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOM!ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
l.        1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 5,700,000 (US.7 million equivalent), on standard IDA
terms, to the Republic of Haiti, to hflIn finance an industrial credit project.
The proceeds of the credit would be made available by the Republic of Haiti to
the BanK of the Republic of Haiti for use by its Industrial Development Fund
in rediscount operations with participating public and commercial banks.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The last economic report on Haiti, distributed to the Executive
Directors on March 9, 1981, was Report No. 3079-HA, dated February 17, 1981,
and entitled "Economic Memorandum: Recent Economic, Industrial and Sector
Developments." Its main findings are summarized below. Relevant social
and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.  GNP
per capita in 1979 stood at US$260. Data for 1976 indicated that almost
75 percent of the population lived under conditions of absolute poverty.
An infant mortality rate of about 150 per thousand live births, an average
life expectancy of 51 years, low nutrition and sanitation standards (malntutri-
tion and gastroenteric diseases account for over half of the deaths in the
country) and an adult illiteracy rate of about 80 percent illustrate the
depressed living standards of the population. Though accurate information
does not exist, underemployment is widespread, particularly in the agricul-
tural and informal sectors.
4.         The Haitian economy was characterized during the 1970s by modest
growth subject to cyclical fluctuations. The average annual growth rate
was 3.8 percent or 2.1 percent per capita during the 1970-79 period. Gross
domestic product (GDP) Rrowth has fluctuated from 1.3 Dercent in 1977 to
5.3 percent in 1978 and to 1.7 percent in 1979. These results were strongly
influenced bv the Derformance of agriculture. Manufacturing and construction
show a more even performance.
5.        Agriculture provides employment for about 73 percent of the popula-
tion. It accounted for about 40 percent of GDP growth between 1970 and 1979.
The sector is characterized by erratic behavior, extremely low productivity
and heavy dependence on climatic conditions. Its weak performance is reflected
in rapidly increasing food imports and declining agricultural export volume.
Between 1970-71 and 1978-79, the share of food imports in total imports
increased from 11 Percent to 18 percent, while agricultural exports decreased
by 1.3 Percent annually, in real terms. Recognizing that sustained economic
1/  Peprixted substantially from PRNo.1933-LA of February 18, 1981 for a Post
Hurricane Agricultural Rehabilitation Project in Haiti. All references
to fiscal years are to Haitian fiscal years ending September 30.



- 2 -
growth and a broadening of its benefits requires measures to improve agricul-
tural productivity, the Government has recently initiated programs to introduce
improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations, restore the major
irrigation system and develop agro-industries.
6.         Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public
utilities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with annual
average growth rates of 6.6 percent, 13.9 percent and 9.0 percent, respectively.
Their combined share in real GDP represented 21 percent in 1979 (in constant
prices), but, desDite their strong growth dynamics, their combined contribution
to GDP growth during the nine-year period did not exceed one-half of the GDP
increm-n'-. The manufacturing sector owes much of its expansionary drive to
the export processing industries and to a rapid increase in output of construc-
tion materials. Growth of locally manufactured products for the domestic
market was necessarily limited by the thinness of this market, explainable by
the early stage of development of Haiti.
7.        Starting from very low levels, public investment has increased
rapidly since 1970, at an average annual rate of 23.4 percent in real terms,
and its sectoral composition has undergone significant changes. While during
the first Five-Year Plan (1971-76), only about 11 percent of total government
development expenditures was for agriculture, the latter's share in the second
Five-Year Plan (1977-81), on the basis of projects alreadv approved, is
estimated at about 24 percent. Other areas of high priority are transport,
education, and health, especially geared to rural areas. The overall orienta-
tion of the 1977-81 development program also reflects the Government's objec-
tive to decentralize economic activity in favor of rural areas and provincial
towns. Their share in total development expenditures is likely to increase
from about 50 percent in the recent past, to about 70 percent during the second
Five-Year Plan period. However, the Government's decision to carry out three
major investment projects outside the Five-Year Plan, will displace or delay
planned investments and could substantially alter the expected pattern of
outlays
8.         Institutional strengthening is among the second Five-Year Plan's
highest priorities, and technical assistance for proj-ct preparation and
implementation has been considerably increased. A Joint Commission for the
Implementation of External Cooperation Programs was established in 1975
to consider the country's economic situation and external technical and
financial assistance programs. The Commission, for which the Organization
of American States (OAS) provides the secretariat, is composed of senior
government officials and of representatives of the multilateral and bilateral
aid agencies active in Haiti. The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, under the chairmanship of the World Bank, is another forum for
policy dialogue with the Haitian authorities.
9.        The mobilization of domestic resources for development expenditures
is hampered by institutional weaknesses in the banking sector and in public
finance. During the 1977-79 period, gross national savings (GNS) amounted to
2.9 percent of gross national product (GNP), down from 5.5 percent in FY75.
As the public sector provides a sizeable share of total savings, success in
raising national savings would depend, to a considerable degree, on efforts



to improve public finance management. In line with the recommendations of the
Bank and other donor agencies, a major reorganization of fiscal management,
currently taking place with IMF assistance, should help strengthen such
efforts. Inflation was not particularly high in the recent past, but its rate
is increasing pari-passu with world inflation, rising from 9.4 percent in 1979
to around 12 percent in 1980. An expected lower supply of food in 1981 will
probably increase the consumer price index by 20 percent.
10.       Most public revenues have been integrated into the budget; the
Treasury now centralizes all current expenditures and a significant share
of capital expenditures; tax collection is being consolidated and para-
fiscal functions have been removed from the Regie du Tabac; sound accounting
procedures are being established in all public institutions; customs duties
have been consolidated and their average rate raised; new taxes have been
imposed on the lottery and on international communications and the income
tax law was amended to improve equity and elasticity of income taxation.
11.       Notwithstanding a very strong performance of coffee export tax revenues,
the public sector deficit increased significantly from 3.4 percent of GDP in FY79
to around 4.7 percent in FY80. As a result, the Government could not reach
agreement with the IMF on the program related to the remainder of the 1979-81
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) until March-April 1980, and this agreement was
substantially revised in December 1980 in the light of the impact of Hurricane
Allen. The situation will require both additional revenue measures and tight
control of expenditures. FY81 will be a difficult period for Haiti inasmuch
as the coffee crop will be a poor one, world coffee prices have dropped and
bauxite export revenues will also decline.
12.       Despite the slowdown in national savings, gross investment has
accelerated, reaching 14.9 percent of GNP in 1977-79. This growth in invest-
ment was entirely attributable to the public sector, whose share of total
investment has increased to two-thirds. The gap between national investment
and savings, therefore, averaged 12 percent of GNP between 1977-79, compared to
8.4 percent in 1975 and 4.1 percent in 1970. The most important contributions
to filling this resource gap, have come from government borrowing from inter-
national and bilateral aid agencies (40 percent), grants-in-aid (35 percent),
and private transfers and direct foreign :nvestment (25 percent). The public
sector depends almost exclusively on foreign sources for the financing of its
deficit. These inflows permitted prior to 1980 an increase in foreign
reserve holdings despite a net outflow of short--erm funds.
13.       Gross international reserves fell from a level equal to two months
of imports of goods and net factor services (NFS) in 1977-79, to a level of
one month of goods and NFS by September 1980, as a result of a sharp expansion
of Central Bank credit to the public sector and of government investment in
several industrial projects in 1980. Private transfers continue growing as
the number of Haitians working abroad increases. Private direct investment has
also been rapidly rising with political stability, fiscal incentives, and
cheap labor as the main factors. It is expected to continue to rise. In
1979, new private foreign investment was almost five times higher than in
1975 (in nominal terms).



14.       The high proportion of grants and concessionary loans has helped in
maintaining the debt-service ratio at an estimated 4.2 percent for 1979. The
rising level of private foreign investment and of suppliers' credits, however,
will bring with it larger factor payments in the form of dividend repatriation
and interest payments. Net factor payments have doubled in 1979 over 1976 and
the ratio of public debt amortization, plus net factor payments (including
private non-guaranteed debt) to exports of goods and non-factor services, is
11.6 percent.
15.       A necessary continuation -- at a somewhat quicker pace than in the
past -- of Haiti's economic development will require a further increase in
the use of foreign savings, given the extremely low domestic saving capacity.
This would require external financing of a high proportion of the cost of
development projects, including local cost when the latter constitute a major
share of total cost. Furthermore, in view of the country's poverty, Haiti
will continue to require external assistance on concessionary terms for some
time to come, if it is to achieve a significant improvement in the standard of
living of its population. An important factor in determining the availability
of this assistance will be the effective implementation of the fiscal reform,
and, in particular, the control of expenditures, including those of a capital
nature. This aspect will be closely monitored by the Association.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI 1/
16.       Since 1974, IDA has financed nine projects in Haiti.  Two credits
for highway projects were made in 1974 and 1975. In 1976, a credit was made
for an education project and, in 1977, credits were made for power and rural
development projects. In 1978, credits were made for a transportation project
(secondary roads and a pilot port component); for a second education project
and for a water supply project in provincial towns. In 1979, a credit for a
second power project was approved. In 1981, credits were approved for a
post-hurricane agricultural rehabilitation project in the Southern Peninsula
and for a port development project. The total of credits outstanding is
US$110 million, of which US$37.4 million were undisbursed as of February 28,
1981. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations in Haiti
as of February 28, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC
has not made any investments in Haiti but is now considering two projects, one
in agro-business and the other for a housing bank.
17.       Various multilateral and bilateral development agencies are active
in Haiti. IDB has made loans for rural development, transportation, industrial
credit, rural education, water supply, development of the Port-au-Prince
harbor and urban drainage in Port-au-Prince, and has under active consideration
projects for agricultural and industrial credit, rural development and refores-
tation. In addition, projects are being prepared for secondary road construc-
tion and water supply.   USAID is providing assistance for integrated rural
1/   Reprinted, with minor changes, from President's Report No. 2933-HA on an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project in the Southern Peninsula.



- 5 -
development projects, community development, malaria eradication, maternal-
child health and family planning, modernization of coffee production and
marketing, construction of feeder roads and for highway maintenance. In
addition, USAID is considering a program of assistance under Title III of
PL480 to help strengthen the staff and improve the efficiency of key ministries.
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is supporting a rural
development project in the Southern Pe- nsula and a power project in Port-au-
Prince in connection with IDA's Second Power Project, and is assisting agricul-
tural atud .echnical education and the construction of schonl facilities.  CIDA
has also completed a study of Haiti's water resource potential for both irri-
gation and for power generation. France is financing seed production, educa-
tional planning and research, road construction and equipment for provincial
airports. The Federal Republic of Germany is providing technical and financial
assistance for a regional development project in the Gonaives Plain, power
facilities for Cap Haitien and the Drouet and Gonaives-St. Marc areas, and,
together with France, is providing technical assistance for the execution of
the IDA-assisted rural development project in the Northern Plain.
18.       Recent and prospective IDA operations in Haiti take into account
the ongoing and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line
with the Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan
(1977-81) and with Haiti's development priorities, current and planned
IDA operations are meant to support the improvement and expansion of basic
infrastructure in transportation, power, sites and services and marketing
of produce; to expand educational opportunities and upgrade technical skills,
to promote development in both rural areas and provincial towns, and to create
new employment opportunities in the directly productive sectors. All proposed
operations would include substantial institution building components.
19.       A third education project is being prepared for appraisal in
June 1981. A sixth highway project, to be appraised in April, would include
a bridge rehabilitation component being prepared under the ongoing Sixth
Transport Project. A third power project has been identified and is in early
stages of preparation. The ongoing Rural Development Project provides for the
preparation of another project which would extend the scope of the Regional
Development Agency's programs to additional areas of the Northern Department.
A pilot fuelwood project is also under preparation; it would address the
severe soil erosion problem and the need to rationalize fuelwood production.
An urban project, being prepared with assistance from the Project Preparation
Facility, is expected to help the poorer segment of the population through
upgrading of a produce market in Port-au-Prince and sites and services
assistance in one or two provincial towns.
20.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and out-
standing came to 28.5 percent as of October 1, 1979. The Bank Group's share
of external public debt service was about 3.8 percent. While its share of out-
standing public external debt is expected to increase to about 29.8 percent in
1980, its share of external debt service would rise to about 4 percent.



-6-
PART III - THE MANUFACTUJRING AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Manufacturing Sector - Structure and Growth
21.       According to official statistics, manufacturing growth accelerated
from an average real rate of 0.6 percent p.a. during the 1950s and the 1960s to
almost 7 percent during 1970-79, considerably above the average for the whole
economy. It is estimated that, in fact, industrial growth was around 14 percent
during the 1970s, if one takes into account the fact that import-substituting
industries established in the 1960s and the export processing industries of the
1970s are not included in the official estimates. Major industries contributing
to growth in the import-substituting group were cement, wheat products, flour,
clothing and shoes, beer and sugar refining, and in the assembly export group,
electronics, clothing, toys and sporting goods. Haiti's manufacturing sector,
nevertheless, provided only 13 percent of GDP in 1979 (excluding industries
not included in official estimates) and is still dominated by traditional
activities. Food, beverages, textiles, clothing, leather, and footwear
represented almost 57 percent of value added in manufacturing in 1976. Other
subsectors renresenting smaller shares of value added were machinery and
equipment (10 percent), construction materials (5 percent), tobacco (4 per-
cent) and essential oils (3 percent). Wood products and furniture, paper
and printing, metal products and other activities represented the remaining 21
percent of the total value added in that year. This sectoral structure is
typical for a country still at an incipient stage of industrialization.
Manufactured Exports
22.       Net manufactured exports experienced a remarkable increase of 12
percent p.a. in 1970 prices during 1970-77, from only US$11 million in 1970
to more than US$54 million in 1977. Export processing industries, which in
1977 accounted for 42.3 percent of net manufactured exports, are concentrated
in clothing (52 Percent), electronic components (26 percent) and sporting
articles (16 percent). With $2,800 average direct investment per job, export
processing industries are labor intensive and have, since 1971, created some
18,000 jobs as opposed to 2,000 new jobs in modern industries producing for
the local market. Manufactured exports are directed mainly to the U.S. market
but have been lately constrained by import quota restrictions on garments.
Their growth, as that of industry in general, has also been hampered by inade-
quate infrastructure. Future development of export processing industries will
depend, among other things, on tapping new markets and diversifying exported
products.
Emplovment
23.       Haiti has an estimated unemployment rate of 15 percent, which is
further aggravated bv widespread disguised unemployment. Only 8 percent of
the total labor force is absorbed in industry. Manufacturing sector employment
increased at 3 percent p.a. between 1971 and 1977, while the urban labor force,
swelled bv rural emigration, experienced increases of 4 percent p.a., well
above the growth of the total active population. This situation emphasizes
the need for regional and infrastructure development and, in particular, the
need to create jobs in the industrial sector, and to improve agricultural
productivitv.



-7-
Industrial Policy
24.       The Government's industrial policy, although not clearly defined,
has been implemented through a system of incentives favoring employment
creation, export growth, and spatial decentralization. In addition, the
Government is supporting the development of technical assistance services for
the manufacturing sector. The Government is currently preparing an industrial
policy for the Third Development Plan (FY82-86) based on the promotion of
employment creating industry. The investment code, currently under revision,
consists of five decree laws issued between 1960 and 1977. Differentiated
fiscal incentives are granted to: (a) enterprises manufactturing goods not
being produced in Haiti; (b) those creating industrial linkages; (c) labor
intensive, export oriented enterprises using local raw materials; (d) and
those located outside of Port-au-Prince. Income tax holidays are granted to
eligible enterprises for periods ranging between five year; (for pioneer
industries) to 15 years (for enterprises located outside of Port-au-Prince).
There is a need to revise the incentive system which protects privileged firms
from entry of new competition and grants fiscal incentives to firms exporting
their total production as opposed to those producing for both local and export
markets. Also, traditional products such as crafts, which could contribute to
employment creation, need to be encouraged.
25.       Traditionally the Government has left the industrial sector to
private enterorise, although it recently embarked on a more active role in
industry with a view to expanding employment opportunities and widening the
industrial base. It decided to purchase a new sugar mill and to participate
in a fishing fleet venture and in a vegetable oil plant. These projects,
which were not included in Haiti's Five-Year Plan or in its investment budget,
were financed under relatively hard terms. Moreover, their economic justifi-
cation is not clear. The Government is also considering investments in a
second sugar mill, a cement plant and a textile plant: it is not yet clear
what the Government's decision will be regarding these projects. Feasibility
studies are being carried out on the cement and textile projects. As part of
its effort to assist the private industrial sector, the Government established
a new agency in March 1979, known as Office National de Promotion Industrielle
(National Office for the Promotion of Industry - ONAPI), to expand the market
for Haiti's industrial products; promote new investments, and assist in
developing the industrial sector.
Prospects for Industrial Growth
26.       Development of the industrial sector in Haiti is limited by several
factors, in particular by a small domestic market characterized by the low
purchasing power of the majority of Haitians and a thin industrial base,
which is incapable of creating a reasonable level of demand for intermediate
goods. Haitian exports have henefitted from U.S. Customs regulations which
permit duty-free entry of goods assembled overseas, provided the value of
U.S. components is no less than 60 percent of the total value of such goods.
On the other hand, growth in exports has slowed down in some subsectors,
particularly textiles and garments, because of the U.S. quota system.
Unreliable raw materials' supply combined with their low quality hamper
interindustry linkages and backward integration, and reduce the quality of
finished goods. There are also severe shortages of craftsmen, technical



- 8 -
personnel and managerial and entrepreneurial talent. Poor road conditions and
communications systems, serious power shortages, and inadequate water supply
outside of Port-au-Prince, have contributed to the concentration of industry
in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area. Moreover, availability and access
to credit are major problems confronting new and smaller enterprises in Haiti.
Finally, the weak institutional framework has also inhibited further growth of
the industrial sector.
27.       Prospects for industrial growth depend upon the development of
labor-intensive export industries, which require the identification and
development of new markets. It is also necessary to promote the growth and
rationalization of the agricultural sector to increase the supply and quality
of domestic inputs for industry. The incentive system needs to be revised,
mainly by establishing progressive incentives on the basis of employment
creation and domestic value added. In addition, administrative bottlenecks
which hamper industrial investment should be removed. While in the long run
the development of the economy, particularly of the industrial sector, will
be determined by a number of factors, including physical infrastructure which
needs to be improved, in the short term industrial parks and access to term
financing may alleviate some of these short-comings. In addition, some
trained manpower for industry is being provided from a number of sources,
including vocational and technical facilities under IDA's Second Education
Project (Cr. 770-HA of March 1978). A national program of industrial parks,
based on regional plans and future improvements in infrastructure, needs
further consideration. The proposed project would assist the Government in
reducing credit constraints by making available term financing for the indus-
trial sector and developing an efficient credit scheme. It would also
strengthen and provide technical assistance services, particularly to help
small and medium enterprises in project preparation and to improve their
operations, and would serve to intensify the dialogue between the Government
and IDA, regarding industrial and financial policies.
The Financial Sector: Institutional Framework
28.       The monetary and financial policies of Haiti are established
by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs after consultation with the
Banque de la Republique d'Haiti (BRH). A law of June 26, 1980, gives the
Ministrv of Finance and Economic Affairs authority over the financial system,
including direct control of BRH and financial institutions. BRH influences
monetary and credit policies mainly through interest rate management. The
effectiveness of these policies is limited by the dual currency (dollar!
gourde) system and the small size and openness of the Haitian economy.
Capital moves freely in and out of Haiti under a fixed exchange rate of
five gourdes per U.S. dollar, a rate which has not changed since 1919.
29.       Until September 11, 1979, BRH operated both as a Central Bank and
a commercial bank, as Banque Nationale de la Republique d' Haiti (BNRH). At
that time, the Government assigned commercial banking operations to the newly
established Banque Nationale du Credit (BNC). In addition to BRH and BNC,
there are nine banking institutions (eight private and one public), and one
government-owned development finance company (IDAI). There are also about 32
agencies of private insurance companies (mostly foreign), four government-
owned pension funds, aDproximately 50 active "caisses populaires" (savings



- 9 -
loans associations) and one agricultural finance Bureau within the
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development.
A proposed private development finance company is still in the planning
stage, mainly because it lacks government support. Four foreiRn banks
dominate the commercial banking sector with 86 Percent of private bank
assets. Domestic banks are relatively weak institutions. Commercial banks
provide primarily import-export financi.-, with about 94 percent of their
total loan portfolio concentrated in short-term operations. Term loans are
usually ciose to one-year maturity or are callable on demzid, and therefore
are basically of a short-term nature.
30.       Of the two government-owned commercial banks, BNC is the larger,
although exact portfolio data are not available as its assets have not yet
been fully separated from those of BRH. The other public bank, Banque Populaire
Haitienne (BPH) is in rinancial difficulties and operates almost as BNC's
subsidiary. IDAI, a g'ivernment-owned entity established in 1961, is the only
development finance company in Haiti. It is primarily involved through its
subsidiary, Societe d'Equipement National (SEN), in equity investments which
represent 58 percent of its assets.
Monetary Policies and Operations
31.       BRH periodically reviews the minimum and maximum interest rates
allowed for financial institutions (currently lending rates range between
14-18 percent) to keep them in line with interest rates abroad. Savings
accounts earn 6 percent p.a. and time deposits under one year earn 10-12
percent D.a. Interest rates for time deposits above one year vary between
11 percent and 14 percent p.a. for deposits up to USSlOO,OOO, and 12-18
percent p.a. for those above. Given these rates and the reserve require-
ments (currently 34 percent on demand and savings deposits; 10 percent on
term deposits above one year and 20 percent below one year), it is estimated
that the average spread of private bank operations is around 4 nercent p.a.
In the opinion of local bankers, operations Droviding an interest spread of at
least 2 percent p.a. are attractive. These reasonable spreads are the result
of BRH's interest rate policies that, since 1979, allow and promote competition.
During 1975-1979, inflation averaged around 10.6 percent p.a. rising to around
12 percent in 1980. Despite these levels of inflation, current lending rates
provide for positive real interest of up to 6 percent p.a. Given the expected
increase in inflation in 1981 over the 15 percent level, mainly due to hurri-
cane related shortages in foodstuffs, real rates of interest could decline.
Based on BRH's policies, however, it is expected that nominal interest rates
would be adiusted to reflect market conditions.
32.       A new Banking Law, of November 17, 1980, sets out the general
regulations governing financial institutions. Detailed regulations will be
issued by BRH regarding the term structure of banks' lending operations.  In
the past, reserve requirements have seldom changed and were not used to
affect the volume of credit. Capital requirements under the new Banking Law
tend to favor foreign banks, particularly those already established in the
country. Application of the Banking Law may be hampered by the limited
experience of BRH's Supervision Department and by limitations, under the Law,
regarding the provision of specific information on bank operations.



- 10 -
33.        The level of real savings in Haiti is low.  The public sector
generates little savinas as growth of current revenues is still limited
by obsolete income tax and import duty legislation (which is being
revised), and by fluctuations in coffee export taxes. A small, high
income grouD has not made its savings available to the financial sector
because, until late 1979, interest rates, which had not changed since 1974,
did not encouragefinancial savings. However, recent developments giving BRH
greater flexibility in adjusting interest rates are expected to encourage the
growth of the financial sector.
34.       BRH, BNC, IDAI and BPH constitute the major sources of domestic
lending in Haiti. In 1979, these institutions accounted for 59 percent of the
total claims on the financial system while the remaining 41 percent was in the
hands of the private banking sector. Government-owned financial entities,
with 98 percent of total claims on the public sector, are the major sources of
funds for public enterprises which in 1979 held 43.4 percent of total liabili-
ties of the financial system. Private banks also provide significant financial
resources through reserve requirements to monetary authorities. On the other
hand, private banks with 71 percent of claims on the private sector in 1979,
are the major source of funds for private enterprises. Nevertheless, the
participation of public banking institutions, mainly BNC, in private credit
financing is significant, around 29 percent in 1979. Because commercial
credit is almost entirely short-term, it has been difficult to quantify the
demand for medium- and long-term credit. The Government, however, together
with the banking and industrial sectors, is satisfied that there is a substan-
tial demand for such credit. This was also confirmed by soundings made with
the private sector during appraisal of the project and by a USAID-financed
report on the potential for a private development finance company.
Issues and Outlook
35.       Monetary authorities have since 1979 followed a policy of managing
interest rates in line with market conditions, promoting competition among banks
and helping to sustain a mininum level of savings. Nevertheless, there is a
need for foreign resources to finance economic growth, particularly in the
industrial sector. Medium and long-term resources are scarce while short-term
lending is provided mainly to prime borrowers. To continue fostering the
growth of the small financial markets BRH should continue its policy of main-
taining interest rates close to international market rates. Standard regula-
tions governing guarantees (i.e. collaterals and mortgages) should be developed.
It is expected that the proposed proiect would encourage financial intermedia-
ries to provide term lending to productive and efficient projects of the
Drivate sector. Moreover, the proposed project would contribute to strengthen-
ing BRH staff's capabilities, in particular those of its Supervision Department.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was identified in 1979 and was prepared by BRH, with
assistance of Bank staff and consultants financed under a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) advance of US$375,000. It was appraised in July/August, 1980.
A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3218-HA) entitled "Haiti Industrial Credit
Proiect" is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a supplementary



- 11 -
Project Data sheet. Negotiations for the proposed credit took place in
Washington, D. C. from February 11 through February 20, 1981. The Haitian
delegation was led by H.E. Mr. Serge Charles, Ambassador of Haiti to the
United States.
Project Objectives
37.       The primary objective of the proposed project, 'IDA's first involve-
ment in the Haitian industrial sector, is to support the Government's policy
of promoting industrial development through financing the private industrial
sector, particularly small and medium industrial enterprises. The project
would assist the Government in establishing a special fund in BRH to provide
term loans through financial intermediaries and guarantees for smaller loans
on an optional basis. The project would also provide technical assistance to
BRH to strengthen its supervision capabilities and to hel?) in developing
technical assistance programs for small and medium scale ~nterprises. In
particular, the project would provide technical assistance to ONAPI to
strengthen its capabilities in providing specialized services and to develop
technical assistance programs to small and medium enterprises.
Institutional Structure
38.       A special fund, Fonds de Developpement Industriel (FDI), has been
established in BRH to provide medium- and long-term financing for private
industrial Haitian-owned enterprises. A two-tier credit system would be
established comprising BRH, through FDI, as a second-tier institution, and a
network of participating financial intermediaries, qualified by BRH. FDI has
an indefinite duration, separate staff and non-transferrable permanent resources
allocated to it by the Government through BRH. FDI is subject to examination
by the internal comptroller of BRH and it will be audited annually by indepen-
dent external auditors acceptable to IDA. FDI's lending activities will be
conducted pursuant to a Statement of Policy which is satisfactory to the
Association and which has been approved by the Board of Directors of BRH.
The Statement of Policy also includes basic procedures to be followed by FDI's
staff. These procedures are in the process of being set out in detail in
FDI's Operating Manual.
39.       FDI's initial staff consists of a Director and two professionals,
to be supported by a consultant with an economic and financial background and
with experience in industrial sector technical assistance programs. FDI
policies and procedures provide that all new credit applications and guarantees
will be approved by FDI's Director. Sub-projects which, in the course of
their implementation, require changes in their terms and conditions, will be
referred to the Board of BRH for review and decision.
40.       A Project Advisory Committee has been established, chaired by the
Governor of BRH, and comprising the Director of FDI and representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
the Ministry of Planning, ONAPI, and the participating financial intermediaries
and private industry. The Committee will be instrumental in obtaining the
cooperation of government agencies to implement the project and will assist
the Government in examining overall industrial and credit policies and in
exchanging views with FDI's staff on technical assistance programs for small



- 12 -
and medium enterprises. It will meet at least once every twelve months or as
required by the Governor of BRH. Formal adoption of the Project Advisory
Committee's bylaws in a form and substance acceptable to IDA and the appoint-
ment of its members would take place not later than September 30, 1981 (Section
3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).
41.        All financial institutions accredited by BRH, which have less than
25 percent of their loan portfolios affected by arrears, would be eligible to
participate in the FDI scheme and would enter into a participation agreement
with BRH. Receipt by IDA of a copy of a satisfactory participation agreement
between BRH and at least two financial intermediaries would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). Finan-
cial intermediaries would be responsible for making, administering and maint-
aining adequate records on all subloans for their respective beneficiaries.
Except for the portion of their guaranteed subloans, the intermediaries would
assume the full credit risk on their loans. FDI will follow up on interme-
diaries' operations with assistance from BRH's Supervision Department. About
half of the private banks in Haiti could become eligible to use the scheme.
Public institutions, such as BNC and IDAI, interested in using FDI's resources
but not meeting the eligibility criteria because of current substantial loan
portfolio arrears, would need to prepare and implement a program acceptable to
FDI and IDA to improve their management, organization and financial conditions.
Such a program would show how the institution intended to reduce its port-
folio affected by arrears to 25 percent within one year (during which it could
provisionally participate in the discount facility, but not in the guarantee
scheme) and to 10 percent at the end of the third year and thereafter (Section
I(B) of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
Credit Features
42.        FDI's initial resources, would include: (a) the US$6 million credit
component of the proposed IDA credit; and (b) US$1 million equivalent to be
provided by the Government. A first payment by the Government equivalent to
US$250,000, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(d) of the
draft Credit Agreement). The balance would be made available as requested by FDI,
but in any case, not later than October 31, 1983 (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit
Agreement). These initial resources of FDI, amounting to US$7 million, represent
70 percent of total investments under the project, which, together with another
30 percent from financial intermediaries and project beneficiaries, would result
in total investment of the order of US$10 million. The Government would service
the IDA credit which would be allocated to increase the permanent resources of
FDI for industrial lending and provide institutional technical assistance under
conditions acceptable to IDA (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The Government will also help meet the administrative costs of FDI until
September 30, 1983 (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement). Consultant
services would be financed under the institutional technical assistance
component. To ensure the liquidity of FDI, BRH would provide up to US$1
million equivalent as bridge financing, if and when required, to permit FDI
disbursements before IDA funds for individual subprojects are released (Section
2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
43.        Project costs include US$1 million equivalent of the proposed credit
credit to finance institutional technical assistance for FDI, BRH's Super-
vision Department and ONAPI. US$375,000 would be used to repay the Project



- 13 -
Preparation Facility advance (para. 36). The remaining resources of US$625,000
would initially be allocated as follows: US$150,000 for ONAPI, US$250,000 for
FDI, US$100,000 for BPH's Supervision Department and US$125,000 unallocated.
44.        FDI will ope,rate as a revolving fund with all sub-loan collections
being recycled into new subloan disbursements. With initial resources of
US$7 million, FDI would disburse an average of US$2 million annually during
the first four years of operations. By the fourth year it is expected that
FDI would secure additional resources. An average gross 3pread of about
12 percent p.a. of average total assets is estimated and the net income would
reach 6 percent p.a. by 1984. Losses under the guarantee scheme are estimated
at 10 percent of the total guarantee portfolio or 4 percent of the total FDI
portfolio. FDI's initial liquidity, equivalent to 4-5 months of disbursements,
would be used as a reserve for potential losses and for disbursements although
experience may show that guarantee operation losses could be lower than
estimated. Twenty percent of FDI's net income would be provided as grants to
finance special technical assistance programs geared to the development of the
industrial sector. During the first two years of project implementation,
technical assistance programs will mainly be implemented by ONAPI in agreement
with FDI and IDA. The signing of a cooperative agreement, satisfactory to
IDA, between FDI and ONAPI would be a condition of disbursement to ONAPI
(Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Credit Agreement). Prior to the withdrawal
from the Credit Account of one-third of the amount allocated to credit opera-
tions, IDA and BRH would exchange views on the soundness of IDF's policies and
the terms and conditions of sub-loans and their discounting, including the use
of resources by the various sub-sectors (Section 3.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Relending Terms
45.        FDI will, through financial intermediaries, finance sound indus-
trial projects of enterprises engaged in handicrafts, manufacturing, fisheries,
mining, tourism, transport and construction as well as service enterprises.
This financing, denominated in gourdes, would cover the cost of purchase,
construction or renovation of equipment, machinery, cargo vehicles, civil
works and industrial buildings. To make available FDI term resources to a
large number of firms and individuals, the maximum subloan size and total
outstanding for any beneficiary would not exceed $250,000. Repeater opera-
tions would be possible only when at least 50 percent of previous FDI subloans
to the same borrower had been repaid. Interest rates charged by financial
intermediaries are subject to market rates within the limits (currently
between 14 percent and 18 percent) established by BRH for commercial banks.
These rates are periodically reviewed to reflect market conditions. BRH will
maintain interest rates at levels sufficient to reflect market conditions
and inflationary trends (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       Considering the small size of FDI's individual discounts and its
limited project appraisal capabilities, simplified appraisals prepared by
financial intermediaries would be acceptable. The first four operations of each
financial intermediary would require IDA's prior approval (Section 2.02(a) and
(b) of the draft Project Agreement). In these cases, FDI would submit to IDA for
approval a copy of its review of the standard appraisal formats. After these
first four operations to be approved on a case by case basis, FDI's Director
would request IDA authorization of subprojects in minimum batches involving
financing of at least US$200,000 equivalent (Section 2.02(d) of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 14 -
Each authorization request would consist of a list of subprojects containing
their industrial classification, brief description, number of jobs created,
the amount of the subloans, the expenditures to be financed, the terms of the
subloans, the name of the financial intermediary granting the subloans and the
dates of submission of the discount application by the financial intermediary
to FDI (Section 2.02(d) of the draft Project Agreement). The final date for
submission of requests for financing of subprojects under the IDA credit would
be January 31, 1985 (Section 2.02(f) of the draft Project Agreement).
47.       Responding to the needs of small and medium enterprises, interme-
diaries would make working capital loans not to exceed US$45,000 per applicant
to be financed under the project. The maximum aggregate amount of working
capital financing under the proposed credit would not exceed 30 percent of FDI
resources initially available for lending. The same 30 percent limit on
working capital financing would also apply to projects involving both working
capital and fixed asset financing (Part III(C) of the Schedule to the draft
Project Agreement). Preinvestment studies and technical assistance services
for investment projects could be financed under the scheme.
48.       The terms of FDI financing would be for up to 15 years, including up
to 3 years of grace, although the average term is likely to be about 6 years.
Working capital and technical assistance subloan repayment would be for up to
2 years including 6 months of grace. As an incentive to financial interme-
diaries to handle smaller loans, a higher spread and larger percentage discount
are provided. Following the above criteria, the maximum amount, percentages
of FDI financing and interest spreads for intermediaries are as shown below
(Part III(D) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement):
Maximum percentage
Amount to be         of sub-loans          Financial
Category of           discounted         to be discounted    Intermediary
Discount Operations           by FDI               by FDI             Spreads
I               Up to                      90%            1/3 of interest
US$50,000                                 charged to ulti-
mate beneficiary.
II               From US$50,000             80%            1/4 of interest
to US$150,000                             charged to ulti-
mate beneficiary.
III               From US$150,000            70%            1/6 of interest
to US$250,000                             charged to ulti-
mate beneficiary.



- 15 -
Terms and Limits of Guarantees
49.       To encourage financial intermediaries to provide medium-and long-
term lending to small and medium enterprises, FDI can provide guarantees at
the request of financial intermediaries simultaneously with the specific FDI
subloans. Guarantee operations are limited to the first two categories (see
para. 48) cf F{S-_Clnt operatiors (Part IV(B) of the Scheduile to the draft
Project A0reement). Maximum guarantee coverage will be 75 percent of principal
discounted in the first category and 60 percent of principal discounted in the
second category. Financial intermediaries would pay a guarantee fee, which is
not transferable to ultimate beneficiaries, equivalent to 1/8 of the interest
charged to the ultimate beneficiary. The maximum volume of guarantees to be
provided by FDI is limited to 40 percent of FDI's total outstanding portfolio
(Part IV(D)(4) of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement), while liquid
reserves would, in four years, accumulate to 25 percent of the outstanding
guarantee portfolio. As experience is gained, this percentage may be changed
to bring it in line with actual loss experience. FDI's Director will closely
monitor the guarantee portfolio to ensure that losses are kept at a minimum.
50.       Eligibility criteria under guarantee operations are:  (a) benefi-
ciaries 'o have a maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1 and an estimated debt
service coverage of at least 2:1; (b) beneficiaries to have no overdue finan-
cial obligations; (c) guarantees not to be part of refinancing operations; and
(d) the total exposure of FDI to the same beneficiary not to exceed US$90,000.
Technical Assistance
51.       The proposed project includes US$1 million of technical assistance
services for FDI, BRH's Supervision Department and ONAPI. This amount would
be used to repay advances made under the Project Preparation Facility and to
finance the activities described below. An amount of US$125,000 has not been
allocated and is held in reserve for technical assistance needs identified in
the course of project execution. Excluding the unallocated amount, 84 man/
months of consulting services are included in the projects at an average all
inclusive cost of US$6,000 per man/month.
(a) FDI: Consulting services to assist FDI staff would be financed
under the project, as professional staff with the necessary qualifications are
difficult to find in Haiti.  Initially, a consultant with economic and financial
background would assist FDI staff in project evaluation and review and in
supervision. Short-term consultants, as required for project implementation,
could also be financed under the project. The terms of reference of the
consultants to be hired by FDI would be acceptable to IDA (Section 2.09 of the
draft Project Agreement). An amount of US$250,000 has been allocated to
cover the full cost of consultant services.
(b) BRH's Supervision Department: FDI will seek the cooperation of
BRH's Supervision Department for the supervision of financial institutions
and the evaluation of their financial condition. The development of BRH's
Supervision Department procedures and staff would require consultant services.
The IMF has recently appointed an experienced banking examiner as a consultant,



- 16 -
who may be partly financed under the proposed project, to develop a detailed
program of technical assistance for BRH's Supervision Department and, as
required by the Governor of BRH, to make recommendations regarding the
eligibility of financial intermediaries; the supervision functions of BRH
related to the proposed project, and regarding the internal audit and control
of FDI. One hundred thousand U.S. dollars equivalent has initially been
allocated to finance technical assistance to BRH's Supervision Department.
The terms of reference of additional consultants for BRH's Supervision
Department, if required, would be acceptable to IDA (Section 2.09 of the draft
Project Agreement).
(c) ONAPI: Because of the limited experience of ONAPI's staff, consul-
tant services are also needed for a review of ONAPI's organization, the
development of its technical assistance policies and priorities, and of
initial technical assistance programs. ONAPI has engaged a local consultant,
acceptable to IDA, to undertake these tasks. An amount of US$150,000
equivalent has been allocated under the proposed project to finance ONAPI's
consulting needs. The scope of ONAPI's technical assistance program for small
and medium enterprises and the method of its implementation would be reviewed
by IDA prior to ONAPI's signing a technical cooperation agreement with FDI
(Condition of Disbursement, Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Disbursements and Procurement
52.       IDA would reimburse FDI 86 percent of its disbursements for approved
subloans, against fully documented withdrawal applications. Based on this
disbursement percentage, it is expected that IDA funds would finance, on the
average, the foreign exchange costs of individual subprojects estimated at
60-65 percent. IDA would reimburse FDI for expenditures under eligible
subloans incurred not more than 90 days prior to submission of the discount
application by the financial intermediary to FDI. IDA funds would be disbursed
against full documentation to cover 100 percent of total expenditures for
institutional technical assistance. The closing date for disbursements would
be June 30, 1985.
53.       FDI and participating intermediaries would satisfy themselves that
the procurement items are suitable for the investment projects and are reason-
ably priced, and that the beneficiaries have examined the main sources of
supply and were purchasing from the most advantageous source. Procurement
of consulting and training services would be open to international recruitment
and could be fully financed under the proposed credit, provided that the
consultants, terms and conditions of employment have been approved by IDA.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The project would enhance the development of an expanded and more
efficient industrial sector, including the generation of employment oppor-
tunities through the provision of medium and long term funds and technical
assistance. The project's built-in incentives favor medium and small enter-
prises. It is expected that the IDA credit would help finance at least 2,000
jobs in incremental direct employment, since initially most subprojects are
expected to be for expansion.  The Droject would a sc  support BRH's interest



- 17 -
rate DolicV; strengthen BRH's capabilities to evaluate the performance of
financial intermediaries and strengthen the professional capabilities of
ONAPI in providing technical assistance to small and medium enterprises.
The project would be a useful vehicle to intensify the dialogue between IDA
and the Government on industrial and financial policies. It would also
provide a means to build-up the capabilities of public financial institutions
which are expected to s5eek access to Fi)T rediscount onerations.
55.       She project is in many respects a pilot scheme.  The risks inherent
in creating a new faci_ity in Haiti are relatively high, especially risks
related to FDI's management and staffing, due to short suDply of skilled
professionals, and the necessary promotion of the project required at cue
outset. In addition, financial institutions have no experience in this type
of lending and despite built-in incentives, they may not put a strong effort
in promoting the scheme, thus slowing down project implementation. Also,
BRH's capabilities to supervise the banking community are still being devel-
oped and this mav cause delays in project implementation.  However, these
risks should be considerably reduced by: (a) the appointment of a competent
Director to head FDI; (b) close contact between FDI and lDA during project
implementation; and (c) IMF's current involvement in building up BRH's capa-
bilities to undertake its supervisory role. The need to keep project appraisals
very simple may constitute some additional risk insofar as ensuring that only
viable and economically beneficial projects are financed. However, FDI's
review function should increasingly reduce this risk and its effect on subloan
repayments. Although the exposure of total guarantees has been limited, the:
guarantee facility involves additional risks which are undertaken to Dromote
loans to small and new enterprises. The extensiorn services to be provided for
small and medium enterprises could enhance the success of these enterprises
and thus reduce the riskiness of their operations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORIT'
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Lite Republic of Haiti
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the Bank of the Republic of Haiti, and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately. Special conditions are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that: (i) FDI has
been provided with US$250,000 equivalent as the first payment under the
Government's contribution of US$1 million, and (ii) IDF has signed participa-
tion agreements, satisfactory to the Association, with at least two partici-
pating financial intermediaries. A condition of disbursement for the ONAPI
component would be that FDI and ONAPI have entered into a technical cooperative
agreement.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Associatior,.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recoimnend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: Ernest Stern
Aitachments
March 25, 1981



- 19 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  1  of  5
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RAITI                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV GRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               27.8
AGRICULTURAL        13.9                                  MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960   b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA  110)                    110.0        130.0      260.0                    1384.1                       726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTiON PER CAPITA
(KUIOGRANIS OF COAL EOJIVALENT)          ..         43.0       57.0                    1055.9                      699.4
7OPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
P(PUlATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         3.6          4.2        4.8
IRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6            19.8       23.8                      63.4                       28.9
POPULATION PRO JECTIONS
POPIILATION IN YEFAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          8.0
STATIONARY POPILATION  (MILLIONS)                            17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         131.0        153.0      173.0                      28.1                       61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANED    259.0          300.0      345.0                      81.7                      126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            42.0         41.5       43.5                      41.4                       45.5
15-64 YRS.                            55.0         54.0       52.9                      54.7                       51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.0          4.5        3.6                       3.9                        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.6          1.5        1.7                       2.7                        2.7
URBAN                                 4.4          3.9        4.1                       4.1                        4.9
CHUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        45.0         43.0       43.0                      34.8                       46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.0         18.0       17.0                       8.9                        16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.0        2.9                       2.5                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          .      .      .       16.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..        5.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
GIDEX NF FOOP PRODUCTION
PFR CAPITA (1969-71-1O0)            104.0        100.0       91.0                     106.9                       94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     88.0          87.0       93.0                     107.4                       92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             47.0         47.0       51.0                      65.6                       53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0         17.0       18.0                      33.7                       15.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        39.0         29.0       23.0                       8.4                       21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0            47.0       51.0                      63.1                       50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TH(O)SAND)                                         150.0c        ..                      66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POFPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       14.0                      65.9                       31.0
lRBAN                                  ..           ..       38.0                      80. 4                      66.8
RlRAL                                  ..           ..        7.0                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PGPI'LATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                      62.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                      79.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                      29.6
POPULATION PER PUYSICIAN            10600.0      11730.0    5936.0                     1849.2                    14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    11880.0          7460.0    3513.0                     1227.5                     3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1790.0       1370.0    1219.0                      480.3                     1141.5
URBAN                                  . .
RUJRAL                                 * *
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..                         .
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          3.6        4.4
URBAN                                  ..          2.2        4.2
RURAL                                  ..          4.3        4.5
AVERALt0 NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
T0TAL                                  *-          1.9
IIRBAN                                 ..          2.0
RURAL                                  ..          1.9
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..        2.9
SRBAN                                  ..           ..
VIlRA'                                 ..           ..



- 20 -                                          ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           2  of  5
EAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHFET
EAITI                              REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIG6TED Al5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT              rIEDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         49.0       71.0                     99. 7                      61.7
MALE                  50.0         55.0        ..                     101.0                      69.2
FEMALE                42.0        43.0         ..                      99.4                      51. 4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0         6.0         ..                     34.4                       20.6
MALE                   5.0          8.0        ..                      33.5                      29.2
FEMALE                 2. 0         3.0        ..                      34. 7                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  21.0          19.0        8.0                     38.2                        7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0         45.0         ..                     30.5                       36.6
SECONDARY                           13.0        18.0         ..                     14.5                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0        20.0       23.0                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          3.0        3.5                     43.0                       38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0        20.0       21.0                    245. 3                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.5          2.6        2.9                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        19.0       20.0                     63.3                       24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                       ..                        0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1967.1      2101.9    2340.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.4         47.4       46.0                     22.2                       38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               80.0        74.2       69.8                     37. 1                      54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.4          7.2        8.0                     23.5                       17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 55.8        50.6       50.5                     31.5                       38.8
MALE                                  59.7        55.2       55. 1                    48.9                       48.4
FEMALE                                52. 1       46.4       46.2                     14. 0                      29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.9        1.0                      1.4                        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF BOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      169.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      144.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..       82.0                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       73.0                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 *-          *-       55.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       78.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
L    The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithrnetic neans.  Coverage of countries
armong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1965-70 average.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



[CL                           C   'C
C CCC  CCC C C.  CCCC  CC CCC C-C CCC-CC   'CCV               CCCC   ' CCCCCCCCCCC
CCC  C C'CCCCCCCC C           'C                     C...CCC,,(COCC  CC,CCC   -'C              CC
*CCCC   CC4     CCCC'CCC  -CCCC,-'  CC.C,HC,CC             CCC  CC     CCCCCC  'C            %CCCCC             C,, CCCCCOCCC
CC' CC C'CC,CCCC..C CCCCCC CCC C CCCCCCCC'CCCCC CCC C C CCC C"C C CC; C CCCC' CC'CCCC'CCC
CCCC    CCCaC           F                                                                         LCC  CCC CCC  CC
CCC  CCCCCC-C  C  CC             CCCCCC   CICC'CCC  CCC   CC CCCCCCCCCCC  CC  CC  'C  C CCCCCC   0CC'
CCC  C CCC    CCC'CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC                          "CCC- C  C' ICC* CCC CCCCC-CC   C CC CC C CC   CCC' CCC C
CC CCC CCC  CCC C-CCC  C   C "CCCCCCC'CCC  CCCCdCCCC  CC-CC  CC CCC            CC C C-C    CCC   CC C C CCCC'CC'CC  CCCC  CCC  CCC CCC CCCCC CC CCC  C
C C-CC CCCCCCCCCCCC   CCCCCCC C' CC C"CCCCCCC,C CCCCCCC-  CC' C CCCC CC-                 CM    CCCCCC,-'CC-CCC CCCC-CC-  C  CC CCC'-'CCC       CCCCC  C-CC
CCC  CCCCCC-CCC  CC C   CCCCCC    C C C'CC5CC'  CCCCC   CC' CCC-- C&5Cg    CCC   CC'CC' CCCCCCCCCCC  CCC C    CCC CC  CC-CC  CCCCC   CC
CCCCCC   C-CC-CC CCCCC    CCCC  C- CCCC                C Il   :0CCrCC    rCCC            I C-C C-C.CCCC    C CCCCL   CC CC
CCCCC  CCCC C-CCCCCC-C  CCCCCCCCCC  CC -           'C' C C   CC C-CCCCCC                   CC CCC              CCCCCCCCC   CCC 'C' C CCC               CC
CCC CC C-CCC    CCCC'CCC'CCCC' C C CCCC-CCCCC  CCCCC  CC C CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC  C  - CC                 C  CC-CC  C--C  CK
CC-CC C C C-C C C CC-C   CC  C- C C C-. C CC'CC'CC-CCCCCCCC  CCC   CCCCCCCC C- C CCCC  CC C C C C  C C            CCCC CC C  C             -CC-C-C C"'C  C C C
- C'CCC' CCCCCCCCCCCCCC  fl  CCCC  CCC  CCC'CC    CC CCCCCCCC                      C CCCCC'C  CCC-C              CCC CCC  CCC         C'CCCCCCCC    CC
CC CC  CCC CCCCCCCC   CCCCCCCCCC C C-CC CCC  CCCCC   C C CCC  C-CCCCC'CC C- CCCCCCCCCC.C  CC CCC  C-CCC    C                           'C                  C
C       C-C   CCCCCCCCCC'CC-C CCCCCCCCC   CCC  CCCC'CCCCCCCCCC           C  CC  C-CC-C CC C  CCI C C  C  CCC    C C            C'  C  CCC
CCC C CCCCCC'C CC  CCC'C  CC CCC-CCC C   CCC C C' KC    CC CCCCCCCC CICCCCCC  C C  CCCCCCCCCC'C CCC   '-CCC C'C  CC    CC CCC
CCC  C  C C CCCCCCC CC-       -      -      CCCCCCC 'CC - C'C         'CCC- C-'CCCCCCCC      CCCCCCCCCCC  C-C  CC   CC'  C  CCC   CC C C C-CC-
C C-CC-CC  CCCCCC'CCCC    ..  C"C CC aCCC C- CCCCCC'CCC  C C  C-   CCCCC'CCC  CC  CC  CC C     C
C-CC C-CCCCCC CC-5  CCC Ci CC-CC0C  CC  CCCC  C      C-CC  CC CCC-C"CCC  CC C- C  CCCCCC   CC CCCCCC-C  CC C-                   CCC       CC   C C
CC-CC   CCC C C-C CCC                                               CCCCCCC-'C     C-CC    C     CCCCCCCCCCC-CCCCCCCC    C-               CCC   CCC-
C-  CC'C'C  C  CC    CCCCCC' C- CCCWCC'        CC CCCC'CC-CCC  I CCCCCCCCCC-C-CCCCCCCCC-    CCC  C-C' C- CC   CCCC  C  Ci
CC CC CC  'CCC   CC    C-CC CCCC CCCCC' C       C*CC*                 C- C C    CC   C  C-CC  COOC CCCCC   CC- C    CCC   CC C-CC
C     C CCCCCC-CCC  C-C    C CC-KCCCC   C CC-CC CC CCCCCCCCC   CCCCC-CC-CC-C'  'C I C C C-   C  C C C C C C C  C CCC C C C-CC C    C C C   C  CC   C C C  'C  C C
CiCC'CCC-C    C    CC C CCCC  CCCC CCCCC-CCC-C    C  C C  C-CC-C CCC' C' C       C CCCCC C-CCCCC'CCC    C CCCCCCCC                 CCC C    CC
CCC   C CC CC CCC-CCCCCCC  C'   CCCCCCC  CCCCC-CCC  C  C C  C 'CC' CC-CCCCCCCCCCC  C-C' C    "C              C CCC   CC' CCC  CCC
C C-CC'  CCC CCCC          --CCC CCCCCCC  CCC CCCCCCCCCCC    C ICCCCCCCiCCC C-CCC  C-C C C  C  C    CCCCCCCCCCC                  CCC   CCC C    CCCCCC  CCC
CC CC   CC'CCC-CCCC    C   CCCCCCCC'CCC  C-C 1CCCCCCCCC  C    CICCCCCC C CCCCC-C   C C C  C- CCC CCCCCCC- CCCCCCC  C C          CC-C   CCCCCCCCCC  CCC'
C-CC   CCCCCCCCC'C  C-C C  C-CCCCCCC            CC-CCC- C-CCC    CICCC C CC-' CCCCC  CCC       CCCCCC'CCCCCC C                CCCCCCCC  C
CCC-   C CCCCCC  C  'CCC DC   CCCCCCCCC  CCCC  CC C CCC   ICCCCC             I    CC C C  I CCCCCCCCCCCCCC  C-CC C             CC  C CCC   CC CCC  CCC
C  CCCCCCC  C-CCC- 'CCC'CCC  CC-CC  CI    CC CCCC  CC CCC   CC- C- C     CC CCCC  CCCCCCC'C C CCC- C   CCC  CC
CCCC   CgCCCCDC  C      C C C-CCCCC- C'CC-CC-CCC-CC- C  C C C- C  C-CC CCCCC-CCC         CCCC-CCCCCC-CC-CCCCC  C              CC-b    C
ICCCC  CCCCCCCC   C C  - CCC  CCC CC- CC CC CCC  CCCCCC-    C'CCCC   C C' C-C-C 'CC CC   CCCC-CC CCC  CC CCC CC   C    CCC   CC  CCC   CCC  C  C-CC
C CCC-C  CCCC CCC    C C   CC-C CC- CC C  C                      I C-CCC- C C C C  C C C  C CCCCC CCCCCCCCCCC  'CC  'C    CC   C CCC    CCCCC C CCC
CC     CCC   C CCC    CC-CC-CC  C-CCCC'C-C-CC-ICCC*CC-    C'CCC C-CCC    CCC  C         C      C'CCCC CC CCCC    CCC         CIC   C  C-CC  C-C CCC -CC
C C  CC  C- C  C-  CC-- C'C   CCCCC C CC CCCCC C    ICCC-CCCCCC'CC  CC- C            C CCCCC  C-C CCCCC C    C  C   CCC   CCC CC    CCCCC   C
C- CCC CCCC C CCC C C  CC.CC-CC  CCC- CCCCCC-' CCCC'CCCC  C C    CICCCC C    C CCC   C C'0CCCCCCCCCCCCCCC CCC   CC C   'C C   C CC    CC- CCCC  C C-C
C CC   CCCCCCCCCC  C C  CC CCCCCCCCC  CCCC C CCCCC 'CCC    CICCC CCC''CC  CCC CC  C C  C  CC CCC'CC C C 'CC   CCC-    CC   C-  CC-C   C CCCC  CCC
CCC    CCCCCC            CCC  CCCCCC CC' CCCC CCCCCC C C       C C  CC CCCCC-CCCCCCCCC-C  CCC  CCC C   C 'C   CCC   CC    C  CC'                       C-CC
C CC-CC CCCCCCC C CCC--'- CCCC-C CCCC CC- CC C' CaCCC C C CCC CC C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C- C C CC'CC.'C CCC C- C C CC-CC CC- C
C C  CCC    CCCCC- C CCCCCC CCC  C CCC      CC                        CCCCCCCCC    C CCCCC C  0CC-C               CC  CC
CCC    CCCCCCC C          C-.CC'CCCCC'C  "C   CCCCCCCCCCCC-    CCCCC  C   C'C  CC CC C  CCC-CCCC-CCCCCC    C  '-    CC  CC   CC   CCCCC   CCC
C CCC    CC CCC   C C       CC-C CC  C-CC CCCCCCCCC-CCCCC    C'CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC   CC CCCCCC  'CC                             CCC    CCCCCCCCCCC C"
CCC   CCCCC  CCC    C  C-C C-C CCCCCCC- C  CCC'CC  CCCC  C-C    CCCCCCCCCCCCC            C     CCC'CCCCCC'CCC   C  'C   CC                     C     C   'C
C CCC    CCCC  CCC  CCC  C'CCCC   C CCC        CC,-C'CC  C C C C CCC  C  C CCCC'CC'C  CCCCCC   CC C   -CC   CC CCC-  CCC-CCC  CC-'-
CCC-  C-CCCCC-CCCC         CCCCCCC C-CC CC-CCCC 'C   CC        CCCC  CCC  CCC  C- CC   C  CCC C  CCCCC C-   CC-                 C-C  CCCC    CCC CC CCC
C-C   C C  C-CC'    CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC- CC    CCCCC  C C- C C C          C- C  CCCCCCCCC CCC C  C-C              C-CCC'-'CCCCCCC'CC C-
CCC    C CCC     C C  CCC C 'CCCC  CC CC C CCCC-CCCC          CC CC-CC    C C C CCCCCCCCC CCC  CCCC'CCC    CC''CCC   C CCC- C-CC
C CCCCCCCCCC             CCCCC  CC-- C'CCCC CC-CC CCC  CC    CCCCCC   C C C C CC C          C CCC CC  CC CCCCC   C  'C   CCC  C-C C C  C CCCCC  CCC
CCC    CC C CCCCC  CC-   C  C-C C  CCC  CCCCCCCCCCCC-C-C    CCC--CCCC  C C           C C C  C C CCC CC CCC-C  CC    CC C    CC         C
CCC- CCCCC-C'CCCCC    CC  CCC    CC C 'CCC' C C    C C-'C-    CCC  CC-C  C  C  CCCC  C CCC' C CC'   C C   - CC  C'  C-CC  'CCC CC  C  'C
CC CC CCCCC CCC'CCCCCC ' C CCC CCCC-CCCCCC CCC C C C C-CC CC - CC CC C C C' C C C C C
CC CCCCCC  C C   CC C C CCC  C CCCCC'CCCCCCCCC    C-CC'CCCCC                 C-CCCCCCCCC-C C CCC CCC"C  'CC             CCC   CC  CC'    C CC
CCC   CCCC 'CCCCCC         CCCC  CCC CCC    C C C-CC-C-C   C    CCCCC-CCC  CCCCCCCCC'CCCCCCCCCCCCC-C-CCC                        C-CC   CCC                    C
CC-C  C CCC  CCC  C C   CCC-CCCCCCCCCCCCC  CCCCCC    CCCC  CC C    C CC CC    C  C CCC CCCC  CC CCCCC    CC C-    CC  CC  CC                   CCCCC  CCC  C
CC CCCCC-   C   CC    CC CCCC  CCCCCCCCCCCCCC    CCCC'C C C C C C CC C C  C C 'C CCCCC CC    C C  CC                   CC   CC  CC        CC'CCCC C C
CCC    C CCCCCC    C C   CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC  CCC  CCCC    CC'CCC-C  CCCCC C C C  C C-CC CCCCCCC'CCCC   CC C    C-                        -  -C    CCC  C CC-C
C'   CC CCCCCC  C C   CCC- CCCCC'   C' CCCCC'  CC-    CCCCCCC  C-                     C      C CCCCCCCCCCCCC           C C    CCC   C   -C      C CCC  CCC
C     CCCCCCCC   CC    C CCC  CCCCCCCC CCCC   CCC               CCC'CC    CCCC-C-C    CCCCCCCCCCCCCC                   'C    CCC  C-C   C        CC   CC
CC     CC   CCCCC-         CCC- CCC    C  CCCC-CC    CCCC    CC-CC' CC    C C C C   'CCCCCCCCC   CCCC'C                  C     CC  CC  'CC
CCC C-CC   C            C C-C 'CC C           C-PCCC    C CC C      C C C- CCC      C- I C- CCCC  CC   CCCC             CC  CCC CC
CC   C   C C    C C-C- C- 'C  CC C             CC-C      CC C      C C ' CC         C  C C CC CC   CC'C                '   '-CC         CC
C  C   C  C                C-  '  C            C  C      C   '     C  '   '         C   C  C  '  C  'C
C-   C    C                                                                                                                     '       C C
C                                                 ,C                               5                                          C C
CC   C      C   C  C    CC    IC-      V      C       C   C   C     C       C   C-
C    CC                C  C C-           IC'      'Ci                                 [as    C         CC                 CCC    C C
CCCCCCC                                                             C C[CC
CCC C CCC C C        C CCCCCCCC             'CCC-CCCCC C C CCCCCCi  CC  C  C     C       CCC  CCCCCCCCC  CC- CC C            C CCJC&
CC'CCCCCCC  C CCC CCCCC- C CCCCC-CCC  CCCC CCCCCCJCCC  CC -C
LCCC;CCCC;               C C C C   CC'CCCCC C-C            CCCC-CC'C CCCC  C-CCCCCCCCCCC CCCC-  CCCCCCC C-CCC CC CCCCCC  CC CC C'CCC-  CC
I              CCCC CCC,       C C  ICCCC  C  C'                       C- CCCCCCCCC C-CC-C CCCCCC  CCCC C    CCC  CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC   C
CCC'CCCCCCCCCCC- [CL                                               CCCCCCCC
CC-CC CC         CC- CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC CCCCCCC  CC CCCCCCCC    CCCCCCCC-CC  CCC
CC-C CCC-  C CC    CCCCCCC C C C 7CC 'CCC    CCQFCCC             CCCC  CCC'C -CC CCC CCC    C C C CCCCCCC   C C C C C- C C CCC  C C C C C  C C
IC C C CC-CC C                  C   I         CC                        CCCCCCC'-          CCC-
C CC C CC C-C C-CC-CC  C C C                CCC-C  CCC CCCCC-CCCC
CCC-'CCC   CC C C C C  CCVCCChC-C             CCCCCCCCCCCCC                  -C  CCC      C  CC       CCCC          C         +4                CCC
C CCCCCCCC             -          CCC CC' CC              CCCCCCCC CICCCCCCC   CCC-CCC C         4       CCC
CC                                                                                                                             CC
CC        CC            C            CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC                   C CCCCCCC   ' CCCCCCICCCC                      CCCC   CC
C C C C C C C 'C                              C C   C C   C C-  C C   C C C   C C C  CC-CC- CCC   CC  C  CCC-CCCC    C-C
CCCCCiC                                                              CCCC'CC         CCCCCCC          CCCCCC    CCCC-CCCCCCCC
- C C C C C C C                    CCCCCC   C C C- C C C C C C CC   CCCCCCC'CCCCC C C  C C C C C C CC
CCCCIC I. CCCCCCCCCCCC C C-CCCCCC C ICC CCCCCCC C CCCIC
CCC C 'C-CC:C                                 CCC-CCCC   CCC CCC- CC   C CCCC  C-CC'C   CCCC C C  C C-   'C
CCCC'CCCC-CCC   CC'CC  CC-CC    CC-CCCC CC
C CCCCCC.  CC  CCCC  CCCC' CCC                                      CICCCC-C:  CCCCCCC              CCL C        C-CC-CC  C             C
C CC CCCC'C CCICCCC CCC
- CCCC'C CCCC C-C CC CCCC-CC CCC Ci
CCC CCCCCC'CC C CCCCCCCCC CCCC CCC CCC
CCC CC j'
CC   - C CC                                   CCCC CCC'C  CC CCCC C          CCC CCCC   CC CCCCCC'CCCC-C CCCC   CC
C C C C C C C CCC CC C C-CCC CC-C CC CCC CCCC' C-CCCC-' CCCC C-CC- CC C
CCC              'CC  CCC                           CCC' CC   C-CC CC C CC CCC   CCC    CC CCCC' C  CCCCC'CCC-C ' CCCC  CC    C
CCC  CCC             C- CC CC'                                      C'C  CCC- CCCCCCCCC  C  C C CCCC  CC-    C CCCCC  C C-C-
CC<CCCC7                                                   C                        CC                      CCCC
CCC C- CCCC CC'CC CCC C C CC CC C-C CC C CCCC C CCC - CC CCCCCC CC CC CCC' C
L                       CCC   CC
CCC   CC               CCCCC   C                          CCC  CC  CC C'CCCC  CCC CC C C    CCC   C         'C     C CCCCCCC-C-
CC- 'C    C                                                  CC-C C C-  CC CCCCC  C CC CCCCCCC           CC           CCCCC 'CC   CCC'C  CC
C-   CCC                                   C C C C C C CCC- CCCC       CC     C CCC   CCCC-CCCC C C C C C C C C  C C-
I C C C C C C C C C 'CC C  C CCC C'CCCCCCCCC C-C C C
CCCC   CC   CC-   CCC  C C CCC                                                     Ci          CC
CCCCCC  'CCC              CC-CC CCCC             C C CCCC'-C C C   C  C  CC C  C CCCCC    CCC  CCIC C-CC    CCCC-'CC  CCCCC C CC    C
CC CCC C-C CCC C C C C
C- -C  CCC             C  C      C           C CCC CC   CC  CC  C-I   CC          C CCCCCC    -CC  C CCCCC C  CCCCCCC-CCCCCC CCCC   CC
C C CC C'CCC 0CC-C CCCCCCCCCCCCCCC-CC C CCCCCCCC C- CC -CC CC C CCC CCC CCC CC- CCC CC
CCCC CCC CCL CCC CCC CCC CC CC CC-CC CCC-CCCCC CCC CC'CCC CCC C CCCCCCC 'CCCC C
CC                                C                                     CCCCCCCCCCC '-C           CCC- CC C C    CC-CCCCCCC
CC-CC  CiC             CZI' ii    CCC         CCOCCCCCC       CC    CCCCC  'C  CC  CC    CCC  CC CCC   CCC-CC'CCCC    CCCC   C
CC C CCCC CCCC - CC' C CCC CCC CC C CCCCCCC
C                                      C CC CC           --    C CCCCC  CCCCC  C CC       C C' C CCC        C    C  CCCCC CC  CC
CCC              CC- C CC             C-CCC-CCCC-C C           C C-CC- C  CC'CCCCCCC    CCCC C                 ' CCCCCCCC CCC'   CC-C- C CCC
CC CC CC C CCC'CCC CC-C C - C CC
C  C- CCC              CCCC CCCC   C-C    CCCCCCC'-  CCCC C'  CC  CCCC  CCC   CCC'CC    CCC  CCC' C-CC  CC C-C CC'CCCC'CC CCC-C    C
CCC CCCC CC-C C CC CCC C-j CCC C' CC CC CC-C C C C C C C CbC CCC CCC CC CCC'CC C
CCC CCC               CCC' C C C C  CC    C CCC CCC C C  CC-' C   C  -CC-CCC  C C C C C CCC'   C1C  CC-  CCC   CCCCC-CCCCCC C CC-  CC-
CCC- 'CC C CC C C ''CCC CC C C CC CCCC C CCCCC CC1'-' CC C C-C CCC-C CCC CCCC CC-CC CC
CCC   CCC-C-    C               CC' C CC--C             CCCCCCCCCCCCC-CCCC   CCCCC  'C   C    CCC   CC'  C-CCC C C CC CC-CC  C C  C
CC-C C-CCCC CC C C CC CC CCC CCC CCCC CCCC CCC C CCCCCC CCC CCC CC CCCCCC C CCCCCCC CC
C CC C C               CCCC-  CC'              C C C-- C C C  C C CC  CC C -C  CCOCCCCCCCCC    CC   CCC CCC   - CCCC  CCCCCC
CC CCCCCCCCCC                   CCC   CCC              CCCC  CC-C CCC   CC  CC C'CC   C-CC CCC  CC       CCC  CCC  CCC-   CCC-CCCCC CCC   CC-CC     C-CC  CC
C CC CCCCC CC CCCCCCCCC CC-Cl CC- CCCC C CC C CC CCCCCCCC CC CCC CCC CC-C-CC CC CCC CCC CC
CC  C  CCCC  CCC    CC   C :1CC    CC  CC       CCCCCCCCCCCC C          C-CC    - CC      CC CCCC;CCCj CCC-CC   CC
C CC- C CCC CC- C- CCCC CC C-C C- C CC CC CCC-C ii -; CC-C C CCCCCCCC-C CC C C CCC C -CCC C C
C C C  C C                       C                                                                                  CCCCCCCCC
CCC C- C-             "'CC- CCC C            C C C- CCCCCCCCC    CCC' CCC  C   CCC-CCCCC       C  CCC  C C    C C-CNCCCCCCC  CC-C  CCCCC   CC
CC   CCC'CCC- CCC-   C-C    C CCCCC   CCC             C' C CCC  CCC'CCC   C  CC -C  CC'CCCC  CC'
CCCCCC  CCC               C CC-  CCCC           CC' CCCC-'C CCCCC CC  CC   'CC  CC   CCCCCC        CC CC   CCC        CC-C-CC C C C C CCC  'CC- C  CC  C CC CCCC  CCC  CCC   CCC   CC    CCCCCCCC C-C-  C CC  C  CCC- CCC    C1CCCCCC   C CC  CC CCC
CCC   CCC-C  CC                CCC   C- 'C 'CCC    C-C'  C CC CCC   CC  CC CC CC CCCCCCCCC               CC C CC CCC      CCCCCC CC-C CCC-C
C CC  CC'              CC-C  C C             C CCCCC   CCCC  C   CC CC CC CCC CCC-CC             CC CC-C  CC     CCCCCCC-C    CCCCCC   CC
rDrl
CCCC CCCCC CCC C CCCCCCCC C CC C CC- CC CCCCC-CC CC C C C CCCCCC C CCCCCC CC
CCC CCC CCC-C C CCC CCCC 'C C CC C CC CC-C-CCCC' C-CC-CC CCCCCCCCCCC C CC
C C C C C C            C C CC CC C           C CCC  C-C  CCC   C  CC CC C'C  CCC   CCCC             CC   CCC    CCCC  C
C'CCCCCCC       CCCC   CC'
CC   CCC                                     gCC'CCCCCC  CC               CC CCC'CCCCCC          C-CCC  CCC    C-CCC-CCCCC                              N
CC C CCC C CCC- CCC C CCCCCCCCC CC CCCC CC CCCCCCCCC CC CCC CCC' CCCCCC-CCCCCCCCCC. C CC
I CCCC                  CCC'CCCCCC                           CC CC  C-C- CC CC C C CCCCC   C      CC CC    CC                  CCCCCCC
'CC C CCCC CCCC C CC-CC CCCC-CCC CC CC CC CC ' CCCCC- C CCC C C CC CCC-CCC CCC C
F- C   CCC    CC    CCCCCCC                    CCCCCC C C C C CC   CCCC  CC C CC C-C              CC CCC  C       CCC CCC-CCC-C-CCCC   C C
C C CCCCCCC-C CCCCCCCCCCC-CCCCCC CC-CC CC CCC C- C-C CCCC C CC CC
C-C C  C  '           CCC  CCCCC      C'C
CCC-  CCC             CCCC -CCC             C CC CC   C  'CCC   C  CC CCC CCC  CCC C           CC CCC  CCC    CC C CC K CCC CC-CC  C  -
CC CC CC C CCC- C C-CCCCC C C CC CC CC ' CC C-CC- CC CCC CC C CCCC
CCC  CCC             C-C   CC'               C CCCC  CCCC  CC    C CC' C-C CCC  CC CCC        CC CCC  CC     CCCCC CC-CCC C- C-C CC  C             Ft'i
CCC CC CCCCC -CC C CC-C CCCC C C CC C 'CCC-C -CC- C - C C-CC CC CCCC 'C
C-CC  CCC             CC C 'C                  CCC  C     CC C-C    C  C-C C CCCCCCC C         C' C C C-5    CCCCC MCCC  CCC  C
CCC C C CCCC C CCCCCC C CC CC-C-C C-CC 'C
IC   CCCC                CCC CC                  C-TIC C    CC-        C-  CC   'C C-CC    C      C  C- C CCC         CCCC    C.CC                     ICPI
C-     CCCCC-CC
CC ' CC' C C' I C CCC



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
HAITI - ECONOMIC DATA-I
GROSS NATIONAL PROUICT IN 1979                                                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Million                 %                                              1965-70             1970-75            1975-79
GNP at market prices           1,259.8                 100.0                                                -0.1                3.7                 4.1
Gross Domestic I-veatment        180.8                  14.4                                                11.6               13.8                 2.5
Gross National Savings 2/          32.5                  2.6                                                42.3               15.9               -41.7
Current Account Balance          -63.3                   5.0                                                 -                  -
Export of Goods, NBS             190.0                  15.1                                                 4.4               -3.7                 2.2
Import of Goods, NFS             324.0                  25.7                                                4.4                 0.9                 9.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Walue Added                                               Labor Force                                            V.A. per Worker
US$ Million                 B                             US$ Million                  7                           US$ Million                  7,
Agriculture                      507.1                  39.8
Industry 3/                      282.9                  22.2
Services                         484.2                  38.0
Total/Average                1,274.1                 100.0                                 ,.                                                       .. .1700.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Gover ment 4/                                                Central Government
(0 Mion)               /. of GDP                                    (G Million)           7. of GDP
1979           0979           1975                                  1979           1979            1975
Current Receipts                              877.1            13.8           13.1                                 588.0            9.2             9.3
Currant Espenditure-                          803.8            12.6           11.7                                 567.7            8.9             8.2
Current Surplus/Deficit                         73.3            1.2            1.4                                  20.3            0.3             1.1
Capital Expenditures                          574.6             940            7.5                                 436.4            6.9             5.5
External Assistance (net) 5/                  426.5             6.7            5.2                                 388.5            6.1             4.5
MONEY, CREDIT ANB PRICES
1970          1975          1976          1977           1978             1979
(Million G Outstanding Snd Period)
Money and Quasi Money                                198.2         583.4         779.9          930.6        1jl59.7         1,353.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                         189.2         318.0         346.3         288.9           332.0           393.2
Bank Credit to Priv-te Sector                         65.3         451.3         519.7         657.9           791.5           921.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                     10.0          14.7           15.9          16.8           19.9            21.2
Ogoesumer Price Index (1965 . 100)                    114.6         199.9         218.7          234.9          228.8           250.3
Annual Percentage Changes it
Consumer Price Index                                   3.3          18.0            9.4           7.4           -2.6             9.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          -2.1          10.4           8.9           16.6           14.9            18.4
Bank Credit to Priv-te Sector                          9.9          45.3          15.2           26.6           20.3            16.5
Note:  All co-ersions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rats prevailing during tho period co-sred.
1/ Data refae  to FY ending September 30.
2/ Dons not include current transfers.
31 Mining, manufacturing, public utilities nd construction.
4/ Consolidsted accounts of Central Goverensest and Public Enterprises.                                                                            LCIDC
1/ Net disbursenents of I.ass and grants.                                                                                                          Jonuary 30. 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
HAITI - COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAYM1ENTS                                                                                   MERCHYANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
1975       1976        1977        1978        1979                      -S$tiliio                                                7
(8$ Million) 
Export of Goods, NFS                  105.7       140.6       173.9       199.2       189.6            Coffee                                          53.0            39.3
Import of Goods, NFS                 -165.1      -218.8      -262.8      -293.7      -323.5            Sugar                                            1.0             0.7
Recoorce Gap (deficit--              - 59.4       -78.2      -88.9        -794.5                       Essential Oils                                   8.0
Sisal                                            1.3             1.0
Interest Payments (net) 1/             -7.0       -7.2        -12.1      -14.7        .14.3            Bauxite                                         17.7            13.1
Other Factor Payments (net)            ...          ..          ..          ..          ..             Asseebly Industry (net)                         18.2            13.5
Net Transfere                          39.4        65.0        63.5        67.9        85.0            Small Industries and Handicraft                 16.1            11.9
Balance on Current Account             27.0   -20.3 -            37.5                 -63.3            All Other Comnodities                           19.5            14.5
Total                               134.8          100.0
Direct Foreign Inveateent               2.7         6.8         8.0        10.0        15.0
Net MLT Borrowing                      19.7        24.8        62.5        48.1        38.2            EXTERNAL DEBT, SEPTEMBER 30, 1979            US$Million
Disbursemsents                       24.9        33.3    *'5I            57.3       tZ
Amortization                          5.2         8.5         8.3         9.2         6.7            Public Debt, including guaranteed             208.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Ocher Grates n.e.i.                   -18.9         7.9      -19.3         -2.6        26.3            Total Oustanding and Disbursed
Incre-se in Re.eeves (.)             -23.1         18.8        13.6        14.2        16.2
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FORt 1979
Gross Reserves                         12.7        28.3        35.9        46.8        53.1
Net Reserves                          -23.7        -4.9         8.6        22.9        39.0            Public Debt, including Guaranteed                4.1
Non-Guaranteed Briv-ta Debt
Fuel end Related Material2                                                                             Total Outstanding  nd Disbursed
Imports                             12.9         17.1        23.6        24.5         n.e.
Export.                               -           -           -           -                          IBRD/IDA LENDINC (SEPTEMBER 305  1979)    SS$Million
IBRD            IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbur.ed                       -45.3
sip'. 19O 1                                                                                           Undisbure-d                                      -              48.2
US$1.0  - G5.00                                                                                        Outetending including Undieburend                -              93.5
G1.00 - US$0.25
1/ Includes a11 factoc services.
-not applicable                                                                                                                                          IDC
not  vaRilable                                                                                                                                          January 30, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1981)
------$ Million-------
(less cancellations)
Loan or
Credit                                                     Bank
Number       Year        Borrower           Purpose       Amount      IDA     Undisbursed
One loan and four credits have been fully disbursed          2.6      46.4
618-HA        1976     Republic of Haiti   Education                   5.5          1.0
675-HA        1977     Republic of Haiti   Rural
Development             10.0          7.2
757-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Water Supply                6.6          3.4
770-HA       1978      Republic of Haiti   Education                  10.0          8.7
807-HA        1978     Republic of Haiti   Transporta-
tion                    15.0         3.3
895-HA        1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                      16.5         13.8
Total                              2.6    110.0          37.4
of which has been repaid    2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                        0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             110.0 1/
Total undisbursed                                        37.4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1981)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
C.   EEC SPECIAL ACTION FUND
4-HA          1979     Republic of Haiti   Power                       6.0          3.3
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECT IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 618      First Education Project; $5.5 Million Credit of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
'ihe project is about 14 months behind schedule due to original
start-up delays in school design and in contracting for construction, and
subsequently because of climatic conditions and six months of administrative
problems, including a shortage of counterpart funds. Some 50 (of 65) rural
schools have been completed and are in use, and the rest will be completed
by the end of September 1981. The three teacher training colleges will be
completed by June 1981. There has been considerable progress in the educa-
tional aspects of the project, including curricula revisions, teacher training
and communal use of school facilities. The problem of counterpart funds has
been largely resolved between the Ministries of Finance and of Education.
Credit 675      Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Substantial progress was made in 1980. The Water Supply component
is proceeding well and will be expanded and agricultural field trials have
been successfully carried out and will be expanded. Administration and
staff problems in the Organisme de Developpement du Nord, the project agency,
have been largely resolved, but lengthly procedures for approval of local
expenditures and delays in the provision of counterpart funds still continue.
On the other hand, disbursements are well behind schedule because of delays
in feeder road construction, irrigation rehabilitation and rural credit
components. Weaknesses continue in the extension service provided to ODN by
the Ministry of Agriculture. Some progress has been made recently in feeder
road construction.
Credit 757      Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; $6.6 Million Credit of
January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is about 18 months behind schedule because of original
delays in the appointment of consultants and delays in issuing bid documents
and the subsequent need to rebid for three of the seven project towns, for
which satisfactory bids were received in July. Technical assistance from
PAHO is proceeding well. Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) is considering
financing two of the three towns included under a related UNCDF project (which
IDA is administering) because of a shortage of UNCDF funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit 770      Second Education Project; $10 Million Credit of March 16,
1968; Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project is about a year behind schedule
because of initial start-up delays; conflicts between the Minister of
Education and the then-Project Director; changes in the consultants'
contract and delays in purchasing cement on a tax-free basis. A revised
construction schedule still allows completion of school construction
(46 units of various types) by the original Closing Date. The educational
component is proceeding satisfactorily. Performance of the Project Unit,
and of consultants, is also satisfactory.
Credit 807      Fifth Transportation Projct-,_ $15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1978; Closing Date:
December 319 1981.
(a) Road Component: This includes construction of 54 km of roads in
the Northern plain9 13 km in the Southwest, construction of two
bridges and preinvestment studies of high priority projects in
the transport sector. Work is substantially on schedule and no
serious problems have been encountered.
(b)  Coastal ShippinR Ports Compon_ent:  This includes construction of
tT , coastal shipping :orts in the Northwest and Southwest and of
a main coastal shipping port in Port-au-Prince. Construction is
a7out 10 months behind schedule largely because of hurricane damage
to the contractor's facilities in the Dominican Republic (his
home base) last year and a delay in obtaining permits to transport
dynamite.  This has now been resolved.  Training of coastal shipping
port staff has been rescheduled to coincide with the estimated
completion of port construction. M2nagement advisory services are
proceeding well, though a st-_dy cn the development of coastal
shipping was delayed by the illness of consultant's staff.
Credit 895         Second Power Project:  $16 Million Credit and US$6 Million
and EEC            Special Action Credit of May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
Action Credit 4   April 24, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
These two credits were declared effective almost 11 months after
signing because of delays in contract award to the lowest evaluated bidder.
These delays arose because of opposition to the award within Electricite
d' Haiti (EdH).  The contract with suppliers w2as sigred in April 1980, and
with the new consultants, in June 1980. Edll9s financial performance is
satisfactory. Government arrears due to EdH increased from $1 million at
appraisal, to about $1.8 million before declining to $1.2 million. EdH's
Chairman is taking steps to ensure settlement of bills as rendered.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identification:
(1) Project prepared by: Ministries of Finance and Economic Affairs
and of Commerce and Industry, BRH,
consultants and Bank staff.
(2) Initial request for IDA financing: November 1979.
(3) First mission to consider project: November 1979.
(b) Appraisal mission departure: July/August 1980.
(c) Negotiations completed: February 1981.
(d) Planned effectiveness date: July 1981.
II.  Special IDA Implementation Action:  None.
III. Special conditions: Agreements were reached regarding the following
matters:
(a) As special conditions of effectiveness, that (1) the Government has
made a first payment equivalent to US$250,000 FDI under its contribu-
tion of US$1 million equivalent, and (2) IDF has signed participation
agreements satisfactory to IDA with at least two financial interme-
diaries (paras. 41 and 42);
(b) as a condition of disbursement for the technical assistance
component with ONAPI, that it has entered into a technical
cooperation agreement satisfactory to IDA, with FDI (para. 44);
(c) the Government would bear that part of FDI's administrative costs
not covered by its revenues through December 1983 (para. 42);
(d) IDA and BRH would review FDI's policies, terms of discounts and
conditions of sub-loans, including resource usage as between the
different industrial subsectors prior to the withdrawal from the
Credit Account of one-third of the amount allocated for sub-
loans (para. 44);
(e) BRH would make available up to US$1 million equivalent as bridge
financing to meet FDI's short-term requirements (para. 42);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) The Project Advisory Committee's members would be appointed,
and its by-laws approved by the Committee, not later than
September 30, 1981;
(g) Public financial institutions interested in using FDI's
resources but that do not meet its eligibility criteria
would be required to prepare and implement a program accept-
able to IDA and to FDI to reduce their portfolio affected by
arrears to agreed limits (para. 41);
(h) BRH would maintain interest rates charged by Intermediaries
at levels sufficient to reflect market conditions and
inflation, (para. 45), and
(i) The first four operations of each Financial Intermediary
would be subject to IDA's approval (para. 46).



L                                                                          OV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
N VJ)Q                   )IIN V7I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             A W  NVNrU
!ff4VS-.)OJSA-W>>



