LOCUEyp       CREDIT NUMBER 1131 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Credits Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1131 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated / Z"-Ct    00, 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI (hefeinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Bank of the
Republic of Haiti with the Borrower's assistance, and as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Bank
of the Republic of Haiti the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(C) by letter addressed by the Association to the Secretary
of State for Finance of the Borrower on January 21, 1980, the
Association granted an advance to the Borrower in the amount
of $375,000 for the preparation of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advance, the amount
thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
(E) The Association is willing, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to make the Credit available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and the Bank of the
Republic of Haiti.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements


﻿-2-
of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions):
(a) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"14. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement."
(b) The words "and for Investment Projects" are added before
the period at the end of Section 5.03.
(c) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (f)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval or
requests for authorization to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respoct of any portion of the Credit shall
have been received by the Association, or having been so
received, shall have been denied or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from
the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(d) The words "and the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(e) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-3-
(a) "BRH" means the Bank of the Republic of Haiti, the
central bank of the Borrower, established pursuant to the Law
of August 17, 1979 published in Le Moniteur No. 72 dated Septem-
ber 11, 1979.
(b) "IDF" means the Industrial Development Fund created and
operating under the Decree of the Borrower of March 20, 1981
published in Le Moniteur No. 25 dated March 26, 1981.
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the BRH, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time.
(d) "Intermediary Bank" means any commercial or development
bank established under the laws of the Borrower and which has
entered into participation agreement with the BRH under Section
2.07 of the Project Agreement.
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan or creeit made or proposed
to be made by an Intermediary Bank to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project and to be refinanced out of the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to the IDF.
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
an Intermediary Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan to finance capital investments, working
capital and technical services, or any of them.
(h) "Gourde" and "G" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(i) "foreign curency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(j) "Statement of Policy" means the policies and procedures
of the IDF adopted and approved by the Board of Directors of the
BRH on March 24, 1981, as amended from time to time.
(k) "ONAPI" means the Borrower's National Office for
Industrial Promotion.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to five million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,,00,000) for use by the IDF.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Section, the Project Agreement and Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to the IDF by the Borrower.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
pay to itself the amount required to rr!pay the principal amount
of the advance referred to in paragraph (C) of the preamble
to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of
the authorized amount of such advance shall be automatically
cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. The IDF is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower and the BRH of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1991, and ending November
15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on November 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the BRH to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the BRH to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the
Credit or the equivalent thereof as a contribution to the perma-
nent resources of the IDF under conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall not, without the prior approval
of the Association, modify the conditions referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of
its political subdivisions, or any of its agencies or instrumen-
talities, or any agency or instrumentality of any political
subdivision, to take, any action which would prevent or materially
interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the performance
by the BRH of any of its other obligations under the Project
Agreement, and shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable


﻿-6-
action which shall be required on its part in order to enable the
BRH to carry out the Project and to perform such other obliga-
tions.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall until September 30, 1983
furnish to the IDF promptly as needed such funds as shall be
required to cover that part of its administrative costs not
covered by its revenue and shall also make available to the IDF's
resources, in addition to the proceeds of the Credit, amounts
equivalent to $1,000,000 as follows: $250,000 prior to the Effec-
tive Date and the balance as requested by the IDF, but in any
event, prior to October 31, 1983.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that not later than
September 30, 1981 the members of the Advisory Committee estab-
lished under the law referred to in Section 1.02 (b) of this
Agreement have been appointed and its By-laws have been adopted.
The Committee will be charged with ensuring the cooperation of
governmental agencies in the carrying out of the Project, exami-
ning overall industrial and credit policies and exchanging views
with the IDF on technical assistance programs for Investment
Enterprises. The secretariat of the Committee will be ensured by
the IDF.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of the BRH under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Decree-Law described in paragraph (b) of Section
1.02 of this Agreement shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
the IDF; and
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the BRH or the IDF -or for the suspension of its oper-
ations.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and the BRH; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has made the first payment to the IDF
as scheduled under Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(b) the BRH has entered into participation agreements with
two Intermediary Banks as provided in Section 2.07 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and deliv-
ered on behalf of, the BRH, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the BRH in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The datee  i   ad.ve,h/?*iis hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Article IV of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, the Secretary of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:
SECRETAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
FINANCES ET DES AFFAIRES
ECONOMIQUES
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOFT the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
LatidgAmerica and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Percentage of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans granted            4,830,000        86% of dis-
under Part A of                              bursements
the Project                                  by IDF
(2) Technical Assistance,                         100%
Part C of the
Project:
(a) BRH's Super-              90,000
vision Depart-
ment
(b) IDF                      210,000
(c) ONAPI                     130,000
(3) Refunding of                  310,000         Amount due
advance for                                  under Section
preparation                                  2.02 (b)
of the                                       of this
Project                                      Agreement
(4) Unallocated                    130,000
TOTAL        5,700,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (3) is
insufficient for, or in excess of, the amount required, adjustment
will be made by allocations from or to Category (4).
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to April 14, 1981, or (ii) assistance to ONAPI
under Part C of the Project until the BRH, acting through the IDF,
and ONAPI have entered into a technical cooperation agreement
satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to support the Borrower's policy
of promoting industrial development and includes the following:
Part A:   Sub-loans
The refinancing by the BRH, acting through the IDF, of
Sub-loans approved by the IDF granted by Intermediary
Banks to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects
under the conditions set forth in the Schedule to
the Project Agreement and their supervision by the
BRH acting through the IDF.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
The design and administration by the BRH, acting through
the IDF, of a program of technical assistance to small-
and medium-scale industrial enterprises.
Part C:   Organizational Development
The strengthening of the management and operations
of the IDF, the Supervision Department of the BRH
and the ONAPI, including training of staff and the
employment of consultants and experts for the purpose.
Part C of the Project is expected to be completed by Janu-
ary 31, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


