Document of
The World Bank   FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2329b-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
URUGUAY
April 5, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                  =  Peso (N$)
US$1                           =  N$ 5.49
N$ 1                           =  US$0.18
N$ 1 million                   =  US$182,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric                             British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                    =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)             =  2.205 pounds
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT          Average Daily Traffic
AFE          Administracion de los Ferrocarriles del Estado
AID          Agency for International Development
ANCAP        Administracion Nacional de Combustibles, Alcohol y Portland
ANP          Administracion Nacional de Puertos
CIF          Cost, Insurance and Feeight
CNPA         Comision Nacional de Politica Aeronautica
DAC          Direccion General de Aviacion Civil
DIGAN        Direccion General de Aeropuertos Nacionales
DNT          National Directorate of Transportation
DODE         Directorate of Economic Development Works
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
MTOP         Ministry of Transport and Public Works
PLUNA        Primeras Llneas Uruguayas de Navegacion Aerea
RAM          Road Analy8is Model
SEPLACODI    Secretarta de Planificacion, Coordinacion y Difusidn
TAMU         Transportes Aereo Militar Uruguayo
TPU          Transport Planning Unit
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
Vialidad     National Highway Directorate
vph          Vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
URUGUAY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .... ... .. . . . . . . . ..............................  1
A. General                           . .    1
B.   The Transport System ..............*........ 0-..g*             1
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination ......o   ........          4
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..*... o    ......................o...o....o   6
A.    The Highway Network ............. .......                      6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
and Regulations  ooo ..... ....... .    .. .... ..  ......   6
C.   Highway Administration             9............  .........     9
D.   Highway Planning and Engineering  9... ...o    .........        9
E.   Highway Financing . ....... . . . . . . . . .  ............. .....  . ..    10
F.   Highway Construction . ...... .o..o..          . ..........    10
G.   Highway Maintenance . ....... . . ...  .........   ..........    10
III.   PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ......   o..    12
IV.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ..o.o.... ... ..    ...o..  . ..    .......    13
A.   Objectives and General Description .... .....  ........    13
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing  .-. -    .........    13
C.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring            ..........    16
Do   Risks . .......................      ............ooo ....... .o..o....    17
V.   RECONSTRUCTION OF ROUTE 8  ..o...             ..17
A. Description .17
B. Preparationrand Engineering                                      18
C.   Consultant Services for Supervision  .........o ...    19
D.   Project Impact . ............ . .... . ........ . ..19
E.   Economic Evaluation ..o.o. .    ..       .. . .19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Uruguay during August/September 1978. The mission comprised Messrs.
C-H. Mumme (Economist) and L. Revuelta (Engineer). The report has been
edited by Miss V.R. Foster.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   TRANSPORT SECTOR MANAGEMENT ............................    22
A.   Preparation of a Four-Year Program of
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Roads
and a Bridge Improvement Program ................    22
B.   Engineering of Roads Identified Under (A) for the
First Two-Year Tranche ..........................      24
C.   Transport Planning . .............................. .    25
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............. .. ....    25
TABLES
2.1      Highway Network (1976)  ...............................       27
2.2      Gasoline and Gas-Oil Consumption.......................    28
2.3      Highway Classification:  Geometric Standards .........        29
4.1      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....................    30
5.1      Design Standards of Route 8.........................          31
5.2      Traffic  Flows   .............................. . .......  ..  32
5.3      Economic  Evaluation  ................................   .    33
5.4      Incremental Analysis......                                    34
ANNEXES
1.     Consultant Services for Civil Works Supervision:
Outline of Terms of Reference    ........... ......    35
2.     Vehicle Operating and Time Costs for Selected Sections..    39
3.     Four-Year Program for Rehabilitation, Strengthening
and Reconstruction of Roads and Bridge Improvement
Program:  Outline of Terms of Reference        ........    45
4.     Technical Assistance for Transport Planning:
Outline of Terms of Reference      ...............    49
5.     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   53
CHARTS
I.     Organization of the National Highway Directorate (Vialidad)
II.     Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 14225 - Uruguay Second Highway Project



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Uruguay is a small fertile country with a population of less than
three million, bordered by the two largest countries in South America,
Argentina and Brazil. The country is endowed with a relative abundance of
land, well suited to agriculture and grazing, and a pleasant temperate climate.
The concentration of Uruguay's commercial activity and population in the
Capital of Montevideo is reflected in the country's transport system. The
interior, with relatively flat terrain, main rivers at boundaries, and low
density agricultural activity, offered no obstacles to development of radial
roads and rail networks, extending north, east and west from the metropolitan
region around the seaport of Montevideo.  Of the total freight traffic actually
carried within the country in 1976, roads accounted for about 73%, rail 20%
and water 7%.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways
1.02      The principal problem of the road subsector as a whole is its aged
and seriously deteriorated national network, notably the main international
connections. The highway subsector is reviewed in detail in Chapter II.
(ii) Railways
1.03      Uruguay's railways were owned and operated by a British company for
about 65 years (to 1949). The concession terms promoted construction of a
large network, 3,000 km, radiating in five lines from Montevideo. To compete
with the railway, the Uruguayan Government constructed roads paralleling many
of the rail lines, and the British company ceased further investments after
1926. Consequently, the Uruguayan Government purchased an obsolete railway
in 1949. The Administracion de los Ferrocarriles del Estado (AFE), a semi-
autonomous Government agency, was set up in 1952 to operate the railways. AFE
began replacing steam locomotives with diesel-electrics, but did not improve
the obsolete permanent way and equipment. The intervening 26 years have seen
a further deterioration in the condition of the railways through decapitaliza-
tion. Inevitably, the quality of service has fallen markedly, being reflected
in rapidly declining passenger and freight traffic. Several connections exist
with the Argentine and Brazilian systems, but, in the latter case, because of
difference in gauges, transshipment is necessary. By 1972, the railways
reached, possibly, their lowest point. Permanent way was completely worn out
(61% of rails were pre-1920) and ballast was largely non-existent; rolling
stock was obsolete and diesel-electric locomotives were more than 20 years
old; communications and signaling equipment were antiquated. Workshops were
old, and maintenance equipment worn out and obsolete, making repair work
inefficient; stations were old and decrepit. A recovery plan was drawn up in
1973, but without a concrete program of long-term investments; it included



- 2 -
purchase of rolling stock and modern workshop equipment. Some rolling stock
has been acquired from the United States and Hungary. A program of mechanical
processing of ballast is in progress, but no sleeper or rail replacement pro-
gram is planned.
1.04      Despite its deteriorated condition, the railway network still
carries 20% of Uruguay's freight and passenger traffic.  Therefore, although
traffic has declined markedly, the railways retain a significant role in
meeting the country's transport needs. Passenger traffic has halved since the
early 1950s to the 1972 level of 343 million pass-km. No substantial long
distance passenger traffic exists today, with the major part of traffic con-
sisting of suburban commuter-type demand, concentrated within 100 km of
Montevideo. In this area, passenger numbers are still relatively substantial,
and quality improvements might induce sufficient new riders to justify some
moderate passenger service upgrading. Freight traffic had, by 1975, fallen to
290 million ton-km compared with 445 million ton-km in 1965. Principal items
of freight are calcareous rock (not a high revenue earner by weight), rice,
and, of lesser importance, other grains, sugar and fertilizers. The only
lines with significant traffic levels are the Salto-Artigas, Mercedes and Rio
Branco lines. The new connection with the Argentine system at Salto has
persuaded AFE to commence construction of the 50-km connection of the Paysandu
and Mercedes lines. AFE's cheap labor and second-hand materials are minimizing
the financial cost of the link. The link would facilitate through-traffic to
Argentina and would provide an interconnection on to Paraguay. However, its
economics are unproved.
1.05      The managerial and operating procedures of AFE are antiquated and
inefficient. This, combined with the poor physical condition of the system,
has inevitably resulted in financial losses. These losses amounted to over
US$7 million in 1976, a direct drain on the national Treasury and an increase
of 45% over the 1975 deficit. The operating ratio in 1976 was about 1.9:1.
A UNDP-financed transport survey, for which the Bank was the executing agency,
was conducted in 1978 (para 1.16). It concluded that all rail traffic could be
carried more efficiently on roads. However, recognizing that complete closure
of the rail system is politically remote, consultants SOTECNI (Italy) recommended
a further study of limitation of passenger service to commuter lines near
Montevideo and of specialized bulk cargoes such as minerals and fuels. The report
provided, however, no economic analysis to suggest that retention of these services
might prove justifiable. The proposed project will include, under the three-
year program of technical assistance to strengthen and improve transport
sector management, an intermodal comparison which will address itself, inter
alia, to this problem (para 6.14).
(iii) Air Transport
1.06      Air transport has developed slowly in Uruguay, principally because
of the concentration of population in the Montevideo area, the country's easy
topography resulting in an abundance of surface transportation and the short
distances involved. Domestic air traffic has increased considerably in recent
years, but the total number of domestic passengers (60,000 in 1976) remains
low. International traffic, mostly related to travel in the River Plata area,
totaled about 620,000 passengers in 1976. Uruguay has only one functioning



- 3 -
international airport, Carrasco in Montevideo (2,450 m runway). The Government
plans to lengthen the existing runway in the near future. A military airport
to the north (Durazno) has been upgraded to emergency alternative status.
Maldonado, near the tourist resort of Punta del Este, has a 1,500 m runway
with unsatisfactory pavement and only daylight operations. Commercial airline
operations are dominated by PLUNA, a state-owned company. PLUNA operates
Fokker F27s, Fairchilds and smaller planes from Montevideo to seven towns in
Uruguay. For limited international service, mostly between Montevideo, Punta
del Este and Buenos Aires, PLUNA has Vickers Viscount 769s and 827s. Services
to several domestic airports are provided in cooperation with TAMU
(Transportes Aereos Militares Uruguayos).
1.07      Organizations involved in the administration of air transport are:
Direccion General de Aviacion Civil (DAC); Direccion General de Aeropuertos
Nacionales (DIGAN); and Comision Nacional de Politica Aeronautica (CNPA). The
National Defense Ministry controls all these organizations, including PLUNA.
DAC controls air operations, certification and licensing. DIGAN controls
construction, maintenance, operation and administration of airports. CNPA
was created in 1975 under the presidency of the Air Force Commander-in-Chief
and includes the managers of DAC, DIGAN, PLUNA and the Director of National
Transport in the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP). Its function
is to advise the Commander-in-Chief on national air policy. In 1974, DIGAN
prepared what is basically a works program totaling US$25.0 million for
1975-1984, including runway lengthening at Carrasco, proposals for upgrading
Maldonado airport and various other runway lengthenings and upgradings,
lighting, air stations and support facilities. The first four years of the
plan envisaged significant upgrading of airports at Paysandu, Salto and
Artigas which, in 1976, accounted for 77% of the domestic traffic. By the end
of 1976, US$7.3 million had been spent, in general accordance with the plan.
(iv)  Ports and Water Transport
1.08      Nearly 91% of Uruguay's foreign trade is handled by ports.
Montevideo accounts for more than 70% of this traffic, while Colonia, Nueva
Palmira, Fray Bentos and Paysandu handle the balance, mainly export of cereals
and construction materials to Brazil and Argentina. An offshore mooring buoy
berth has recently been installed at Punta Jose Ignacio to improve the facil-
ities for import of crude oil.
1.09      Montevideo is a well sheltered port capable of receiving ships
drawing up to 10 m. The port consists of 17 berths for ocean vessels built
between 1905 and 1930; nothing much has been added since. With massive masonry
wharves and structures, it operates on very old equipment over cobblestone
pavement, but maintenance has been improved by the present administration.
In 1977, it handled, in all, 2.9 million tons. This included 1.8 million tons
of crude oil, discharged at the tanker berths of the oil refinery, which is
being diverted to Punta Jose Ignacio. However, dry cargo traffic is expected
to increase as a result of the Government's efforts to increase the export of
grains and beef and to liberalize import restrictions.



- 4-
1.10      Administracion Nacional de Puertos (ANP) is the national organization
entrusted with the administration of ports. Created in 1916 as an autonomous
agency, ANP is responsible to MTOP and functions under the direction of a
Board of Directors composed of a president, vice-president, and one other
member, all of whom are nominated by the Executive Power. The responsibili-
ties of ANP include, in the case of all ports, the carrying out of loading and
discharging operations, lighterage, towage, and salvage and, in the case of
Montevideo only, the acquisition of the means necessary for providing maritime
and land services, granting concessions for such services and fixing tariffs
for port services (with prior approval of the Executive Power).
1.11      In the last few years, ANP has made considerable progress in certain
areas, such as: the removal of the penalty surcharge on international traffic
that had been levied by major shipping conferences, as a result of better
port operations and improved vessel dispatch since 1974-1976; a reduction in
the total number of port employees, from about 8,000 in 1972 to some 5,600
in mid-1978; and consistent reductions in total port operating costs in real
terms between 1974 and 1978, notwithstanding increases in port traffic.
Despite these improvements, ANP's costs are still very high, and efficiency
is low.
1.12      ANP has a development program for the Montevideo port for 1978-1982
comprising a silo and shiploader for grain exports, a refrigerated warehouse
for meat exports, cargo-handling equipment, dredge and related equipment,
container area and handling equipment, tugs and river port improvements. ANP
and the Bank are presently preparing a possible project for the Montevideo
port. ANP has also considered the long term alternative of building a new
deepwater port. However, this project has a low probability of materializing
because it would be very costly and would depend heavily for its justification
upon Argentine traffic being transshipped at the new port, thereby involving
international issues.
1.13      The national maritime fleet of Uruguay consists of 19 vessels (ten
seagoing and nine coastal), which include eight tankers, seven general cargo
ships, two refrigerated cargo ships and two ferries. In 1975, about 26% of
Uruguay's waterborne traffic was carried by the national fleet. Its share
in the transport of petrol, oil and lubricants was slightly higher, at 31%.
With the commissioning of the mooring berth at Punta Jose Ignacio, this share
will go down unless large tankers are added to the national fleet.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
1.14      MTOP was created in 1967 and has, in principle, responsibility for
the development of a national transport policy, transport coordination and
establishment of tariffs for transport services. The Ministry has some nominal
jurisdiction over the investment plans and operational policies and practices
of the modal agencies, AFE, ANP, PLUNA and DIGAN; however, in practice, their
plans and policies are formulated independently of MTOP. Although AFE is
subject to strict regulatory procedures, its management has been able, to date,
to resist pressures to halt rail investment and scale down operations. ANP
formulates its own investment program, financed mainly from its lucrative



- 5 -
ad valorem tariff revenues, and decides its operating policies. Air trans-
port planning and operations are, again, fairly autonomous. The National
Directorate of Transportation (DNT), created in 1975 within MTOP, provides
the formal channel of contact from the operational agencies through to the
Secretaria de Planificacion, Coordinacion y Difusion (SEPLACODI - the national
planning body responsible for Uruguay's social and economic planning and
coordination at the macro level). SEPLACODI prepares the five-year plans and
is supposed to determine sectoral priorities. DNT provides road transport
investment and expenditure proposals to SEPLACODI, but information on other
modes generally comes to SEPLACODI directly from the responsible agencies.
1.15      Sector management and intermodal coordination have been neglected
in the past. Lack of sectoral coordination has a long history, starting early
this century with the parallel and often competitive development of the then
foreign-owned railway and the national highway network. The almost complete
absence, until the 1978 transport survey, of data on transport costs and
demand has preempted any efforts in this regard. There was no discussion of
the transport sector in the Five-Year Plan (1973-1977) despite the allocation
of almost 20% of total public sector investment to transport.
1.16      In recognition of this deficiency, consultants SOTECNI completed
a UNDP-financed, Bank-executed transport survey in May 1978 which the
Government has used to establish needs and current priorities of the transport
sector and to identify the present project. This survey identified as key
development issues the need for: (a) strengthening national transport planning;
(b) improvement in road rehabilitation and reconstruction, particularly of the
international connections to Argentina and Brazil; (c) reductions of the rail-
road network, its operations and deficit; and (d) port modernization.
1.17      As a first step toward improving transport planning and coordination,
the Conclave 1/ of December 1977 created a Transport Advisory Council which is
led by DNT and which includes AFE, PLUNA, DIGAN, ANP and SEPLACODI. This
Council is preparing a national transport plan which is to be based largely
on the 1978-1982 investment plan recommendations of the SOTECNI survey.
A transport planning unit (TPU) of DNT within MTOP, staffed with counter-
parts from the SOTECNI survey, is presently assisting the Transport Advisory
Council in preparing a national transport plan. Technical assistance to
strengthen this unit is considered a high priority component of the
proposed highway project (paras 6.13 and 6.14).
1/   A consensus-making meeting of leading civilian and military authorities.



- 6 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  The Highway Network
2.01      The road network consists of some 50,000 km, of which 9,800 km are
national roads maintained by MTOP. One-third of the national network is paved,
and about 90% of this third lies in the radial system originating in Montevideo
(Map IBRD 14225). The remainder of the network, 40,000 km, consists of
secondary and feeder roads.
2.02      Road development really commenced in the 1930s, when the main net-
work barely reached 1,000 km; it tripled by 1940 and reached 7,500 km by 1950.
At that time, the basic network linking main economic and population concentra-
tions and making international connections was substantially completed. The
rate of expansion of the national network slowed considerably in the 1950s,
reaching about 8,800 km in 1960. From 1972 to 1976, the limited investment
resources were directed more toward improving the network than toward new con-
struction; in fact, since 1972, no additional national roads were constructed.
Following a similar pattern, the secondary network was basically complete by
1950, and growth in the last 25 years has been minimal.
2.03      The coverage of the national road network is adequate; the principal
problem is its age and seriously deteriorated condition, notably on the main
international connections, which have considerable importance given the
country's reliance on trade with its neighbors. Lack of timely periodic
maintenance during the long period of economic stagnation has contributed
significantly to this deterioration. The departmental road network needs
expansion mainly in the southwest, center, north and northwest Departments,
which are areas with high agricultural potential. Only 2,000 km (5%) of
the departmental network are paved; 4,000 km are gravel and 34,000 km are
earth roads (Table 2.1). These departmental roads are of low standard and
poorly maintained and offer restricted serviceability during the rainy season.
Recently, Vialidad has been helping the Departments to improve this situation
(para 2.20).
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic and Regulations
2.04      The traffic counts conducted by SOTECNI during 1976 provide the
most comprehensive information yet available on road traffic in Uruguay.
They showed average daily traffic (ADT) of 500 to 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd)
on most major highways, ranging up to 4,500 vpd near Montevideo. Traffic
growth in Uruguay has been low over recent years. High average vehicle age,
deteriorating road conditions, rising fuel prices and the overall state of the
economy have apparently restricted countrywide growth of traffic to negligible
proportions. National consumption of gasoline stagnated from 1957 to 1972 and
then dropped significantly by 1976. Consumption of diesel fuel, however, has
continued to increase, implying a change in relative vehicle usage toward
heavy vehicles (Table 2.2).
2.05      Information on the composition of traffic in Uruguay is sparse.  The
major counts were simply vehicle counts, with no differentiation by type of



vehicle. Only partial information was available for Montevideo, and negli-
gible data were available for the rest of the country. Based on some very
partial and somewhat out-of-date information related to several routes,
SOTECNI estimated the national average road traffic composition as: 58% light
vehicles; 36% trucks; and 6% buses. The most recent information for 1976
suggests that about 78% of all passenger traffic moves by road. Of the total
estimated freight traffic for 1976 (1,880 million ton-km), about 1,370 million
ton-km (73%) moved by road.
2.06      In the road transport industry, trucking companies with principally
international operations are few.  They operate truck fleets which are reason-
ably modern but smaller than the average for Latin America. However, inter-
national freight rates offered by Uruguayan firms are competitive with those
of Argentine and Brazilian operators. Trucks owned by companies operating
mainly in Uruguay on short and medium haul trips are generally rather old.
Short distances, mild climate, easy terrain and import restrictions are the
main factors accounting for the longevity of the equipment. The level of
service offered and the capacity of the truck fleet is broadly adequate for
the demand. Bus services are adequate for the country, with four interdepart-
mental service companies owning fleets of over 40 buses each. The average
age of the bus fleet is high, with half of the vehicles pre-dating 1960. The
tourist bus fleet is reasonably modern and efficient.
2.07      Uruguay requires a systematic nationwide collection of traffic counts
to plan maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of its road networks.
Establishment of a number of permanent and periodic counting stations is needed
as well as a series of origin and destination (O&D) surveys to provide informa-
tion on year-round distribution and flow of traffic.  Development of a permanent
traffic counting program and an implementation schedule would be one of the
elements to be developed under the three-year technical assistance component
to strengthen and improve transport sector planning (paras 4.02, 6.13 and 6.14).
2.08      Vehicle fleet statistics have not historically been collected on a
regular basis; therefore, little is known about the growth of the fleet (par-
ticularly the car fleet) except that it has been very low. The size and compo-
sition of the fleet, particularly outside the Montevideo region, remain uncer-
tain. Available data are based on registrations of vehicles, but, since there
is no routine procedure by authorities for cancellation of registration for
vehicles no longer in use, the official statistics do not accurately represent
the active vehicle fleet.  The Government is trying to improve vehicle regis-
tration procedures with the establishment of a central vehicle registry.
Departments would continue being in charge of collecting registration fees but
would supply data on fees and vehicles to DNT, which would produce national
vehicle fleet statistics. Using the Montevideo municipality's recent statistics
based on local annual license fees, SOTECNI estimated the national light
vehicle fleet at 133,000, with about 50% more than 20 years old. The truck
fleet is estimated at 40,000, with 50% over 20 years old and 85% with less
than 5-ton capacity. However, the international fleet operated by the major
national haulers appears adequately modern.
2.09      The quantitative and price restrictions on vehicle imports are
formidable. A decree of 1970 made compulsory the import of vehicles in kit



-8-
form. Kits may be imported only if there is a proportional compensating ex-
port value of Uruguayan manufactured vehicle parts. Given the very small size
of Uruguayan plants, this is a most inefficient policy. However, aside from
the economic effects, the obviously limited export opportunities have restricted
imports, and, while import of fully assembled cars continues through various
channels, the numbers are quantitatively small. Taxes on vehicle kit imports
are very high. Various import duties and charges, as well as the value added
tax incorporated in 1974, represented an overall tax of 90% to 105% of the
CIF cost.  By 1976, this tax burden was reduced to about 60-65% of the CIF cost,
but was still sufficient to limit import of vehicle kits to about 5,000 units.
New registrations in the Montevideo area for 1976 totaled only 3,600 vehicles.
2.10      Road transport is nominally regulated by DNT, which is under the
responsibility of MTOP; however, regulation is almost negligible. DNT is
responsible for developing appropriate regulatory policies to obtain efficiency
in road transport and administers licensing procedures for all vehicles. These
are effective only in the Montevideo region, where computer control is avail-
able. The trucking industry at both domestic and international levels is highly
competitive with completely free entry. Freight rates for international trips
are unregulated, being decided by bidding on a job basis. For local freight,
lack of regulation and large numbers of small companies have resulted in freight
tariffs often below cost and consequent rapid turnover of operators. Bus services
are fairly closely regulated, with licenses being issued for three classes
of operation -- long distance, medium distance (up to 100 km) and tourist.
Scheduled international services are undertaken through special permit by
certain long distance carriers. The rates for buses are set by DNT and seem
reasonable, and service levels are generally good.
2.11      Overloading of vehicles does not appear a serious problem in Uruguay.
However, as the state of the main international highways, including bridges,
continues to deteriorate and as long-haul modern truck traffic grows, the
road network will become more sensitive to vehicle loads. Uruguay's
vehicle weight control program is satisfactory.  There are five fixed scales
and 12 portable scales (the last ones recently acquired with an IDB loan).
A countrywide weight control program is being operated in an adequate manner.
2.12      The present axle weight control law limits single axle weight to
10 tons, which is about the same as for Argentina (10.5 tons) and Brazil
(10 tons). However, Uruguay limits gross vehicle weight to 36 tons, signif-
icantly below Argentina and Brazil, where gross loads are permitted up to
45 tons and 40 tons respectively. While not directly affecting axle load-
ings, this regulation does tend to restrict the average size of Uruguayan
trucks and, since it applies also to Argentine and Brazilian vehicles oper-
ating in Uruguay, it causes a reduction in the capacity and loading of these
trucks. Off-loading at the international borders to meet the 36-ton limit
is frequently enforced. This regulation cannot be amended because of the
large number of obsolete bridges along the Uruguayan road network. The pro-
posed project includes the preparation of a bridge improvement program which
would also assess the proper limit to be set on gross vehicle weight and
would review the efficiency of the countrywide vehicle weight control program
(paras 6.01 and 6.07).



-9-
C.   Highway Administration
2.13      For administrative purposes, the highway network is classified into
national and departmental networks. The National Highway Directorate
(Vialidad) within MTOP (Chart I) is responsible for planning, constructing
and maintaining the national highway network through its headquarters in
Montevideo and nine regional offices. Outside the direct control of Vialidad
is the departmental road network, which is controlled by the Municipal Admin-
istrations of each Department for construction and maintenance. All highway
construction by Vialidad is performed under contract with private construction
firms. Except for the major highways, Vialidad prepares all detailed engineer-
ing and supervises construction. Maintenance of highways is performed by
Vialidad, using its own labor force and equipment. Vialidad lost a consider-
able number of professional staff because of lack of construction activity
during the 1950s and early 1960s. Consequently, when major internationally
financed works were being prepared in the early 1960s, a new Directorate of
Economic Development Works (DODE) was created within MTOP (1964) to execute
these works. Staffing of DODE consisted mainly of younger, more capable
engineers than those employed by Vialidad. The large works on Route 5 (IBRD)
and on Route 26 (IDB) were carried out using modern construction techniques.
Supervision by DODE, with consultant assistance, was good. With the completion
of these projects, DODE remained without a specific function and, in 1976, was
absorbed by Vialidad. The present capabilities of Vialidad, mainly after the
absorption of DODE, are satisfactory even if some scarcity of senior staff is
still apparent.
D.   Highway Planning and Engineering
2.14      Although five-year investment plans were prepared for 1968-1972 and
1973-1977, there was no economic evaluation and, essentially, no coordination
with other transport agencies, most significantly the railroads. No economic
justifications were prepared for road projects until the SOTECNI survey, and the
plans were drawn up on the basis of engineering requirements only. Consultants
SOTECNI concluded that, over the period 1978-1982, a highway investment program
of about US$310 million (in 1976 prices), would be economically justified.
While it is very unlikely that an amount approaching this would be expended on
roads, it remains apparent that investment in roads over the next five years
would be very substantial. Consequently, planning of highway rehabilitation,
strengthening and reconstruction is considered a high priority component of
the proposed project (para 6.01).
2.15      In 1952, Vialidad adopted a set of road design standards, including
bridges and culverts. These were changed in 1973 to take into account the
characteristics of modern vehicles (Table 2.3). Up to now, no specific
standards have existed for pavement design. These would be developed, how-
ever, under the four-year program of rehabilitation, strengthening and re-
construction (para 6.03). Vialidad has increasingly used consultants for
engineering of large- and medium-size projects, relying either on joint
ventures of Uruguayan and foreign firms or solely Uruguayan. Design work
performed by consultants has been, in general, satisfactory.



10 °
E.   Highway Financing
2.16      Over the period 1972-1976, about 20% (averaging US$3.6 million per
year) of the national highway capital expenditures was financed from external
sources. The remaining funds came from MTOP's budget. Total road user
revenues were growing at about 15% per year during this period and, by 1976,
had reached over US$100 million, of which US$80 million was derived from fuel
taxes 1/. MTOP expenditure on roads, i.e., for construction and maintenance,
was less than half the level of user charges, reaching about US$43 million
in 1976. Total expenditure by MTOP on roads has been lagging behind revenues
actually earmarked for roads by about 10% in recent years. About 42% of the
fuel taxes are earmarked for MTOP, and, in 1976, this, plus revenue from minor
user taxes, represented about 75% of MTOP income. Of the remainder, 17% came
from the national budget and 8% from external sources.
F.   Highw^ay Construction
2.17      All road construction by Vialidad is done under contract with private
contractors. Contracts have been performed satisfactorily but with some delays
in work completion. The construction of major highways, undertaken with foreign
financial assistance (Route 5 with IBRD, Route 26 with IDB and Route 9 with AID)
was handled by DODE, which was created specifically for this purpose because of
Vialidad's inability, in 1964, to execute large projects; however, its continued
existence alongside Vialidad involved unnecessary duplication of effort and
resources (para 2.13). DODE performed satisfactorily and obtained good quality
control.
2.18      Construction is usually carried out in short sections, allowing the
participation of national firms which generally have limited capacity. Since
1968, all contractors have been required to register in MTOP's General Register
of Contractors. Firms are classified according to field of specialization,
financial capacity, availability of equipment, annual work capacity and past
performance. The total capacity of Uruguayan contractors is about N$ 400
million/year (about US$70 million/year). Only two contractors have a capacity
above N$ 40 million/year (US$7 million/year). Performance of large and small
contractors is, in general, satisfactory. Unsatisfactory performances in civil
works have generally been due to lack of adequate supervision or delays in
payments.
G.   Highway Maintenance
2.19      Maintenance of all national highways is performed by Vialidad, using
its own equipment and a manpower of about 2,100 workers and 40 engineers.
Maintenance is carried out by nine regional offices subdivided into 26 dis-
tricts. Each regional office is allocated its own maintenance equipment and
has a field workshop for routine equipment maintenance. The central workshop,
located in Colon (on the outskirts of Montevideo), performs all major equip-
ment repairs and is the national center for maintenance training.
1/   The retail price of gasoline is US$0.39 per liter, of which about 43% is
taxes, and the retail price of diesel is US$0.20 per liter with a tax
content of 24%.



- 11 -
2.20      Routine maintenance of trunk roads is generally acceptable.  Periodic
maintenance has historically been unsatisfactory, mainly because of budgetary
neglect and poor planning. Maintenance of the departmental highways is inade-
quate, and some pavements have deteriorated to the point at which passage
becomes difficult during the rainy season. However, several agreements have
been reached recently between Vialidad and the departmental authorities
to help improve their maintenance practices, such as provision of aggregates,
asphalt and technical staff. Although the organizational setup for maintenance
of roads is generally adequate, the main problems are lack of equipment and
lack of an efficient labor force.
2.21      Acquisition of new equipment and increase in labor efficiency are
therefore of high priority. Consultants Harris (USA) completed a study in
1977 for maintenance requirements under an IDB-financed grant. This study
identified and recommended equipment requirements for highway maintenance,
reorganization of Vialidad and training needs. Implementation of the study's
recommendations has already started, and highway maintenance (particularly
periodic maintenance) is now recognized by the Government as a matter requir-
ing continuing attention and budgetary support. Acquisition of new equipment
(US$4 million equivalent) financed under the IDB loan 1/ is under way. Vialidad
is also negotiating with equipment dealers in Uruguay for the acquisition of
an additional US$6.0 million worth of equipment. The operational capacity of
Vialidad's existing training unit has been improved. Regular training courses
have started for foremen and equipment operators in the central workshop of Colon,
and courses in equipment maintenance are being prepared for implementation at
headquarters and at the regional workshops. Training courses planned over the
period 1979-1980 will reach about 1,000 persons. A management accounting and
information system would be implemented following the recommendations of a study
carried out by consultants Arthur Young. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that Vialidad would reorganize its accounting system
to show, from 1980 onward, itemized expenditures of routine and periodic main-
tenance, minor improvements, rehabilitation, major improvements, reconstruction
and construction.
2.22      Maintenance expenditures increased from US$5.2 million in 1972 to
US$22.9 million in 1976. These expenditures include rehabilitation works,
which have been increasing because of the rapidly deteriorating state of the
network. Only US$8.7 million was estimated to have been spent on routine
maintenance in 1976. Of total maintenance and rehabilitation costs in 1976,
55% was devoted to labor, 28% to fuel and lubricants and less than 5% to equip-
ment. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would
exchange views annually, during the period of project implementation, with the
Bank on (a) the progress in the implementation of the road maintenance program
financed with the assistance of the IDB loan and (b) its overall maintenance
program and related budgetary proposals in order to review, in particular,
(i) the programs of periodic maintenance for paved roads; (ii) renewal and
acquisition of maintenance equipment; and (iii) assistance to the Departments
for road maintenance.
2.23      Periodic maintenance on the national network, such as the renewal
of the wearing course of paved roads, has improved considerably during the
last year and is mostly being carried out by Vialidad using new and recently
repaired equipment; this improvement is mainly due to the implementation of
1/   IDB Loan No. 391 of US$16.1 million, dated March 14, 1974.



- 12 -
the Harris study's recommendations. Particularly good results have been
obtained by the two regional offices of Tacuarembo and Melo, with workshops
acting as regional equipment pools for maintenance and overhaul of equipment,
avoiding excessive dependency upon the central workshop of Colon. Vialidad's
goal is to obtain an adequate maintenance (routine and periodic) of the
national network by the end of 1982.
III. PAST BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
3.01      Bank Group involvement in the Uruguayan transport sector has been
limited.  The Bank's only operation in the sector was a highway loan made in
1963 (Loan 324-UR, US$18.5 million equivalent) to assist financing of improve-
ment, of Route 5 from the outskirts of Montevideo (Progreso) to Rivera on the
Brazilian border (about 500 km), strengthening of highway maintenance, includ-
ing purchase of equipment, and a highway planning study.  A final Supervision
Report was prepared September 29, 1972.
3.02      The improvement of Route 5 consisted of widening, paving, raising
the grades of certain sections frequently inundated, replacing of inadequate
drainage structures, and replacing and widening of a number of bridges. The
works were satisfactorily completed in 1971, but five years later than the
appraisal estimate. This delay was due to incomplete engineering designs,
difficulties in obtaining satisfactory bids and poor contractor performance
in two sections where part of the contracts had to be reassigned to other
contractors. Cost overruns, mainly caused by the five-year delay, amounted
to about 14%. Actual traffic data showed an average increase of about 50%
over the appraisal estimates for 1971.
3.03      The maintenance program comprised the purchase of highway mainte-
nance equipment (US$3 million equivalent), improvement of the cost accounting
system, reorganization of warehouses, and an adequate distribution of mainte-
nance equipment among the main, regional and district workshops. Equipment
purchased was put to use, and the maintenance of the national road network
improved considerably. With the help of consultants, the quality of mainte-
nance work performed in Vialidad's main workshop in Colon and the regional
and district workshops was raised to a satisfactory level, and overall orga-
nization was improved. The maintenance study carried out by INGEROUTE (France)
in 1966 formed the basis for the organization of a regular maintenance pro-
gram in Uruguay.  This program is being continued under financing from other
international agencies.
3.04      The first Bank highway loan to Uruguay had a significant impact on
the operational capacity of MTOP through the creation, as suggested by the
Bank, of DODE in 1964. This new department was in charge of all civil works
financed by international agencies. Recently, DODE has been absorbed by
Vialidad (para 2.13), thus increasing considerably Vialidad's operational
capacity. The highway planning study prepared by consultants INGEROUTE in
1966 provided the basis for Vialidad's five-year investment plan 1973-1977.
3.05      Following a transport sector review undertaken in 1974, the Government
obtained UNDP financing to carry out a comprehensive survey of the transport



- 13 -
sector. The survey was entrusted to consultants SOTECNI with the Bank
acting as Executing Agency; the final SOTECNI report was submitted in 1978.
The survey pointed out the need for improvement in sector management and for
systematic and coherent programs for rehabilitation and reconstruction of
main national roads.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
4.01      The proposed project would provide a basis to reestablish working
relationships in the highway sector and to prepare further improvements in
the direction suggested by the Transport Survey; in particular, it would
assist the Government in improving the integration of the northern area of the
country and neighboring Brazil to Montevideo, Uruguay's capital and major
port, and would strengthen the transport sector management, especially with
regard to planning and programing of rehabilitation and strengthening of road
pavements and bridges.
4.02      The project would consist of:
(a)  Reconstruction of Route 8 (140 km) between Punta Rieles (Km 13
from Montevideo) and Arroyo Marmaraja (Km 153) including:
(i)  civil works by contractors; and
(ii)  supervision by consultants.
(b)  Strengthening of Transport Sector Management and Studies including:
(i)  preparation of a four-year rehabilitation and reconstruction
program of roads and a bridge improvement program;
(ii)  detailed engineering of roads for the first two-year
tranche of the program developed under (i) above; and
(iii)  technical assistance to strengthen and improve transport
sector planning.
4.03      Implementation of the project is expected to take about three-and-
one-half years (April 1979 to December 1982). A detailed description, economic
evaluation, and specific covenants concerning the project are provided in
Chapters V and VI.
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$61.2 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$31.5 million (about 51%).



- 14 -
The proposed Bank loan of US$26.5 million would finance the full estimated
foreign exchange component of project components except civil works, for which
the Bank would finance 42% of the costs against an estimated foreign exchange
component of 51%. The Government confirmed, during negotiations, that it
would finance the local cost of US$29.7 million equivalent. The Government
expects to obtain financing from a private bank to finance the US$5.0 million
balance of the foreign exchange component. Such financing would be applied to
civil works and would result in 51% of it being financed externally. Should
the private bank loan not be made, the Government has undertaken to finance
this US$5.0 million of foreign exchange requirement. This was confirmed during
negotiations. There is a possibility that UNDP may finance US$0.4 million of
the technical assistance to strengthen and improve transport planning.  This
project component would then be carried out as a UNDP project with the Bank
acting as executing agency. The foreign exchange component for this technical
assistance is estimated at US$600,000 equivalent. If UNDP funds are forthcoming,
an equivalent amount of the proposed loan would be canceled.
4.05      In the event that private bank financing of US$5.0 million is
obtained, the Bank would seek the agreement of the Government to amend the
Loan Agreement so as to include the usual provision for co-financing. Such
amended Loan Agreement should include: (a) a cross-default clause; (b) a
skewed amortization schedule of the Bank loan so that roughly constant semi-
annual amortization payments would amortize both loans; and (c) a provision
that disbursements for civil works would be conditioned on the co-lender's
loan having been fully disbursed for the foreign exchange component of civil
works before drawing on the Bank loan (this is expected to occur within the
first year of the project period). In addition, the amended Loan Agreement
should require the Borrower to furnish to the Bank quarterly reports certifying
that the private bank funds have been used to finance eligible project expen-
ditures.
4.06      A summary of the estimated project costs is given on the following
page. Base costs are estimated at April 1979 prices. The estimated costs of
reconstruction of the Route 8 Punta Rieles (Km 13) to Arroyo Marmaraja
(Km 153) section are based on detailed engineering prepared by consultant
INVIAL (Uruguay) and current unit prices for similar works (para 5.05 and
Table 5.1). Cost estimates for consulting services and technical assistance
are based on recent contracts or man-month rates for similar services provided
by local and foreign firms.
4.07      A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to cover increases
in quantities usually expected in road works. About 12% of base costs plus
physical contingencies has been allowed for price variations assuming infla-
tion rates as shown at the bottom of the cost table.  These rates reflect
recent worldwide estimates and are relevant to Uruguay. Since it is the
Government's policy to adjust the Peso/US$ exchange rate in line with respec-
tive inflation rates, and since construction prices in Uruguay have moved in
line with local inflation rates, a separate calculation for domestic prices
has not been considered necessary.
4.08      Estimates of the foreign exchange component for civil works are
based on an analysis of major construction costs (fuel, asphalt, equipment,



- 15-
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
Foreign
Exchange          Bank
US$ million(April 1979)       Component    Participation
Local    Foreign    Total           %         US$ m       %
I.   Reconstruction of Route 8 (140 Km)
(a) Civil works                                   22.3       23.2       45.5         51         19.3       42
(b) Supervision                                    0.9        0.9        1.8         50          0.9       51
Subtotal                        23.2       24.1       47.3                    20.2
II.  Transport Sector Management
(a) preparation of a four-year rehabilita-
tion and reconstruction program of
national highways and a bridge improve-
ment program                                   0.4        0.4        0.8         50          0.4       51
(b) detailed engineering of the first
two-year tranche of the
program developed under II (a)                 0.5        0.5        1.0         50          0.5      51
(c) technical assistance to strengthen and
im.prove transport sector planning            0.2        0.6        0.8         80         0.6       80
Subtotal                         1.1        1.5        2.6                     1.5
Base Cost  (April 1979)                      24.3       25.6       49.9                    21.7
Contingencies
(a)  Physical (10% of I (a))                       2.2        2.3        4.5                     1.9
(b) Price escalation 1/ (about 12% of basic
cost plus physical contingencies)             3.2        3.6        6.8                     2.9
Subtotal                         5.4        5.9       11.3                     4.8
Total                           29.7       31.5       61.2         51         26.5       43
1/  Based on the following estimated annual price increase: 7% for 1979-1982



- 16 -
labor and overheads), which include taxes and duties (16% of total cost). It
was assumed that the works would be executed by firms from bordering countries
working either independently or in joint ventures with local firms, as has
been the case for recent similar projects and for the previous Bank highway
project. A foreign exchange component of 51% has been estimated. Consulting
services for civil work supervision, for the four-year rehabilitation and
reconstruction program and bridge improvement program and for detailed engi-
neering have an estimated foreign exchange component of 50% since they will
be provided by local consultants with limited input of foreign expertise.
Technical assistance for transport sector planning is expected to be provided
mainly by foreign experts. Past experience indicates that 80% of the costs
would be in foreign expenditures. The cost per man-month for consulting
services and technical assistance is estimated to range from US$3,000 to
US$9,000, including subsistence and travel costs, with an average of US$6,000
per man-month. The various consulting services and technical assistance would
require a total of about 735 man-months.
4.09      Disbursements of the Bank loan (Table 4.1) would be made against
normal documentation as follows:
(a) 42% for civil works;
(b) 51% of total expenditures for consulting services for the
rehabilitation program and bridge study and for detailed
engineering of selected road sections; and
(c) 80% of total expenditures for technical assistance to strengthen
transport sector planning.
C.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
4.10      The execution of the project would be the responsibility of MTOP.
Vialidad would be the executing agency for all project components except the
transport sector planning component, which would be under DNT. The Government
would, not later than September 1, 1979, appoint a project coordinator directly
responsible to the Minister of Transport and Public Works to serve as liaison
between Vialidad and all other agencies involved in the execution of the
project. This was agreed during negotiations. The project implementation
schedule, shown in Chart II, was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
4.11      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement' (March 1977). Civil works for reconstruction of
Route 8 would be carried out on the basis of unit price contracts awarded in
accordance with international competitive bidding procedures to prequalified
firms. For bidding purposes, the works would be divided into four lots, which
would be bid simultaneously. The estimated value of individual contracts
would range from US$5 to US$10 million, so that medium-capacity local contrac-
tors would have an opportunity to bid. However, large contractors would be
allowed to bid on one or more lots. During negotiations, bidding and contract-
ing procedures and details were reviewed and agreed. Terms of reference for
consulting services and technical assistance were also reviewed and agreed
during negotiations. The qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of
employment of consultants selected for these assignments would be acceptable
to the Bank. This was confirmed during negotiations.



- 17 -
4.12      The principal indicators for monitoring the project are identified
in the implementation schedule (Chart II). In addition, the IDB-financed
highway maintenance program and the Government's annual program and budget
for road maintenance, starting with the year 1980, would be monitored
(paras 2.21 and 2.22). Indicators to measure annual maintenance performance
would include fleet availability and utilization, grading of unpaved roads,
and kilometers of roads regraveled, resealed or overlayed. The indicators to
be used for monitoring the project were discussed and agreed during negotia-
tions. The Government would be required to prepare a project completion
report within six months of the loan closing date.
D.   Risks
4.13      Particular attention was given during project preparation to the
major sources of implementation problems encountered in past highway con-
struction projects in Uruguay. The procurement phase of the project presents
no special risk. Past experience with similar projects in Uruguay, however,
shows that delays in project implementation of one or two years have occurred,
mainly because of inadequate supervision. The arrangements and the schedule for
the tendering phase of the project were carefully reviewed and agreed. This,
together with the early engagement of consultants for supervision, would reduce
the risk of delay in the initiation of the project. Sensitivity tests carried
out on the delay hypothesis showed that the justification of the project would
not be affected (para 5.20).
V. RECONSTRUCTION OF ROUTE 8
A.  Description
5.01      Route 8 is one of the main roads linking Montevideo to the interior
and is an important connector to Brazil. It extends from Montevideo to the
Brazilian border at Acegua (441 km) where it connects to the Brazilian highway
system. At Treinta y Tres (Km 271), Route 18 branches off Route 8 and crosses
the border at Rio Branco (207 km) to form another connection with the Brazilian
system. The Bank project comprises 140 km of Route 8 from the outskirts of
Montevideo (Map IBRD 14225); the remainder of Route 8 is being rehabilitated
and reconstructed with the assistance of an IDB loan. Montevideo, the capital,
*          contains about 50% of the country's population and is the largest urban
center. The port of Montevideo handles over 70% of Uruguay's foreign trade.
Given the country's reliance on trade with its neighbors and the central role
of the port of Montevideo in Uruguay's export-led development policy, the
international connections such as Route 8 assume considerable importance.
5.02      The present road has a relatively new four-lane divided highway
(13 km long) ending in Punta Rieles on the outskirts of Montevideo. The rest
of the road is an obsolete two-lane structure originally built at the begin-
ning of the century following the alignment of the tracks of animal-drawn
vehicles. Its design standards are far below those required for present heavy
traffic levels (para 5.11). The pavement and shoulders along the 140 km in
the project are in a very deteriorated state, despite frequent and costly
repairs, and are hazardous, especially during wet weather. The characteristics



- 18 -
of the present road are shown in Table 5.1. The feeder roads in the area of
influence of Route 8 are generally adequate for the current and foreseeable
level of activity.
B.   Preparation and Engineering
5.03      In May 1977, the Government identified the reconstruction of Route
8 as its highest priority during the course of the UNDP-financed and Bank-
executed Transport Survey.  The SOTECNI final report confirmed the high
economic priority of the Route 8 project and established rehabilitation,
strengthening and reconstruction of main intercity and international highways
as the major requirements of a sound transport investment program and the
highest priorities in the highway subsector. These recommendations coincide
with Government priorities.
5.04      Detailed engineering for reconstruction of the 140 km along Route 8
was prepared in 1975 and updated between March and August 1978, following
the recommendation of Bank staff. The updating, carried out by consultants
INVIAL (Uruguay), included a detailed economic evaluation of alternative design
standards and a complete review of the final engineering. Bank assistance in
project preparation contributed to more than 17% reduction in estimated cost
and established sounder design concepts. Further minor adjustments needed
to reflect additional reductions agreed during the appraisal mission were
satisfactorily completed in mid-March 1979. These adjustments include a more
modest pavement structure on the carriageway and shoulders, reduction in
shoulder width and elimination of the bypass at Minas.
5.05      The 140 km of the project from Punta Rieles to Arroyo Marmaraja
would be constructed as a modern road, of which the first 17.5 km, extending
the existing four-lane access road to the northeast of Montevideo, would be
upgraded to four-lane standards. The remainder would be reconstructed to
two-lane standards with design and structure characteristics closely reflect-
ing projected traffic volumes which decrease from about 3,000 vpd (over 50%
heavy vehicles) to about 400 vpd as one moves away from Montevideo. For the
purpose of analysis and design, the road has been divided into nine sections.
Design standards for the nine sections, as well as construction costs, are
shown in Table 5.1. The terrain crossed by the road is mostly undulating,
which does not present major earthwork problems. However, the soil subgrade
characteristics are quite unfavorable. There is also a scarcity of suitable
aggregates for pavement courses and structures. The new alignment parallels
the existing one except on some stretches, where an entirely new horizontal
alignment was formed. The gradients have been improved considerably and, in
general, are completely different from those of the existing road. The four-
lane section has no bridges, but bridges are relatively abundant after Pando
along the two-lane road; none of them, however, is expected to present special
difficulties. Cost estimates, based on detailed engineering, range from about
US$630,000 per km for the first section (four-lane) to US$290,000 per km for
the two-lane sections.



- 19 -
C.   Consultant Services for Supervision
5.06      Vialidad, which has recently been strengthened by the absorption of
DODE (para 2.13), directly supervises highway construction contracts; however,
it still suffers from some scarcity of senior technical staff. Because of the
extent of the roadworks under the proposed project, Vialidad would engage
consultants for supervision of civil works.
5.07      About 250 man-months of professional services would be required,
starting with the evaluation of the respective bids and ending with the pro-
visional reception of such civil works. During negotiations, it was agreed
that contracting of these consultants would be a condition of loan effective-
ness. It was also agreed that Vialidad would provide, within its Department
of Works, at least two experienced and qualified engineers as counterparts.
Annex 1 provides outline terms of reference and cost estimates for consulting
studies.
D.   Project Impact
5.08      Route 8 to Acegua and its extension to Rio Branco constitute signifi-
cant highway links with Brazil. The proposed highway project would provide
less costly and more reliable transport services to its area of influence,
which comprises parts of the six eastern provinces of the country. This area
produces significant proportions of the national output of rice, cattle and
cereals. The improved Route 8 would facilitate the export of cement produced
near the city of Minas to the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul and would
also help the Uruguayan fishing industry to improve the distribution of its
perishable produce to the interior of the country and to Brazil. Montevideo
would benefit from more fluent and less costly transportation, which would
contribute to the development of its industry and enhance its role as Uruguay's
leading port. The civil works of the project are expected to provide jobs for
about 1,500 workers during the construction period.
5.09      The proposed project would have no adverse environmental impact and
would provide safer driving conditions to cars, trucks, and buses using the
road as well as to pedestrians and non-motorized vehicles using the road sides.
E.   Economic Evaluation
(i) General
5.10      The economic evaluation concentrates on the civil works component of
the project (including supervision), which represents about 95% of the estimated
project base cost. The evaluation was carried out by means of the Bank's Road
Analysis Model (RAM). A user's manual describes in detail the methodology
used in the RAM. 1/ The evaluation considered the economic costs of civil
1/   Bank's Road Analysis Model (RAM), User's Manual, September 1976.



- 20 -
works, including.supervision and physical contingencies, and also costs of
maintenance, vehicle operation, time and accidents in the "without" and "with"
project alternatives.
(ii) Traffic
5.11      Existing traffic volumes on Route 8 and its connecting roads were
established through traffic surveys conducted by consultants INVIAL (Uruguay)
in 1978, which is the base year (Table 5.2). Current traffic varies from
3,000 vehicles per day (8,500 passenger car equivalent) to 400 vehicles per
day (1,500 passenger car equivalent) between Punta Rieles and Arroyo Marmaraja.
The proportion of trucks and buses ranges from 51% to 68%.  Diverted traffic
for light vehicles and trucks was assumed to be 15% for sections 1 and 2 and
2% for sections 3, 4 and 5. Traffic diverted from rail in the zone of influence
of the project road is not significant and has not been considered in the
economic evaluation.
5.12      The growth of normal traffic was estimated for a 22-year period
(1980 to 2001). It ranges from 2.7% per year to 3.2% per year. These growth
rates were based on estimated growth of population and per capita income in
the area of influence of the road. Compared with previous traffic estimates
made (e.g., the 1978 Uruguay Transport Survey), they can be considered fairly
conservative. The proposed project, through reduction in vehicle operating
costs, would, depending on the relevant section and on the type of vehicle,
generate a traffic increase of 2% to 15% of normal traffic.
(iii) Benefits from the Project
5.13      Quantifiable benefits from the proposed highway construction include
the direct benefits derived by highway users, i.e., vehicle operating cost
savings, time savings and accident savings.
5.14      The new Route 8 would allow higher average speeds, which would
reduce vehicle operating costs significantly. Estimates of vehicle operating
costs were prepared by the consultants based on de Weille, 1/ modified according
to their experience in Uruguay and using Uruguayan prices as input. A summary
of the vehicle operating costs with and without the project is shown in
Annex 2. Vehicle operating cost savings accounted for about 73% of total
quantifiable benefits.
5.15      Benefits derived from reductions in travel time have been included;
they accounted for about 16% of total quantifiable benefits. Value of
time was based on estimates of hourly income for the working population in
the zone of influence of the highway. Based on the consultants' O&D survey of
the project road, about 85% of all passengers travel for work or business-
related purposes.
5.16      Benefits derived from reductions of traffic accidents have also been
included in the evaluation. Although no reliable records of accident rates
in Uruguay are available, the observation of traffic flow and road conditions
and the analysis of reported accidents in the area indicate a relatively high
1/   Quantification of Road User Savings, World Bank Occasional Paper No. 2,
1968.



- 21 -
level of accidents per vehicle-km. Based on observations in Uruguay and in
other countries, the consultants estimated an order-of-magnitude rate of
accident savings for the project, as well as average costs per accident.
Reductions of accidents accounted for about 4% of total quantifiable benefits.
5.17      In addition to road user savings, savings in road maintenance costs
were included in the evaluation, accounting for about 7% of total quantifiable
benefits. Actual maintenance expenditures over the last five years on this
highway were used as a base for determining maintenance costs without the
proposed project. Future maintenance requirements for the proposed project
were determined on the basis of empirical evidence gained on similar highways
in Uruguay. In addition, an overlay has been assumed after ten years of
service.
(iv) Benefit Distribution
5.18      The benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs are
expected to be passed on, in large part, to the users in the form of reduc-
tions or, more probably, avoided increases in tariffs for road transport
services. This assessment is based on the highly competitive nature of the
trucking industry and the reasonable bus tariffs set by the Government
(para 2.10); it would have a direct impact on economic production since
most of the traffic on this highway is related to productive activities and
trade.  Additionally, the users would benefit from improved quality of service
(comfort, safety, reliability, punctuality) and shorter travel time.
(v) Economic Returns
5.19      In carrying out the economic assessment, adjustments have been made
to avoid the influence of taxes and subsidies. Economic costs net of taxes
and subsidies have been estimated for construction, maintenance, and vehicle
operating costs. Shadow conversion factors for the exchange rate and labor
were not used since the sensitivity analysis showed that the economic rate of
return (ERR) was not sensitive to these parameters within a reasonable range.
5.20      The ERR was computed on the costs and quantified benefits described
above, over the project period 1980-2001, covering the construction period
plus economic life (Table 5.3). The proposed road is well justified with an
overall ERR of about 20%, its nine sections ranging between about 43% and 11%
(the 11% concerns the end section Arroyo Campanero Chico - Arroyo Marmaraja).
An analysis of the optimum timing for the nine sections shows that all of them
should be undertaken as soon as possible to be in service by 1982. Sensitivity
tests applied to the economic evaluation consider a 15% increase in costs, a
25% decrease in benefits, no time savings and a two-year delay in the comple-
tion of the project (para 4.13). The overall rate of return is 18% for the
cost increase hypothesis, 15% for the benefit decrease hypothesis, 16% for the
time savings omittance hypothesis and 15% for the delay hypothesis, indicating
that the project would remain justified within acceptable limits. The above
results were obtained on the assumption that all nine sections would be recon-
structed commencing in 1980. In addition, a sensitivity test has been carried
out assuming that the end section Arroyo Campanero Chico - Arroyo Marmaraja



- 22 -
would not be included in the proposed project. Under the conservative assump-
tion that this would reduce the generated traffic of sections 1 to 8 only on
the order of the traffic generated by section 9, the ERR of section 9 would
increase from about 11% to 14%, if the foregone benefits of sections 1 and 8
from the lost generated traffic were attributed to section 9.
(vi) Incremental Analysis
5.21      An incremental analysis has been carried out for the first three
sections, for which a four-lane divided highway is proposed. Two alternative
design standards have been compared with constructing a four-lane divided
highway:  (i) staged construction; and (ii) constructing only a two-lane high-
way parallel to the existing road. Alternative (i) involves two stages:
Stage I - completion of earthworks and construction of one two-lane carriageway
and Stage II - completion of construction and addition of the second two-lane
carriageway in year 2, 5 or 10 after completion of Stage I. The incremental
analysis of the staged construction included two sub-alternatives (Table 5.4).
Alternative (i)a considered, inter alia, for Stage I, the strengthening of
shoulders to be used by heavy traffic as an occasional passing lane. The
construction costs of this alternative amounted to 85% of a four-lane divided
highway. Alternative (i)b considered no strengthening of the shoulders for
Stage I, and its construction cost amounted to 75% of a four-lane divided
highway. The construction costs of Stage II amounted to 41% of a four-lane
divided highway in alternative (i)a and to 45% in alternative (i)b. The
4% cost difference was caused by the inclusion of rehabilitation costs for
one shoulder in alternative (i)b. The construction costs of alternative
(ii) were estimated to be at least equal to the costs of Stage I of alter-
native (i)a.  The savings obtained from reductions in earthworks less than
compensate for the cost of additional longitudinal drainage needed in view of
the proximity of the existing road.  The selection of the design standards
was based on the net present value criterion.  The incremental analysis clearly
demonstrated that constructing a four-lane divided highway is economically
superior to alternatives (i) and (ii) (Table 5.4).
VI. TRANSPORT SECTOR MANAGEMENT
A.   Preparation of a Four-Year Program of Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction of Roads and a Bridge Improvement Program
6.01      With a view toward preparing future highway programs, the proposed
project includes consulting services for the preparation of a four-year
program of rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction of roads and a
bridge improvement program along the main national highways to be implemented
during the next ten years.
6.02      The four-year program of rehabilitation and reconstruction will be
based on the study carried out by consultants SOTECNI. The main objective of
the SOTECNI study was the preparation of a transport sector investment program
(for the periods 1978-1982 and 1983-1992). However, although the study has made
a valuable contribution in assembling, for the first time, comprehensive data



- 23 -
relating to the transport sector, the highway subsector analysis and the invest-
ment program were weak because of lack of analysis of current traffic under
origin and destination surveys; the SOTECNI study was not required to provide
any detailed analysis of the improvement needed by the selected road sections.
6.03      The four-year program (1982-1985) would identify road sections
having high priority for rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction.
It would:
(a) produce and analyze current traffic surveys;
(b) carry out a detailed survey of soils, drainage, structures
and pavement. Pavement survey would be carried out using
deflection measurements;
(c) develop an adequate methodology to determine when rehabilita-
tion, strengthening or reconstruction of a road should be needed;
(d) provide Vialidad with detailed information about investment
needs of the road sections and their cost estimates;
(e) select a list, based on economic priority, of about 400 km
which would form the four-year program of rehabilitation,
strengthening and reconstruction; and
(f) assist Vialidad in the supervision of detailed engineering
and updating of the economic evaluation based on final designs
of the 200 km carried out under Section B following.
The program would also develop, for the first time in Uruguay, specific stan-
dards for pavement design (para 2.15).
6.04      The bridge improvement program will be based on economic priorities.
The program will mainly, but not exclusively, comprise bridges on the main
international highways. Such a program is urgently needed since most of the
bridges were built 40 to 60 years ago and designed for traffic loads below
the present level. Vehicle weights and dimensions permitted in Argentina and
Brazil could not allow the existing bridges to be used safely because of their
obsolescence and insufficient capacity. Consequently, most of the trucks with
international freight have to be off-loaded at the Uruguay borders or under-
take a lengthy detour to the north. This problem contributes to high transport
costs in Uruguay and in the region and constitutes an obstacle to the develop-
ment of Uruguay's international trade.
6.05      The problem is important and affects the whole country, which has
more than 1,000 bridges along the 10,000 km of the national network. There-
fore, Vialidad concentrates mostly, but not entirely, on the main interna-
tional highways, such as Routes 5, 8, 9, 18 and 26, which carry a high volume
of international traffic and whose bridges have so far been given less atten-
tion. Obsolete bridges exist, albeit in low quantity, on the other inter-
national routes and would also be taken into consideration. The bridge
study would comprise about 400 bridges along 5,000 km of the national network.
The average length would be 80 m with a maximum of 1,200 m. The accumulated
length would be about 32,000 m.



24 -
6.06      Consultants would complete an inventory of all bridges including
geometrical and structural characteristics, hydraulic records and an inspec-
tion of the present condition and would determine the permissible load for
each bridge and its ability to continue supporting the current loads. If
needed, appropriate load tests would be carried out. Preliminary engineering
and cost estimates would be prepared for each one requiring rehabilitation or
reconstruction (about 50% of them are standard bridges).
6.07      The bridge study would also include an economic feasibility analysis
on the improvement or replacement of the bridges and a review of the present
weight and vehicle dimensions regulations. The timing of rehabilitation,
reconstruction or replacement of each bridge over the next ten years would be
indicated based on technical and economic considerations.
6.08      The studies (four-year rehabilitation and reconstruction and bridge
improvement program) are likely to be carried out by a joint venture of
foreign and local consultants over an 23-month period (Chart II). About 135
man-months of professional services will be required.  Annex 3 provides
outline terms of reference and cost estimates for consulting services.
6.09      To assist the consultants in the development of both studies, it was
agreed during negotiations that Vialidad would provide not less than one high-
way engineer, one structural engineer and one economist, all with adequate
qualifications and experience.
B.   Engineering of Roads Identified Under (A) for the First Two-Year Tranche
6.10      The purpose of this component is to carry out detailed engineering
of roads identified under (A) that would be improved in the first two-year
tranche. In accordance with priorities agreed with the Bank staff, the
proposed project to improve Route 8 would be followed by the improvement of
international routes to Argentina. These improvements would focus on
International Routes 1, 2, 3, and 24, connecting Montevideo-Mercedes-Fray
Bentos (Routes I and 2), Montevideo-Paysandu-Salto (Route 3) and
Mercedes-Paysandu (Route 24), as indicated in the SOTECNI study. Total
length of this circuit amounts to about 850 km with many sections in a
seriously deteriorated condition.
6.11      These roads (a) connect the four most important and populous
cities of Uruguay: Montevideo, Mercedes, Paysandu and Salto; (b) traverse the
foremost agricultural zone where the production of dairy products, wheat, and
corn is concentrated; and (c) provide the only land connection with Argentina
over the bridges of Fray Bentos, Paysandu and Salto (close to completion)
across the Uruguay river.
6.12      Of the 850 km, a tranche of about 200 km, recommended under (A), in
need of rehabilitation, strengthening or reconstruction and with the highest
economic priority, would be selected. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that Vialidad would (a) establish, at the time
of completion of the study under (A) above, a list setting forth the sections
for which detailed engineering would be done, and (b) furnish such list to the
Bank for its approval. About 20 specialists, and also supporting technicians,



- 25 -
would be required-to carry out complete final engineering designs. The study,
to be carried out by consultants, would last 12 months (about 240 man-months)
and would be divided into three or four contracts. A consulting firm could
participate in one or more contracts.
C.   Transport Planning
6.13      As mentioned in paragraph 1.17, TPU of the National Directorate of
Transport within MTOP is presently assisting the Transport Advisory Council in
preparing a national transport plan. This unit, however, would need technical
assistance to pursue and develop its role as the focal point for keeping
information on the transport sector and advising the Government on all matters
related to transport planning and transport policies. The proposed project
would provide technical assistance by individual consultants and/or a consult-
ing firm of about four senior experts for a three-year period with a total of
about 110 man-months.
6.14      The Government has drafted a plan of action to strengthen TPU, which,
inter alia, would include: development of a sectoral information system,
improvement of the models developed during the SOTECNI survey, inter-modal
studies, recommendation of sector policies including tariff/user charge studies,
and preparation and continuous updating of the national transport plan. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would present to the
Bank for approval the plans of action for the transport planning unit for the
years 1980, 1981 and 1982 and staffing and budget requirements of TPU. The
plan of action for 1980 would include the completion, by December 31, 1980, of
an intermodal comparison study initiated under the SOTECNI study which would
serve as a basis for coordination of transport policies and investments.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would send to
the Bank, not later than July 1, 1981, the intermodal comparison study with its
comments and would afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its
views on such study. Annex 4 provides outlined terms of reference and cost
estimates.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) Vialidad to reorganize its accounting system to show, from
1980 onward, itemized expenditures of routine and periodic
maintenance, minor improvements, rehabilitation, major
improvements, reconstruction and construction (para 2.21);
(b) The Government to exchange views annually, during the period
of project implementation, with the Bank on (i) the progress
in the implementation of the road maintenance program financed
with the assistance of the IDB loan and (ii) its overall main-
tenance program and related budgetary proposals in order to
review, in particular, the programs of periodic maintenance for



26 -
paved roads, renewal and acquisition of maintenance equipment
and assistance to the Departments for road maintenance
(para 2.22);
(c)  The Government to finance the local cost of US$29.7 million
equivalent and US$5.0 million of foreign exchange cost, should
the private bank loan not be made (para 4.04);
(d)  Vialidad to be the executing agency for all project components
except the transport sector planning component, which would
be under DNT; the Government to appoint, not later than September 1,
1979, a project coordinator directly responsible to the Minister of
Transport and Public Works to serve as liaison between Vialidad and
all other agencies involved in the execution of the project
(para 4.10);
(e)  schedule for project implementation (para 4.10);
(f)  bidding and contracting procedures for civil works construction
and details of the lots to be bid (para 4.11);
(g)  terms of reference for technical assistance and consulting
services; qualifications, experience, terms and conditions
of employment of all consultants selected for these assignments
to be acceptable to the Bank (para 4.11);
(h)  indicators to be used for monitoring the project; project
completion report to be prepared by the Government within
six months of the loan closing date (para 4.12);
(i)  Vialidad to provide, within its Department of Works, at least
two experienced and qualified engineers as counterparts (para 5.07);
(j)  Vialidad to provide not less than one highway engineer, one
structural engineer and one economist, all with adequate
qualifications and experience as counterparts (para 6.09);
(k)  Vialidad to establish, at the time of the completion of the
four-year program of rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads
and the bridge improvement program, a list setting forth the road
sections for which detailed engineering would be done, and to
furnish such list to the Bank for its approval (para 6.12); and
(1)  the Government to present to the Bank for approval the plans
of action for the transport planning unit for the years 1980,
1981 and 1982 and staffing and budget requirements of TPU and
to send to the Bank not later than July 1, 1981 the intermodal
comparison study with its comments and to afford the Bank a
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its views on such
study (para 6.14).
7.02      A condition of loan effectiveness would be the contracting of
consultants for the supervision of civil works (para 5.07).
7.03      Subject to the above, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$26.5 million equivalent to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay;
the terms would be 15 years, including a three-year grace period.
April 5, 1979



- 27 -                              Table 2.1
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network (1976) 1/
Departmental2,
National Network      Network   2
Pavement Type and Condition                      km       %            km
Cement concrete (G)                             20.7    0.2            _
Cement concrete (P) 4/                         100.2    1.0            -
Cement concrete (B)                              9.9    0.1            _
Asphalt concrete (G)                           591.1    6.0            -
Asphalt concrete (P)                           309.9    3.1            -
Asphalt concrete (B)                             32.4    0.3           _
Double surface asphalt treatment (G)           409.8    4.1           350
Double surface asphalt treatment (P)         1,534.5   15.7           890
Double surface asphalt treatment (B)           441.0    4.5           760
Reinforced priming (G)                         794.7    8.2            -
Reinforced priming (P)                       1,103.2   11.4
Reinforced priming (B)                         260.4    2.7            _
Gravel (G)                                     243.7    2.5           500
Gravel (P)                                   1,535.9   15.8         1,500
Gravel (B)                                   1,834.7   18.8         2,000
Earth (G)                                      407.9    4.3         9,500
Earth (P)                                       14.5    0.1        10,500
Earth (B)                                      120.3    1.2        14,000
Total                 9,764.8  100.0        40,000
1/ The 1976 inventory is the only existing one. No reliable data
existed before.
2/ Estimated figures
3/ (G) = good
4/ (P) = precarious (incipient failure)
5/ (B) = bad
Source: SOTECNI Survey
April 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gasoline and Gas-Oil Consumption
('OOO m3)
Gasol  i n c                                                           Gas-  o i
Year    Ordinary   ICompensated   Super         tSper        Rural use      Other        Toial      Ordinary      Rural .se        Total
compensated
1957      151.2         59.7                 85.3               46.5          5.7        343.4       133.0         23.8           156.8
1958      147.2         44.4           84.4         1 7.4       53.5         1 7.9       3G5.1       1 42.0        27.5           139.5
,CD9        1V9.8      40.3            88.5         20.6       41.3         22.7        353.2        150.1         22.0          172.1
1930      121.0         52.8           93.5         15.5        42.4         13.8        339.0       168.2         23.-           1S5.j
1SG1      113.5         54.1          116.0         17.1        41.6         13.2        355.5       172.7         31.1           203.6
1 SG2     121.7         32.9          136.5         17.4        40.0         1 4.5       364.1       190.3          40.1          233.4
1933      155.0         32.6           99.5         10.0       37.9          17.2        362.3       199.9          43.1'         243.0
1954      17G.4         37.4           99.1         11.5        42.5         15.6        382.5       217.5         51.9           2%9.!
1955   |157.6           38.6           99.1         11.5        42.5         15.6        382.5       217.5          51.S          2c9.4             0
1°     1 133.9          32.8          121.4         21.3        41.9         14.5        365.8       217.0         51. 4          268.4
1937   1 120.1          29.7          129.4         25.2       34.8          14.5        353.7       209.0         50.6           259.6
1 ('5    11 J. 9        29.9          129.0         22,5        30.93        12.9        341:1       224.1          54.01)        27s.0
1969'!   f 133.0        23.1          150.3         14.6        26.2         13.9        361.1       252.2         61.1           313.3
I1,0      1 1t'12.1       _           164.7            -        23.2         15.3        345.3       289.1          55.3          344
1971      136.1           _           187.4           -        25.8          11.3        360.9       324.1         51.4.          3i 7J.5
19`2      124". I                     198.9           -        20.            S.8        353.0       3143.2         49.8          39rj.1
1913      119.3           -           167.8               *    19.4          11.6        318.1       333.9         53.0           3&C.9
1S974     122.0           -           121.3           -        16.3          12.6        278.8       322.6          56.8          379.4
1975      1 4c.8          -           112.2           -        14.1          13.0        280.1       338.1          67.6          405.7
197G      139.6           -            99.9                    11.7          12.3        263.5       378.9         57.3           43;.2
Source: ANCAP                                                                                                                                          N
.
April 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Classification: Geomtr,ic Standards
Mi".  Length of         Crosa Section
C.P..ity                                                                       ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Minisoa  Sight Distaoc    Ver,tical Cone  Road Bad           Fill SlopesBide                                               Inctraection
(Co,udTafcDesign                               maaioo            Milnim.- Radios        Mxins  Gradient         Stopping       Pssn            Tpea              Miniets       -Faveet    Without        With       Crido           5p     .o   a          al       Ra
Category      at 20th Yea)         Terraic   Speed    Soeerslevtioc   Deoirable  Abaoluca  Oeai,,ahle  Abanlute   Night  Day  Baa.  Aha.   Daa.  Ahs.  Saga                    width       Width      Goardrail  Guardcail   way  width   Load   Min. Width    Cross    Cross
Special    Vehi/dey annua
Ave,rage                   -     koo/h                          e             e                       Z          e.                                /I    %                                 Grad.       GCad.             eIn                                         -
High Standard
Special        3000 (4 lens.)   Flat 3%    150                 H             555          400           3          3         lBS   ORG   360            120   70    40          24.00      2.700          1:4        1,2          2x8O0      C1H 514.4      60      Dif Lay   Dif Lay
Special        3000 (4 la.s.)   Billy 5%.   90                 0            400           300           3          5         155   155   310             90   50    55          24.00      2a700          1:4        1:2          2.8O00                   70          c      u
Special        3000 (4 laces)   Mountain.   HO                 H             3H0          225           5          7         130   130   260             60   35    30          24.00      2e700          1:3        1:15         2e8O0                    HO
First       lOOO toS300O(2 la)  Flat           ISO             a             500          400           3          3         OHS   155   HSO  650        60   50    40          12.00      7.00           1:4        1:2          HUH        C1H 514.4    60
Firstt      1000 tnSO000(2 la)  Hilly           HO             R            400           300           3          3         155   130   650  500        60   35    35          12.00      7.00           1:4        1:2          HUHoo                     60c,u
Firsc         0 lOtoS30OO(2lI-)  Mountain,.  HO                H             300          223           5          7         130   110   500  400        45   25    25          10.00      7.00           1:3        1:15         500                0     60
Msdiom Pype
SIntend      550 to. 1000         Flat         90              0            400           300           3          4         155   150   655  500    60    35    35             12.HO      7.00           1:4        1:2          BOO        C18 514.4     60       Dif Lay   Dif  ay
Secnd        SOStolOOO            Hilly        HO              H             100          225           4          6         130   110   SRI  400    45    25    25             12.00      7.00           1:3        1,15         000                      60
Secon.d      SOOctolOSO           Mountain.   70               H             225          175           3          7         105    95   400  300    30    20    20             10.00      7.00           1:3        1:15         BOO                      60
Low Cost
Thi,rd       100 to 300           F. -rHilly 00                H             300          225           4          6         130   110  500   400    45    25    25             10.00      6.00           1:5        1:15         600                      50       Lvl         ee
Thir~d       lOOtoSoO             Mountai.-   70               H             223          173           6          H         105    HS  4Sf   300    30    20    20              H.0       6.00           13         1:15                                  so$ ~ 51;H 5  Lovel    L_.Iv
Fourch         100                F. orHilly 70                H             225          175           5          7         105    HS  400   300    30    20    20              0.00      5.50           1: 3       1:15         400        C13 501.OH    30        Level    Covet
Fourth         100                Mountain.  60                H             175          125           7         10          HS    HO '900   225    25    15    15              BOO0      5.50           1:3        1:15         400                       30       Level    Level
Soo-t:  SOTECNI Survey 
Ap,ril 1979



-. 30 -                              Table 4.1
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Disbursed in        Cumulative Disburse-
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Quarter          ment at end of Quarter      %
FY 1980
March 31, 1980                         0.2                     0.2                0.1
June 30, 1980                          0.3                     0.5               0.2
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                     1.0                     1.5               6.0
December 31, 1980                      2.0                     3.5              13.0
March 31, 1981                         3.0                      6.5             24.0
June 30, 1981                          4.0                    10.5              40.0
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                     5.0                    15.5              58.0
December 31, 1981                      3.0                    18.5               70.0
March 31, 1982                         3.0                    21.5               81.0
June 30, 1982                          3.0                     24.5              92.0
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                     1.5                     26.0             98.0
December 31, 1982                      0.3                     26.3             99.0
March 31, 1983                         0.1                     26.4             99.0
June 30, 1983                          0.1                     26.5            100.0
Assumptions:  Loan signature          : May 1979
Invitations to bid    : May 1979
Award of Contracts    : December 1979
Comnencements of Works:  February 1980
Completion of Works       January  1982
Source: Mission Estimates
April 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
DeniA. Standards of Route 8
E.i.tip Route 8                                                                                    Propo..ed Route 8
Vntnbility                                                     diavement  Shouders VpiWllithy  Design                    Pa ount                 Shoulders             Construction Costs
SectionLength   Terrain  ((450m)                      Surface Typoe       L ne    Na. af   1dLeth   (C450e)   S                                            Surf-ce  Lass    No.      Surfare  Width         (April 1979. USS'OOO)
Sektion            (7.) -       & Condition       Width    Lanes.     & Condition      (m)            tkm         (T      (ko/h).1gp    Width  of Lanes    Type          (m)        per kh              Tctsl
1.     Punts Ri.les-                7     Rolling    28          C.C  (Red)                                              1.80            4.6         100      100   A.C.l'    3.75  F.L.D.H.-/  S.S.T.-/ 2.40          603.6               2,777.0
Juortion Route 102         47      R1ig       2           CC!/ B)               3.00     2       G.  (Bod)6062770
2.    Ju-ction Route 102.
Junction Route 101        11.3    Roiling    31           C.C.  (Rod)           3.00     2       G.  (BRd)        1.50           11.2         100      100   A.C.       3.75  P.L.D.H.    S.S.T.   2.40         622.9               6,976.9
3.     Junction Route 101-
Pendo                      1.7    Flat         8        D.S.TA./(Bd)            2.90     2       G.  (BRd)        1.50            1.6         100      100   A.C.       3.75  F.L.D.h.    S.S.T.   2.40         787.3               1,259.8
4.     Pando-                                                                                                                                                                                           7
Jun ction Sle.             8.3    Rolling    18         D.S.T.  (Rod)           3.60     2       G.  (Rod)        2.00            8.3          49      100   A.C.       3.60     2         A.B.R.- 2.40         260.7               2,164.2
5.     Junction Olson-
S..a                      18.0    Rolling      8        D.S.T.  (Rod)           3.35     2       G.  (Rod)        1.30           18.4          69     .100   A.C.       3.60     2         5.5.T.   2.40        348.8               6,418.5
6.     Sorc-
Junction Route 9          10.7    Rolling      9        D.S.T.  (BRd)           3.50     2       G.  (BRd)        1.30            9.00         64      100   A.C.       3.60     2         S.S.T.   2.40        318.0               2,862.5
7.    Junction Roots 9-
Junction Route 81         25.0    Rolling    14         D.S.T.  (Red)           2.57     2       G.  (Bad)        1.50           24.1          81      100   A.C.       3.60     2         S.S.T.   2.40        320.5               7,725.9
5.     Ju-tno. Route 81-
Arroyo Cap anero Chico    33.9    Rolling    13         D.S.T.  (Rod)           3.03     2       G.  (BRd)        1.50           33.4          60      100   D.5.T.    3.60      2         S.S.T.   1.40        267.6               8,937.4
9.     Arroyo Camp..ero Chico-
Arr-yn thrm raia          25.9    Rolling    20         D.S.T.  (BRd)           3.07     2       G.  (Bad)        1.50           25.6          72      100   D.S.T.    3.60      2        5.5.T.   1.40         249.6               6.390.5
139.5                                                                                                 136.2                                                                                              45,512.7
1/ C.C.         C-ent Concrete
2) G.           .c.v-i
3/  A.C.     =  Aephalt Concrete
F/ P.L.D.B. _  Four-Lane Divided Highway
5/  S.S.T.   - Single Surface Asphalt Tre-tment
6 D D.S.T.  = ouble Surface Aephelt Treatmnt
7/ A.B.R.   -Aspheltic Rose Reinforemeent
Source:  INVIAL Feasibility Study
April 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Flows
Heavy Traffic in Percen-   Generated Traffic in Per-   Diverted Traffic in Per-                     Average Annual Growth
Normal Traffic 1978                tage of Norm1a Traffic       centage of Normal Traffic   centage of Normal Traffic                       1978 - 2001
Length       Light                                                                     Light                            Light                        Light
Section                  (knR)     Vehicles      Buaea      Trucka      Total        .ehicla   Buses   Trucks                                Vhicles       Trucks         Vehicles   Buses   Trucks   Total
1. Punta Rielee-
Junction Route 102             4.7        1,364         629         780       2,773                50.8               2.6        12.1     9.7         14.7        14.7            2.9       2.2      2.6         2.7
2. Junction Route 102-
Junction Route 101            11.3        1,034         452         717       2,203                53.1               2.0        11.5     9.4         14.7        14.7            2.9       2.2      2.6        2.7
3. Junction Route 101-
Pando                         1.7         1,404         497       1,063       2,964                52.6               2.7        12.2     9.0          1.7         1.7            2.9       2.2      2.7        2.7
4. Pando-
Junction Oloe                 8.3           715         190       1,319       2,224                67.9               2.6         8.2     8.5          1.7         1.7            2.9       2.3      2.7        2.7
5. Junction Olos-
Soca                         18.0           388         111         684      1,183                 67.2               2.4         8.6     8.1'         1.7        .1.7            3.0       2.3     2.8         2.8
6. Soca-
Junction Route 9             10.7           383         106         694      1,183                 67.6               8.4       15.3    14.4            -            -            3.0       2.3      2.8        2.8
7. Junction Route 9-
Junction Route 81            25.0           226          64        314         604                 62.6              4.5         12.4    10.0          _            -             3.0       2.2     2.7         2.8
8. Junction Route 81-
Arroyo Canpanero Chico       33.9           249          72         311        632                 60.6              3.8        10.3      9.2          -            -             3.1       2.1     2.7         2.8
9. Arroyo Campanero Chico-
Arroyo llarmaraJa            25.9           130          39         197        366                 64.5              3.0        10.8      9.0          -             -            3.7       2.2     3.1         3.2
Source:  INVIAL Feasibility Study
April 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Section                           Best Estimates                                                          Sensitivity Test
Benefits Without             2-Year Delay in
________________ __   Cost Increased by 15%    Bene. Decreased by 25%              Time Savings             Project Implementation
Economic    Net Present  First Year  Economic    Net Present    Economic    Net Present    Economic    Net Present    Economic    Net Present
Return         Value        Return      Return          Value         Return          Value          Return         Value          Return         Value
1. Punta Rieles-
Junction Route 102             30.4        18,750.1       38.6         26.8         12,078.5         23.3         11,276.6          20.8         8,694.0          20.9        12,439.5
2. Junction-Route 102-
Junction Route 101             21.3        24,638.9       20.8         18.7        20,490.9          16.2         11,524.6          14.7         8,299.2          16.3        14,967.4
3. Junction Route 101-
Pando                          22.4         5,032.8       21.8         19.8          4,279.9         17.1          2,519.8          15.0         1,636.1          17.1         3,191.1
4. Pando-
Junction Ol-  s               40.3         25,290.2       42.8         35.9        23,970.7          31.6         16,768.4         34.8        19,893.0          27.5         19,018.4
5. Junction Olmos-                18.7        16,546.6       20.5         16.3        12,661.5          13.9         5,934.8          15.3         8,819.3          14.3          8,330.7
Soca
6.  Soca-                         35.6        27,072.0       36.9         31.6        25,341.9          27.8        17,420.4          32.0        22,584.5          24.9         20,004.2
Junction Route 9
7. Junction Route 9-              14.3         7,648.0       19.8         12.2         2,995.9          10.1        -2,017.5          11.8         1,901.0          10.7           -878.9
Junction Route 81
8. Junction Route 81-             15.1        12,270.4       14.8         13.1         6,824.5          11.1           126.3          12.7         4,972.1          12.1          3,496.4
Arroyo Campanero Chico
9. Arroyo Campanero Chico-       10.8           -522.9       10.9          9.1        -4,207.2           7.4        -6,532.6           9.0        -3,764.7           8.8        -4,814.2
Arroyo !4armaraja              -- 
Total   19.9       136,726.1        21.3        17.4        104,436.6         15.0         57.020.8          16.0        73,034.5          15.2        75,754.6
1/ An 11% opportunity cost of capital was used.
Source: INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
April 1979



- 34 -                          Table 5.4
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Incremental Analysis
Stage II          Net Present
in Year  1          Value  2/
Alternative (i) a
Section 1                                         2                2,444.7
5                2,454.5
10                2,701.8
Section 2                                         2                5,308.4
5                4,729.9
10                4,426.4
Section 3                                         2                  776.9
5                  568.6
10                  386.2
Alternative (i) b
Section 1                                         2                1,657.5
5                1,583.2
10                1,734.1
Section 2                                         2                3,239.3
5                2,456.8
10                1,919.4
Section 3                                         2                  380.0
5                  142.2
10                 - 73.8
3/
Alternative (ii)
Section 1                                                          3,211.3
Section 2                                                          4,491.1
Section 3                                                            272.7
1/   The analysis considered residual values also for Stage II in year 2, 5 or 10.
2/   An 11% opportunity cost of capital was used.
3/   Construction cost of this alternative amounted to 85% of a four-lane divided
highway.
Source: INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
April, 1979



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consulting Services for Civil Works Supervision
Outline of Terms of Reference
Objective
1.        Consultants will carry out the supervision of the civil works for
reconstruction of Route 8 between Punta Rieles (Km 13) and Arroyo de Marmaraja
(Km 153). The first 17.5 km (Punta Rieles-Pando) would be a four-lane
divided highway; from Pando to the end, a two-lane highway. The consultant
work is expected to take 30 months.
Scope
2.        The scope of works to be performed by the consultant will be dictated
by normal engineering and management practices for projects of this nature,
including the assignment of the personnel required to perform adequately, but
not necessarily limited to, the following functions:
(a)  review bids received from contractors and make recommendations
to Vialidad regarding award of the contract;
(b)  review proposed schedules and procedures and make recommendations
for inspection and construction, quality control, measurement of
partial and final construction quantities, payments to contractors,
and acceptance of the completed works;
(c)  furnish technical advice and assistance to Vialidad inspection
personnel;
(d)  review work certifications and make recommendations to Vialidad
for payment to the contractor;
(e)  perform adequate check tests on the general fill, subgrade,
sub-base, base and pavement courses as well as the concrete
work related to bridges and drainage structures; and
(f)  prepare monthly and quarterly reports on the work progress
for transmittal to the Bank.
Basic Tests
3.        Before final acceptance of the work, the consultant will perform
a roughness survey and Benkleman Beam deflections properly documented
and evaluated as a requisite for the termination of the consulting work.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
4.        Basic testing required by the consultant supplementing regular
testing by Vialidad as follows:
Review:
(a) weekly work schedule and comment thereon;
(b) job mix formulas--all courses--weekly;
(c) gradation and density of aggregates--all courses at 200 meter
intervals.
Obtain:
(d) stabilization tests--all courses if and when necessary;
(e)  concrete job mix formulas for headwalls, wing walls, footing
walls, and slabs in culverts;
(f) review results of concrete compression testing, water cement
ratio, and slump tests;
(g) review of job mix formula and Marshall method pavement testing--
percent bituminous material, stability, flow, and voids
relationships.
Carry out:
(h) periodic check on the possible hydrophilic nature of aggregates
and use of anti-stripping agent in bituminous mixes; and
(i) any other tests necessary for the acceptability of aggregates
such as hardness, soundness, and deleterious content that may
be required.
5.        It is the responsibility of the consultant to assist in the formula-
tion of an efficient and sound inspection policy. It is desirable to report
on practices that require correction or reconstruction immediately in order
to effectively process the work without delays.
6.        No field changes will be permitted without written authorization
from Vialidad.
7.        Under advice by the consultant, claims by the contractor must be
reported in writing within 30 days of occurrence to Vialidad and the action
taken by Vialidad must be prompt, providing that the deciding factors such
as testing are completed.
8.        A flow sheet must accompany each contractor's list of equipment and
personnel to indicate that the contractor understands the work and obligations
involved.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
Personnel and Cost
9.        Personnel required for the supervision must include the following
minimum qualified staff:
(a) one project engineer (project manager) with at least 10 years
of combined field and office experience in the inspection of
highway construction. Background must include soils, pavement
and drainage structures as well as experience related to the
evaluation and review of contractor capability, awards, schedules,
payments, technical assistance and the periodic report writing
which is necessary;
(b) two resident engineers with at least five years of field experience
in the inspection of highway construction, including soils, pave-
ments, and concrete related to drainage structures;
(c) one assistant engineer;
(d) two soils laboratory technicians qualified to run and analyze the
required tests listed in basic tests to be performed;
(e) four qualified laboratory assistants to sample and run the required
tests listed in basic tests to be performed.
10.       Personnel noted in (a), (b) and (d) should be fluent in Spanish.
11.       The consultant will furnish adequate transportation for the personnel
involved and maintain two field soils laboratories (such laboratory equipment to
be supplied by the consultant) properly equipped to do the necessary testing.
An office with secretarial capability and communications service is required
and should be provided by the consultant.
12.       The estimated total cost would be US$1,800,000 with a foreign
exchange component of US$900,000 (246 man-months).
March 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consulting Services for Civil Works Supervision
Outline of Terms of Reference
Staffing and Scheduling
(in months)
S sstaffing       1  2  3  4 5  6  7  8  9 1011121314151617181920 21 2223241252627 28 29                             alm/m
1  civil                                                                                      T
engineer
(project30
manager)                                                                                           J3
2 resident
engineers                                       48
S assistant   a    i
engineer--24
2 soils
laboratory                                                                   -48
technicians
4 assistant                                                 96
laboratory
technicians   F                                                                            Total man/months       246
Source: MTOP and Mission
March 1979
tn
rt



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating and Time Costs for Selected Sections
TRAFFIC AND SAVIIG SJMARY FOR VEHICLE TYPE  1 CAUTOMOVILLS ) ON SECTION Noe  1 (P.RIELEs-E.Rl02)
NOTE" MNETARY UjNI1' IS NUEVOS PESUJS SAVINGS ARL GIVEN IN THOUSANDS.
OPERATINS COST / KMi/
p DTEmTI AL LbAILY    X          ACTLIAL DAILY TRAFFLC   __        i;;Hu .....                   SAVINGS FROm    1/
YLAR   TRAFFIL, COWNTS  tiRO"NH    NpRRAc GENRATLD               TOTAL      PTOUT         PROJECT            tOOO)
1978            945     *  2.6.           916             3           0       0*000         0.000                 0.00
1979            972         2*05          944             0           0       0.000         0.000                 0.00
19B0           1030         2.86          912             0           0       O.uOO         0.000                 0.00
19E1           1029         2.od         1000             0           0       OOO           0oOO                 0.00
182           i059         2.0J         lOUo            30       1059        1.341         1,230              221.58
1953           10b9         2.03         10i6           31        1089        1.341         1.230              228.50
1914           1120         2.53         106b            32       1120        1.342         1.230              235,72
19C&5          1153         2*d          111.9           33       1153        1.j42         1.230              243*10
1986           1186         2.8          ilSl           34        119         1.342         1e230              2504.5
19E7           1220         2eO          11bA           3c        1220        1B343         1e230              258.78
19E6           i255         20d          121ti           37       1255        1*343         1.230              267.13
1969           i291         2*.0         125;           3d        1291        1.*43         1.230              275.66
1490           1329         2.d,         120i           3v        1329        I*344         1e230              2b4i55
1991           13b7         2.63         .13724         43        1367        1.344         1&230              293*73
1992           1406         2.bi         13bL           4e        140o        1.J45          .230              303*31
1993           1447         2.03         140'.          44        1447        16445         1.230              313.20
1994           14$6         2od3         1444           44        1488d       1i46          10230              323042
1995           1 51         2.63         1465           46        1 51        1aj46         1 .230             334.0d
1 1996         15(5         2.d          15e6           4?        15 5        1.347         1  _230            345S19
1997           1 621        2.83         1571            49       162         1.3 47        1.230              356.69
1998           1Q67         2.b3        1i61            51        1b66        1.348         1.230              368.69
1999           1715         2.3d         16 b,          5i        1715        1.J49         1.230              381*09
20"0           1765         2.bi         1711           54        1765        1.349         1.230              393*94
2001           1816         2.03         1 760          5b    -116            1.350         1.230              407.46
1/ Includes Time Costs
Source: INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
April 1979                                                                                                            0
_.



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PRDJECT
Vehicle Operating and Time Costs for Selected Sections
TRAFFIC AND SAVINGi SbJ4ARY FOR VEHICLE TYPc  3 CUMNI8US               ) ON SECTION No.   1 (PaRIELES"E.RI02
NUTE   MJNETkRY JNIT IS NULVOS PESUS.  SAVINGS ARL GIVEN IN THOUSANDS.
OPLRATING COST / Kt4'
ACTUAL DAILY TRAFFIC                                            SAVINfli FROM  l/
POTENTIA6 6AILY      %wITHi;uT                                                     WITH          OPERA AIN(. C OSrT
Yi.AR    TRAFFIC CORNTS   OROFH    NRiMA6        GENERATLtD      TOTAL      PHUJLCT       PROJ CT            (o00)
1976            704     *  2*22           629             0           0       0.00          0.000                 0.00
1979            720         2.2i          643             0           0       0.000         0,0J0                 0.00
1950            736         2.22          657             0           0       0.u00         0.000                 0.00
19el            752         2.22          6t2             0           0       0000         0.000                 0. a00
14°2            769         2.22          667          8d          769        4.194         3*32a            1,864*93
963            766         2:22          792           84         786        4 /95         30323            IJ9070
19£4            6D4         2.22          717           80         d03        46196         3.323            1,950.25
19e5            821         2.22          7t3                      o 621      4 797         30324            1,994.41   1
19.56           840         2.22          749           90         039        4.199         3.324            2#039o6    0
19F7            a 58        2.22          7tO           92         b5d        40 *0         3.32" 4          2#085.81
19Eb            877         2.22        ,Tt3            94         877        4' 01         3*325            2,133*21
19E9            897         2.2~2         800o          90         6396       4.002         36325            2,181.67
19SU            917         2.22          81d           9o         916        44ut)4        3.326            2,231.27
1991            937         2.22         866           101         937        4oQ05         3.326            2,282*03
1992            958         2.22          815          10o         957        4o006         3.32?            2p334*00
1993            979         2.2i          8T3          1o0         979        4.608         3.327            2,357.20
19954          lOQ1         2.22           SI3         Ido        1Q00        4 ol0         36320            2,441*67
1994S           03          2.22          912          110        1022        4o01l         3.328            2,497.43
1996           1043         2.22          91           li         12          4.013         3.3,29           20554o53
199S       X~046        2.22          9.i3         112        1G45        '4.°13         3392545
1997           10b9         2.22          9S3          Ili        1068        4.015         30329            2#612*98
1999           1117         2.22          974          120        1092        4.016         30331            2,612.83
20C0           1142         2 22                       120        Ilu4        4  12083 .331                  2,796 i
s  2o01   1107  2 22   1040          126        1166        4002          3.332            2 ,861. 1
1/ Includes Time Costs
Source: INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
April 1979                                                                                                          0;m



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating and Time Costs for Selected Sections
TRAFFIC AND SAVING SU44ARY FUR VEHICLE TYPE  5 (CAMION pLS.  ) ON SECTION NO*  1 CP.RIELESE*Rl02)
NUTE   M3NLtARY JNIT IS NULVOS PESJSo  SAVINGS ARL GIVEN IN THOUSANDS.
OPERATING COST / KM-
ACTUAL DAILY TRAFFIC                                           SAVIN?  FROm
YEAR   ERAFFIC C06NI    iR3"H    NiR,AL           GEN;RATLD      TOTAL      PRUiLCT      ;PROJgCT          0E     G  CO
1978            142     *  2.63           132             0           0       0000         0°000°                 0.00
1979            146         2.bi          136             0           0       0i000         0.000                 0.00
19t0            149         2*o3          139             0           0       0.000         0.000                 0.00
1961            153         2.63          143             0           0       0.'Q00        0'000                 0.00
19E2            158         2.63          147            11        15d        201 ?         26166               148.94
19F3            162         2.63          151            1i        162        2.(17         2.166               152.94
1954            166         2.03          1~5            11        166   ~ 'e7i7            2.166               157.03
19e5            11          2s6o          159            1         1j71       2.1 7         2.166               161.24
19E6            175         2Tb           1bi            I gS                  .*/1?        2 166               165.56
19E7            iTo         2.60 4b                      12        180        2.117         2.166               170.00
1986            185         2.63          172            1j        185        2.717         2.166               174.56
1989            190         2.oj3         l7             14        190        2.1 7         26166               179.24
19;9            195         2.b6s 11                     1s        195        2.117         2.166               ld4.04
1991            200         2.6j          106            14         o00       2T17         2.166               168.9?
1992            205         2.63          191            14        205        2.117         2.166               194.04
1993            211         2*o6          196            14        11         2.t17         2.166               199.24
1994            216         2.64          2u2            ID        216        2.it7         2 166              204o5b
1995            222         2,6s          207           1         222        2.717         2.166              210.06
1996            228         2*65          212            16        228        2.1 7         2.166              215.69
1997            234         2a6           21d            1o        d34        2.71 7        2.166              221.47
1998            241         2obt          224            l         i4j        2 f17         21166              227s40
1999            247         2.6           230            1         247        2.717         2 166              23iS0
2000            2j4         2.63          2i6            17        254        2.117         2*166              2 39  06
20012 260                   2.64                         la        260        2.6717        2.166              246.18
1/ Includes Time Costs
Source: INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
April 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating and Time Costs for Selected Sections
TRAFFIC AN) SAVING SUMMARY FOR VEHICLE TYPE 1 (AUTOMOVILES ) ON SECrION NO. 9 (AoCAMP-MARb0ANAJ)
VOTE   MONE.TARY UNIT IS NUEVOS PESOS.   SAVINGS ARE GIvEN TN THOUSANDS.
*  _ ACTUAL DAILY TRArFIC          _OPERATING COST / Kbl'M
'DT;NTIAL DAILY                                    -------            WITHOUT          WITH           OPLRATING  COSTS
Y7E%R   TR?AFFIC  COUNTS  GROWTH    NORMAL           GENERATED       TOTAL      PROJECT        PROJECT              (000)
1973              98          3.65            94             0            0        O.000          0.000                 O0OO
193?             101          3. 6S           97             0            0        0°000          00 0 0n                 :
193)        ~~~~~105     3.69            101             0           0        0.0000          0.000                 0.00
1931             In 361                        5             0           100:000                  060)0.00
1933             1i3          3 69           tt8             4         113         1 °79          1 229               168o66
1933             117          3-65            112            4         117         1.379          1.229               175.08
121         3.69            17              4         121        1*379          1*229                lF1.45
1935             125          3.65           121             5         125         1.379          1.229               188o12
1935             1t0          3.69           125             5         130         1.79           1.229               195:04
193r         li~15       3  63o                          5.        135        1.379           1.229              125.0 16
193?             175          3.69           135             5         140         1:379          1:229               209.61
1939             14           3.69           139             5         145         1 379          1 229               217.30
199)            1JD           3.65           145             6         150         1.380          1.229               225o.31
klj56      {3.6r,5          i50             6         156        ;'380          1.229               233:5k
6 C;                                 6  I: I :8 8             I23 
192;             173          3.69           16r             6         173         1.380          1.229               260*27
1995             1M0         .3.69,          173             7         179         1.380          1.229               269.87
193S             1P6          3.65          }17              7         186         1.380          1.229               279.82
I19 ?7           1 93         3 .6r5         1 86            7         1 93        1.:3 80        1.,2 29             2 9 0.1 8
19 .:    2n3                  3. 65          192             7         200         1 38g          1.229               30086
299;             207          3.69           200             8         2037        1.380          1.229               311.83
20))             215          3.6r           207             8         215         1.380          1a229                3  42
223         3.69           214              8         223        18                                  3 1.3294
1/ Includes Time Costs
Source:  INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates                                                                      Z.-
April 1979
.  S~~~~~~~~0



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating and Time Costs for Selected Sections
TRAFFIC  AVJ  SAVING  S6MMARY  rOR  VEHICLE  TYPE   3 (OMNIRUS                  ) Oki SECTION  NO.  9 (AoCAMP-MAR?AR4J
NITE-  MnNLTARY UNI T IS NUEVOS PESOS.  SAVINGS ARF GIVEN  TN THOUSANDS,
J  L T 5   G 9 O W T H    N n R M ^ L  _ACTUAL DAILY TRAFFIC  --ERATING  COS P---               SAVr'NGS FrRa  1/
VEA~T AFIC COlUNTS   GROWTH4   NflRMAL              GENERATED        TOTAL       PROJECT         PROJECT(D
April43                         2.2?             3               0      0               01000           0.000
197;         ~~44          22?      ~       40                                     0.n0o                                   n .00n
45  2.?)             ~~~~~~~~41       0                      0.000000                                000
1931               46           2.2;             42              0            0         0.000           0.000                   n.oo
I1 Q3                           2 ?  2 .?4 i3'                   4           4~ 7            3          3.5 42               5 83 .9 4
0  2-Pp  44             5           48         4*P94          ~~~~~~~~3.542         596.83 
193',4                          2.244                                                  4.895           3543                  651.23
1933    ~~~~~~~ 4 ~~2.?'                  6                          51         4.5395          3.543                637.19
193'r              95           2.2P             4So             5           53         4*0395          3.543                6510.23
1;3?       95          ~~~2.2?           Si                          56        4'i895           3.544                6t.5.  7
2.??             5.,             5           56        -489             3.544                695  17
19??       99         ~~~2?,2           5.j              6           59         4.595           3.545                726.06
1 9 ~~3       6 3          2 .2?,     ~      4              6           60         4.5 q95         3.545                714P.01
19;~~                  2.2~              55              6           61         4.895           3.546                7r5.29.
I 95 ;               3         2.2'?,            57              6           6.3        4.5J95          3o5 4 6              77-4 .9 2
t9;5               Ail         2.?,;             51              6           64          .9354
1Wf                 A5         2.2?              5               6           65         4.596           3.547                791-.9.0
i;;3          ~~~~~A7      2.?)>            6o              6           67         4.5I96          3.548                826.95
6 8   ~  2.220            6 2             6           6 8        4, 59 6         3 454 8              8 a5.0 5
70          2.2,             63              7           70         4.563.4                              835
23)1!               71         2.2?              65                    .    71          4.96            3.549                862375
1/  Includes Time Cos ts
Source: INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
0%



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating and Time Costs for Selected Sections
1RAFFIC AN) SAVING SUMMARY FOR VEHICLE TYPE 5 (CAMION PESo ) ON SECTION NO, 9 (A*CAMP-MARMARAJ:
VnTE-  MnNLTARY UNIT IS NUEVOS PESOS.   SAVINGS ARE GIVEN  TN THOUSANDS*
fnPERATING COST / KM
ACTUAL DAILy TRAFFIC             -------_________                SAVINGS FR3  1/
*JTLNTIAL DATLy-                                                  WITHnUT         WITH           OPLRATING COSTS
YEk?    TRAFFIC COUNTS  GRIWTH    NORMAL          GENERATED       TOTAL      PROJECT       PROJECT
19T3            109      *  3.17           101            0           0        0.n°0          n.000                0.00
1 97            11 3        3.1 ?          1104           0           ()       0.O0           0.000n               0 0)
193)            116         3.17           1n7 I                      °        07000          0.0r0                 .: o
1931            1           3.1?           I i            0                    0 0.000        n.Ifn(O              0.00
19,2            124         3.17           114           10         124        2o717          2.101              712.14
1933            12R         3. 17            8           1 0        128        2.717          2.101              734.36
193k            132         3@.12?                                  I lo  132  2;717          211                7 57 . 8   49
19~~~~~  136 ~~~~~~3. 1?            1 25          1013 6                2.17.0 1                          7P0.90
1935            1a0         3.1s           129           11         l)         2.717          2.101             c805.27
s137  14 4  3 .           133           1          144        2.717          2.101              8130.39
1933            la4         3.17           137           11         14i        2.717          2.101              856.30
193;            193         3.1^           1t2           12         153        2.717          2.101               Bt,3.02
198       3.1,           1 6            12        158        2.717          2.101              91 0.57
3.,                                     6.1A                                       96 .2: 
1I;3            173         3.1?           ib7           163        173        2.717          2.101 (9984 8
14              1 79        3.17           1e5           164         79        2.717          2.101            1029.a63
1995            2105        3.17          .t99           15 119                2.717         2P.11             1;61*876
199?            196         3.17>          176           15         196        2.717          2.101            1129.089
1 9 93          20?)        3. 12          16~7          1 6        202        2.717          2.1 01           1,P1 64.o2 7
19?9            209         3.17           193           16         209        2.717          2.1.01           1,200.60
215  3.17         ~~~~~~~~~~1997            21 5       2 71 7           I              1 I,2 3 8  n6
23)1            222         3.1? IP5                     17         222        2.717            j 01           1,276.68
l/ Includes Time Costs
Source: INVIAL Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
April 1979



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Four-Year Program for Rehabilitation, Strengthening and Reconstruction
of Roads and a Bridge Improvement Program
Consulting Services
Outline of Terms of Reference
A.   Four-Year Program Objective
1.        The main objectives of the program are to:
(a) develop an adequate methodology to determine when rehabilitation,
strengthening or reconstruction of roads should be needed;
(b) select a list, based on economic priority, of about 400 km
which would form the four-year program of rehabilitation,
strengthening and reconstruction;
(c) provide the necessary counterpart training to Vialidad to
carry out similar programs in the future;
(d) assist Vialidad in the supervision of detailed engineering of
roads and updating of the economic evaluation based on final
designs of the first two-year tranche of the four-year program
(200 km); and
(e) develop, for the first time in Uruguay, specific standards for
pavement design.
Scope
2.        The study would review methodologies currently in use for estab-
lishing a final methodology to determine when rehabilitation, strengthening
or reconstruction should be needed. With the SOTECNI Study as a basis,
Vialidad would be assisted in undertaking kield studies and deflections of
existing pavements in relation to subgrade slpport, climatic conditions and
traffic, analyzing all the data obtained. A clear understanding of the
relationship between vehicle operating costs and pavement conditions should
be developed. Pavement conditions should be characterized by measurements
of deflection, roughness and skid resistance. Equipment for measurement of
roughness and skid resistance should be provided by the consultants. The
other equipment is available at Vialidad. Recommendations would be made on
organization, staffing methods and training of personnel.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
3.        The study would select about 400 km of highest priority roads
in need of improvement (rehabilitation, strengthening or reconstruction)
and would be the basis of Vialidad's investment program for the next
four years.
4.        The detailed engineering of roads of the first two-year tranche
would be carried out by other consultants. However, the consultants for the
four-year program would supervise the detailed engineering and would carry
out the economic evaluation based on final designs (Chart II). The develop-
ment of specific standards for pavement design would be carried out under
periodic consultations with ANCAP. These standards would apply not only to
new pavements but also to rehabilitation and strengthening of existing
ones.
B.  Bridge Improvement Program Objective
5.        The main objectives of the bridge improvement program are to:
(a) carry out an inventory of bridges;
(b) obtain the permissible load for each bridge;
(c) classify the bridges depending on the urgency of attention
required;
(d) prepare an economic feasibility study on the improvement or
replacement of bridges; and
(e) review the present weight and vehicle regulations.
Scope
6.        The study would review the methodology currently being used for the
technical and economic evaluation of bridges, as well as practices used for
the preparation of cost estimates and bid documents. Recommendations would be
made on organization, staffing methods, training and equipment necessary to
maintain a bridge improvement program in the future by Vialidad. Recommenda-
tions would also be made for updating the present weight and vehicle regula-
tions. As a result of this study, Vialidad would be able to determine optimum
solutions for bridges of the whole network.
C.   Personnel for Both Studies
7.        Personnel required will include:
(a) a project manager (highway engineer) with at least 10 years of
combined field and office experience in highway planning and
construction. He should have experience in technical assistance
and project management. His background must include soils, pavement
and drainage structures, experience in review and preparation of
contract documents and an in-depth knowledge of highway planning;



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
(b) one highway engineer with at least five years of combined
field and office experience for highway planning and construction;
(c) one pavement expert with five years of experience in pavement research
and design;
(d) one traffic engineer with at least five years of experience in
highway traffic and transport policy;
(e) one structural engineer with at least ten years of experience in
design and construction of bridges;
(f) one transport economist with at least five years of experience
in highway transportation;
(g) one systems analyst with three years of relative experience;
(h) two surveyors with at least two years of experience in highway
design and construction; and
(i) three draftsmen.
8.        All the experts, except the systems analyst, the surveyors, and the
draftsmen, should have an acceptable knowledge of Spanish.
9.        The consultants will furnish adequate transportation for the personnel
involved and maintain an office with secretarial capability and communications
service at its own account.
10.       The estimated total cost would be US$800,000 equivalent with a
foreign component of US$400,000. The required manpower is 135 man/months.
March 1979



URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Four-Year Program for Rehabilitation, Strengthening and
Reconstruction of Roads and a Bridge Improvement Program
Outline of Terms of Reference
Staffing and Scheduling of Consulting Services
Staffing              1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10111213141516171819 20212223 Total m/m
1 project manager     18
1 highway engineer                                                                                9
1 pavement expert                                                                                        9
1 traffic engineer                                                                                       7              4
1 structural engineer                                                                            14
1 transport economist                                                                                   12
1 systems analyst                                                                                        6
2 surveyors              _         -                                                                    24
3draftsmen                                                                                            36
Total man/months         135
Source: MTOP and Mission
March 1979
tM



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Transport Planning
Outline of Terms of Reference
Objective
Technical assistance for transport planning will be provided by
consultants over a period of three years, with the objectives of enabling
the Government to:
(i)  formulate a detailed program of transport investments;
(ii) improve planning and organization of each transport mode;
(iii) improve transport policies, especially those related to
effective coordination among all modes of transport;
(iv) complete, by December 31, 1980, an intermodal comparison
study, initiated under the SOTECNI study, which shall serve
as a basis for coordination of the Borrower's transport
policies and investments;
(v)  assist the Government in recruiting and training adequate
Government personnel in transport planning, and provide
on-the-job training to ensure that, by the end of the
three-year period, the Transport Planning Unit (TPU) of the
National Directorate of Transport within the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works will be capable of carrying on
its functions without further technical assistance.
Scope
The services to be provided by the consultants will cover the same
areas as those in which TPU acts. The consultants' personnel will work side
by side with counterpart staff assigned by the Government on a permanent
basis in order to initiate and continue action in the following areas:
1.   Initial Activities
The consultants' coordinator should start working six months
before the main part of the consultants staff arrive. During this initial
period the coordinator shall advise and assist the Government in:



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
(a) coordinating ongoing transportation studies;
(b) reviewing existing study reports and investment plans;
(c) reviewing available transportation data and identifying major
information deficiencies; and
(d) outlining TPU's plan of action for 1980 and identifying local
staff requirements; recruiting professional personnel.
2.   Sectoral Economics and Planning (Multimodal)
(a) the review, compilation and updating of data on traffic
generating sources and preparation of traffic forecasts;
(b) the determination of financial and economic operating
costs for the several modes of transport under various
operating conditions;
(c) the analysis of economic benefits to be derived from
recommended transport programs and the determination of
economic priorities of major programs;
(d) the review and analysis of current and proposed Government
laws, regulations and procedures relating to transport
pricing, entry and route permits, determining to which
extent these are effectively implemented; analyzing the
economic and social objectives of these regulations
and their effectiveness;
(e) the determination and analysis of total distribution costs
for major commodities by each of the various modes for
domestic and international traffic, examining the tradeoff
between service, time and cost and the effect that user
choices for various transport services have on the final
cost of the commodity to the consumer;
(f) the review and analysis of the present structure and level
of user charges in the various transport modes and the
relationship between charges and economic costs; and
(g) the formulation of criteria to evaluate and select
transport investments and the recommendation of procedures
for reviewing and updating transport investment programs,
determining their economic feasibility and priority con-
sidering budgetary constraints.
3,   Sectoral Statistics and Information Systems
(a) the revision and evaluation of existing transport data,
identifying areas where additional and more reliable data
are required; and



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
(b) the type of data to be collected, the format for presenting
the data for analysis and the methods of storage, as well as
the preparation of forms for the collection of data and the
methods of collection, all at the lowest cost sufficient to
meet the planning requirements.
4.   Modal Reviews and Evaluation 1/
Regarding the various transport modes, such as railways, highways,
road transport, ports and shipping, airports and civil aviation, the
consultants will:
(a) review and evaluate existing infrastructure and transport
capacity, identifying problem areas and making recommendations
for improvements, in order that services adequately meeting
consumer demand be provided at reasonable prices;
(b) review traffic data collecting systems, traffic counting
programs, and origin and destination surveys, including
international and domestic traffic;
(c) analyze and evaluate transport costs (financial and economic)
and tariffs of the several modes and the financial situation
of the modes, and recommend policies and systems of tariffs
consistent with economic development;
(d) assess the policies and regulations governing the various
modes, determining the extent to which these policies and
regulations are effective in furthering economic development;
and
(e) formulate criteria to evaluate investments in the various modes
and establish procedures for reviewing and updating invest-
ment programs and determining their feasibility and priority.
5.   Counterpart Training
Through their day-to-day assistance and advisory services, the
consultants shall train the staff of TPU in their respective disciplines.
In addition the consultants shall conduct an organized training program for
the counterparts and other personnel of MTOP. Also, the consultants shall
assist TPU in selecting professional personnel, preparing their job descrip-
tions and advising on their compensation.
1/   In case of the highway mode, the consultant will coordinate with
consultants preparing the four-year program of rehabilitation and
reconstruction of roads (Annex 3) and incorporate their results in the
multimodal system.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
6.   Personnel and Cost
About four senior experts would be required for a three-year period
with a total of about 108 man-months. The total cost would be US$800,000
with a foreign exchange component of US$600,000.
March 1979



53 -
ANNEX 5
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnico-Economica del Proyecto de la
Ruta No. 8
"Brigadier General Juan Antonio Lavalleja". Tramo Montevideo-Arroyo
de Marmaraja. Informe Final. INVIAL Ingenieros Consultores.
Septiembre 1978.
2.   Organizacion de la Direccion de Vialidad y Mantenimiento de Carreteras
y Equipos. Harris - ICA Consulting Engineers. Junio 1977.
3.   Appraisal of a Highway Project in Uruguay.  (Bank).  October 9, 1962.
4.   Integrated Transport Study - SOTECNI (UNDP-Bank) Consulting
Engineers. 1976-1977.
5.   Uruguay Transport Sector Brief (Bank).  August 1978.
6.   Uruguay:  Resena de la Actividad Economica-Financiera.  Abril de 1978.
7.   Detailed Engineering Studies Punta Rieles-Arroyo Marmaraja (SURCO,
INVIAL, VIALUR and ICA Consulting Engineers). 1974.
8.   Plan de Mantenimiento 1978 - Vialidad.
9.   Estudio para Mejorar el Area de Administracion Financiera del MTOP.
Arthur Young and Co. Febrero 1977.
10. Plan Nacional de Transporte 1978.
11.  Uruguay - Reglamento Nacional de Transito (MTOP).  7 Abril 1964.
12. Final Engineering Studies, March 1979.
April 1979






URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of the National Highway Directorate (Vialidad)
3~~~n                                           Admnitrti                                                   General 
Sertites                                                Secretary
Pesnnel             Tesury                  SupisAdministrative                      Communications
Documents
Works                                       Planning                                   Maneace                              Research                  Equipmntca
Source: SOTECNI Survey
April 1979                                                                                                                                                                                    World Bank -19873






URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(months, starting April 1, 1979)1/
Item                        Executing Agency    1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45
CIVIL WORAKS
Reconstruction of 140 km Rte 8                     Vialidad
1.  Review of pnequalifying and bidding
documents
2.  Prequalifying and bidding period
3.  Preqaalification and bid analysis, contract
award
4.  Contract approval by Government
5.  Contract Signing 
6.  Construction                                                                                                  E                          E     E      E      E     E      E
Consulting Services for the Supervision of        Vialidad
Civil Works above
7.  Preparation of documents to call for
proposals
8.  Evaluation of proposals and selection
of exparts
9.  Supervision of bidding and contracting
10. Supervision of construction works up                                                            _  _  _  __E
to mneeption
TAANSPOAT SECTOA MANAGEMENT
Consulting Services for the Preparation of        Vialidad
a 4-Year Program of Rehabilitation,
Strengthening and Reconstruction of Roads
and for a Program for Improvement of Bridges
11. Preparation of documents to call for                                       4,
proposals
12. Evaluation of proposals and selection
of experts
13. Execution
Consulting Services to Carry out Detailed         Vialidad
Engineering of about 200 km of Roads
Included in the First 2-Year Period of
4- Year Program above
14. Preparation of documents to call for
proposals
15. Evaluation of proposals and selection                                                                                      *
of consultants
16. Execution
Technical Assistance for the Strengthening  National Directorate of
of Transport Sector Planning                Transport (MTOP)
17. Preparation of documents to call for
proposals
18. Evaluation of proposals and selection
of candidates
19. Execution                                                                                                                                                                                        .  .  .  .  .  .
1with 8ank approval
1/ First advertisement of the Project: Development Forum, April 9,1979
which is the basic date to start implemantation of the Project.
y Supervision of detailed engineering and updating of economic evaluation
of the 200 km of the first two-year period of the 4-year program.
Source: MTOP and Mission Estimates
April 1979                                                                                                                                                                                            World Bank - 20263






w a                                 -fm /y-  -------
;X.:r,,0-S',,'~~~~~~~~~~L- j,,,,L  \
Ocqon
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ANT XC ANr>FX;t    ,
;H_:t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Ak~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~-. - -     BU-            ,,, 
/0~~~~~~~~~5          55*        54



