Document of
The World Banke Worlv
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2502-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 5, 1979
This doment has a restricted distibution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disclosed withumt World Dank authorizstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Peso (NUr$)
US$1.00                             NUr$5.49
NUr$1.00                            US$0.18
NUr$1,000,000                       US$182,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
DODE      -    Directorate of Economic Development Works
MTOP      -    Ministry of Transport and Public Works
Vialidad  -    MTOP's Highway Directorate
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Amount:            US$26.5 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 7.9% per annum
Project
Description:    The proposed project would assist the Government in
reconstructing the most heavily travelled portion
(140 km) of Route 8, an important link with Brazil
(the section to be reconstructed is Punta Rieles -km
13 from Montevideo- to Arroyo Marmaraja -km 153).
It would also help finance consulting services for
supervision of civil works, to prepare future highway
rehabilitation and to develop a bridge improvement
program, and technical assistance to strengthen trans-
port planning.
Benefits and
Risks:          The proposed project has the dual objective of improving
the integration of the northern area of the country and
the links from neighboring Brazil to Montevideo, Uruguay's
capital and major port, and setting in motion an institu-
tional effort to strengthen long term programming and
executing capacity of road rehabilitation and recon-
struction as well as of transport planning and coordi-
nation. The procurement phase of the project presents
no special risk. Past experience with similar projects
in Uruguay, however, shows that delays in project imple-
mentation of one or two years were common, mainly because
of inadequate project management. To help overcome this
problem, the proposed project includes strengthening of
civil works supervision by an experienced consultant
firm.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                   Local Cost   Foreign Cost   Total Cost
---------US$ million equivalent-------
Reconstruction of Route 8
(a) Civil works for 140 km          22.3          23.2           45.5
(b) Consulting services for
civil works supervision         0.9           0.9            1.8
Highway Programs and
Preparation of Future
Transport Sector Management
Consulting Services for:
(a) Preparation of a 4-year
program of rehabilitation,
strengthening and recon-
struction of national
highways and a bridge
improvement program             0.4           0.4            0.8
(b) Detailed engineering of
about 200 km of roads
included in the first
2-year period of program
in (a) above                    0.5           0.5            1.0
Technical assistance to strengthen
and improve transport sector
planning                            0.2           0.6            0.8
Contingencies
(a) Physical (10% of civil
works)                          2.2           2.3             4.5
(b) Price escalation (12%) 1/        3.2           3.6             6.8
Total                29.7          31.5            61.2
Financing Plan:   Bank                                   -           26.5            26.5
Private Bank 2/ or Government         -            5.0             5.0
Government                          29.7            -             29.7
Total                29.7 3/       31.5            61.2
1/   Based on estimated annual price increases of 7% for 1979-82.
2/   Co-financing arrangements currently under negotiation.
3/   Taxes are estimated to constitute 16% of total costs.



- iii -
Estimated Schedule of                    Fiscal             Annual
Disbursements of Bank                  Year            Disbursement        Cumulative
Loan (in US$ millions):
1980                0.5                0.5
1981               10.0                10.5
1982               14.0               24.5
1983                2.0               26.5
Rate of Return:      20% on 95% of project costs for which benefits have been
quantified.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            April 5, 1979 (No. 2329b-UR)






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republica Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$26.5 million
to help finance the proposed Second Highway Project. The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest of 7.9% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uruguay in May 1978.  The resulting
Economic Memorandum (2241-UR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
December 1978. A summary of Country Basic Data is attached as Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy deteri-
orated steadily in the next two decades. This was the result of policies that
favored urban consumption and high-cost industrial import substitution at the
expense of investment, exports and growth. A well-educated and predominantly
urban population generated increasing demands for high employment, better
public services and social benefits. The attempts to meet these demands
took the form of fiscal, exchange rate and price policies that resulted in a
sustained transfer of income out of the resource-rich agricultural and livestock
sector. Industrial sector development, initially stimulated by shortages
of consumer goods during World War II, was fostered through a deliberate
import substitution and protection policy during the immediate post-war era.
However economic growth faltered as agricultural production, productivity and
exports declined after the Korean War. Moreover, industrial import substitu-
tion possibilities in the small domestic market were largely exhausted.
Unemployment and underemployment rose sharply. Government policies aimed at
maintaining urban income and consumption levels resulted in strong inflationary
pressures, capital flight and serious misallocation of resources. During the
early 1970s, political and social unrest marked by urban terrorism and labor
strife further discouraged savings, investment and any initiative to expand
output and exports.
4.        Prior to the beginning of the above dislocations, Uruguay instituted
comprehensive welfare legislation. Progressive legislation covering such
areas as social security retirement and death pensions, job security, unemploy-
ment compensation, free health and education services provided mechanisms
for redistributing income. Uruguay was thus able to achieve a relatively
high level of social progress as evidenced by an income distribution pattern
which compares favorably with that of some developed countries with a similar



resource endowment, but considerably higher income per capita. Although
Uruguay experienced a drop in per capita income during the 1960s and early
1970s, the country has attained levels that are comparable to those of some
developed countries and above those of most developing countries in health
(life expectancy at birth of 70 years), education (94% literacy rate), and
nutrition (per capita intake of protein of 100 grams per day).
5.        The redistribution mechanisms were not, however, immune to economic
instability--and, in effect, contributed to it. The uncoordinated growth of
the social security system and its liberal benefits, coupled with a stagnant
economy and rapid inflation, caused increasing stress on the country's resources.
Larger transfers from the Central Government were increasingly needed to
provide decreasing real benefits to a larger number of people. In addition
to the financial burden on the Government, the high level of contributions
required by the system from employers increased the real cost of labor.
This high cost, coupled with the incentives to the use of capital inherent in
the import substitution strategy, acted as a brake on the creation of employ-
ment. Moreover, the inadequate level of real benefits, together with the old
age structure of the population, resulted in a large number of people working
past retirement age and this further limited employment opportunities for the
groups entering the labor force.
6.        The structural changes in the world economy that emerged in late
1973 had a strong impact on the Uruguayan economy. The threefold increase in
the price of imported oil (upon which the country is entirely dependent),
substantial increases in other import prices, and the closing of the European
Economic Community to meat imports contributed to a sharp reversal in the
balance of payments, a precipitous deterioration of fiscal performance and to
an acceleration of domestic inflation. The economic team appointed in mid-1974
recognized that long-term solutions to the country's economic problems went
beyond stabilization and required a fundamental reorientation of economic
management away from an inward-looking towards an export-oriented development
strategy. The basic objectives of the new program were the improvement of
resource allocation and productive efficiency through greater reliance on the
price mechanism, and the promotion and diversification of nontraditional
exports, i.e., those other than beef and wool. The achievement of these
objectives required the freeing of domestic prices and the liberalization of
the foreign trade and payment system from the burdensome controls instituted
in the past.
7.        The rapid implementation of export-oriented development measures
yielded unexpectedly rapid and positive results in 1975-78, enabling Uruguay
to surpass most of the performance targets embodied in three successive standby
agreements with the IMF. Government economic policy during this period con-
centrated on fostering growth in the commodity-producing sectors by eliminating
various types of controls that distorted resource allocation, and by achieving
a more realistic exchange rate in order to promote exports. Quantitative and
financial import controls of raw materials and capital goods were eliminated;
price ceilings on many domestic products were lifted; interest rates on de-
posits and loans were freed; and nontraditional exports were successfully
stimulated through a policy of minidevaluations and the establishment of a



- 3 -
system of tax rebates. Reversing policies that prevailed for thirty years, the
government eliminated controls on pricing and marketing of agricultural goods
in the third quarter of 1978. While the immediate effect of the removal of
the ceiling was to increase beef prices by about 20%, the difference between
international and domestic prices, the measure should help to improve efficiency
in the sector and lead to higher supplies, without undermining the Government's
antiinflation program. In continuation of its liberalization policies, the
government reduced maximum levels of import duties and surcharges in January
1979.
8.        Despite the continuation of generally unfavorable external factors,
the economy responded by achieving an annual average GDP growth of about 2.5%
during 1974-78, compared with an annual decline of 0.5% during the previous
four years. Production of nontraditional exports, particularly leather and
textile manufactures, led the recovery of the economy and was instrumental
in initiating a remarkable turnaround in the external sector which has continued
since 1976. The improvement in the current account balance continued as the
deficit declined from an average US$160 million in 1974-75 to US$70 million
during 1976-78, which together with strong private capital inflows, resulting
in increasing gains in net foreign exchange reserves of US$112 million, US$161
million and US$194 million in 1976, 1977 and 1978, respectively, compared with
a loss of US$73 million in 1975. Moreover, the inflation rate had been
reduced to 40% in 1976, from a level of 67% in 1975 and 107% in 1974, owing to
a combination of more restrictive monetary management and incomes policy,
and--above all--improving fiscal performance. The Central Government fiscal
deficit was reduced from 4.5% of GDP in 1974-75, to 2.5% in 1976, surpassing
the target of 3.4% stipulated in a standby agreement with the IMF. The
marked fiscal improvement was brought about by a combination of increased
collection of revenues from the value-added tax and IMPROME (a tax on imputed
income on agricultural land), and the restraint of current expenditures to
the real level of 1975.
9.        The Central Government's fiscal situation continued to improve in
1977-78 (an average overall deficit of 1.2% of GDP). The policy of wage
restraint enabled the Government to restrict current expenditures and finance
a larger investment program. The Government's wage policy has also been
instrumental in maintaining a relatively low level of inflation during
1976-78 as compared to 1974-75. The increased inflationary pressures in
1977, caused by a poor harvest and the monetary expansion resulting from
accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, were controlled through monetary
measures introduced in late 1977. As a result, the rate of inflation declined
from 57% in 1977 to 46% in 1978. In all, real wages which declined during
the stabilization''program reached their minimum level in November 1977.
Economic Prospects
10.       The Government is attempting to shift the economic structure towards
a more open, export-oriented model. This shift is by no means easy in view of
the deep-seated rigidities which Uruguay's economy has acquired over the last



- 4 -
thirty years. High tariff protection and traditional public sector management
continue to hamper growth. Nevertheless, the success in stimulating economic
activity and turning around the balance of payments during the last four years
attests to the economy's responsiveness to a consistent set of signals as the
price mechanism is allowed to operate more freely. The key to sustained
growth for the future will depend on the Government's ability to consolidate
the recent gains through longer-term policies. Uruguay's long and difficult
experience in pursuing income distribution policies in the face of a stagnant
economy has led the authorities to give utmost priority over the coming years
to sustained growth. As this goal is attained, the task of redistributing the
resulting benefits should prove easier and more viable than in the past.
11.       In broad terms, government policies aim to provide a propitious
economic environment for the fuller use of such advantages as the country's
highly literate labor force, its strategic location between Argentina and
Brazil, and a natural resource endowment suited to export-oriented agricultural
production, including the traditional livestock industry as well as the
largely untapped potential in crop production, food processing and fisheries.
12.       Provided that the sound orientation of fiscal, monetary and trade
policies already instituted is consolidated, the Uruguayan economy has the
capacity to grow at faster rates than in recent years (possibly some 4% p.a.
compared to about 1.0% during 1971-78). The expansion of both traditional
and nontraditional exports should provide the main impetus for growth. Beef
and wool exports will benefit from the recently enacted price and marketing
liberalization measure, the reasonably favorable price outlook, and the
successful penetration of new markets in recent years. Sustained growth of
manufacturing output and nontraditional exports should be possible with the
further development of such subsectors as leather products, textiles, processed
foods, fish and other manufacturing goods. Private sector investment should
provide the principal impulse for growth in the coming year in the form of the
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of existing production units
rather than the establishment of new, large-scale ventures. The public sector
is expected to play a key supporting role by channeling financial resources,
rehabilitation of infrastructure and complementary services to the productive
sectors.
13.       Export expansion and diversification will require the modernization
of the country's capital stock. This implies heavy import requirements for key
infrastructure, new plant and equipment, rehabilitation of the existing stock,
and for related intermediate inputs. A rapid growth in imports (including
petroleum products) is to be expected under these policies possibly resulting
in a trade deficit averaging about US$70 million during 1979-81. With the
development of alternative energy sources the volume of petroleum imports may
decline in 1982 and 1983 and together with the expansion of beef exports,
result in a small positive trade balance by 1983. The above trade projections
combined with steadily increasing net factor payments on public and private
borrowing would result in a small widening of the current account deficit from
an average of US$70 million during 1976-78 to an annual average of US$130
million in 1979-81. Expansion of beef exports in 1982-83 in conjunction with
reduced petroleum imports may be expected to reduce the projected current
account deficit to about US$50 million by 1983. The current account deficits



- 5 -
projected are moderate and should lead to a further enhancement of Uruguay's
creditworthiness and to more favorable terms on external credits than in the
recent pact. The relatively moderate gross external capital requirements for
1979-83 (estimated at an annual average of US$220 million) can be expected to
come partly from existing and new commitments of multilateral and bilateral
agencies. Private financial institutions, suppliers' credits and Government
bonds would provide the major portion of the remainder.
14.       The remarkable turnaround in Uruguay's balance of payments since
1976 has enabled the authorities to amortize or refinance various commit-
ments contracted on unfavorable terms during the previous years. The volume
of commitments contracted during 1974-75, together with their relatively
unfavorable terms, resulted in a debt service ratio of about 28% in 1977.
However, expansion of exports reduced the debt service ratio to an estimated
19% in 1978. Under these circumstances, Uruguay would remain creditworthy
for the amounts of external capital required to rehabilitate the country's
capital stock and to achieve sustained economic and social progress.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
15.       Uruguay has received US$202.7 million (net of cancellations) in Bank
loans. As of February 28, 1979, the Bank held US$96.1 million, including
US$24.5 million undisbursed. On a sectoral basis, Bank assistance to Uruguay
(14 loans in total) has mainly been for power (40%) and livestock (35%), with
some lending for industry (10%), transport (10%) as well as vocational training
and technological development (5%). IFC has made two loans in Uruguay: to
Fabrica Uruguaya de Neumaticos S.A. (FUNSA) (US$3.8 million) to introduce radial
tire production, increase tire manufacturing capacity and improve operating
efficiency and product quality; and to Acodyke Supergas S.A. (US$950,000) to
help finance a new liquid petroleum gas bottling plant. Execution of these
projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary
of Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 28, 1979, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
16.            Bank lending to Uruguay in FY78 consisted of a loan of US$9.7
million equivalent for a Vocational Training and Technological Development
project. In addition to the proposed project, a loan for a Fifth Power
project is expected to be presented shortly to the Executive Directors. Work
is also underway on ports and agriculture projects for possible consideration
by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
17.       The Bank, in its program in Uruguay, is trying to assist the
Government in implementing an economic strategy designed to put the economy
on a path of sustained growth. Towards this end, all operations are aimed at
policies and programs which will support the continued recovery of the
economy within a framework of financial stability. More specifically, the
objectives of the Bank's program are to: (i) foster productive activities
by promoting the expansion and diversification of export earnings; (ii) help
strengthen the country's sectoral policies and public sector institutions;
and (iii) improve and promote the integration of the economy with the large
markets of neighboring Argentina and Brazil, as well as with overseas markets.



- 6-
18.       The proposed project as well as those planned in transport is de-
signed to support the Government's effort to improve the country's infra-
structure to foster increased economic activity, rising income and employment,
strengthening sector institutions and investment planning. The transport
projects will also assist Uruguay's efforts to integrate with its neighbors
(Brazil and Argentina), which are its major trading partners. Bank lending
for power is aimed at helping the country meet its growing power demand,
while increasing the country's reliance on local energy sources and
improving the financial and institutional performance of the power company.
Bank lending for agriculture is directed at increasing crop and livestock
production to assist Uruguay in achieving self-sufficiency in grains and
in increasing and diversifying its export earnings. Bank assistance for
industry, including vocational training and technological development, is
primarily designed to help expand non-traditional exports, the principal motor
of economic growth; at the same time, the Bank will continue to emphasize the
importance of dismantling and lowering the cumbersome tariff and import
regulation structure which is necessary to increase the efficiency of the
sector.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
19.       With its economy largely based on primary and processed agri-
cultural/livestock products, Uruguay is heavily dependent for its continued
economic growth on the development of its transport sector. Bordered by the
two largest countries in South America, Argentina on the west and Brazil on
the north, and with more than half of its national boundary navigable
coastline on the south and east, the country is geographically unusually
well endowed for the export-oriented development strategy being pursued.
The country's economic difficulties referred to above have, however, led to
a general neglect of an adequate pace of maintenance and rehabilitation
of infrastructure facilities. The concentration of Uruguay's commercial
activity and population in the capital of Montevideo and the extensive
agricultural and livestock development of its hinterland is reflected in the
country's transport system. The interior, with relatively flat terrain,
main rivers at boundaries, and low density agricultural activity lent itself
to development of radial roads and rail networks, extending north, east and
west from the metropolitan region around the seaport of Montevideo. Of the
total freight traffic (in ton-km) carried within the country in 1976, roads
accounted for about 73%, rail 20% and water 7%.
The Transport System
(a) Railways
20.       The railway network of 3,000 km radiates in 5 lines from Montevideo.
Passenger traffic has halved since the early 1950s to its lowest level in 1972
at 343 million pass-km. No substantial long distance passenger traffic exists



- 7 -
today, with the major part of traffic consisting of suburban commuter-type
demand, concentrated within 100 km of Montevideo. Freight traffic had, by
1975, fallen to 290 million ton-km compared with 445 million ton-km in 1965.
Principal items of freight are calcareous rock, rice, and, of lesser import-
ance, other g-iTas, sugar and fertilizers. Despite its deterioration, the
railway network still carries 20% of Uruguay's freight and passenger traffic.
The managerial and operating procedures of the government railway company
are antiquated and inefficient. This, combined with the poor physical and
largely obsolete condition of the system resulted in financial losses.
These losses amounted to over US$7 million in 1976. A UNDP-financed trans-
port survey for which the Bank was the executing agency was conducted in
1978. It concluded that all rail traffic could be carried more efficiently
on roads. However, recognizing that complete closure of the rail system is
a remote possibility the study recommended a further survey of limitation of
the passsenger service to commuter lines near Montevideo and of freight
service to specialized bulk cargoes such as minerals and fuels.
(b) Air Transport
21.       Air Transport has developed slowly in Uruguay, principally because
of the concentration of population in the Montevideo area, the country's easy
topography resulting in an abundance of surface transportation and the short
distances involved. Domestic air traffic has increased considerably in recent
years, but the total number of domestic passengers (60,000 in 1976) remains
low. International traffic, mostly related to travel in the River Plate area,
totaled about 620,000 passengers in 1976. Uruguay has only one functioning
international airport, Carrasco in Montevideo. A military airport to the
north (Durazno) has been upgraded to emergency alternative status. Maldonado,
near the tourist resort of Punta del Este, has only daylight operations.
Commercial airline operations are dominated by PLUNA, a state-owned company.
Services to several domestic airports are provided in cooperation with TAMU
(Transportes Aereos Militares Uruguayos).
(c) Ports and Water Transport
22.       Over 90% of Uruguay's foreign trade is handled by ports.  Monte-
video accounts for more than 70% of this traffic, while Colonia, Nueva
Palmira, Fray Bentos and Paysandu handle the balance, mainly exports of
cereals and construction materials to Brazil and Argentina. In 1977, the
Port of Montevideo handled, in all, 2.9 million tons. This included 1.8
million tons of crude oil, discharged at the tanker berths of the oil
refinery, which is being diverted to a new off shore mooring buoy. However,
dry cargo traffic is expected to increase as a result of the Government's
efforts to increase the export of grains and beef and to reduce import
restrictions. The current system of ad valorem port charges, which dis-
courages imports and encourages exports, and the shallow characteristics of
the ports in neighboring Argentina have enabled Montevideo to become a
lightening as well as topping off and bunkering port for ships destined to
or originating in Buenos Aires. In the last few years, the National Port
Authority has made considerable progress in certain area, such as: the



- 8 -
removal of the penalty surcharge on international traffic that had been
levied by major shipping conferences, as a result of better port operations
and improved vessel dispatch since 1974-1976; reduction in the total number
of port employees, from about 8,000 in 1972 to some 5,600 in mid-1978; and
consistent reductions in total port operating costs in real terms between
1974 and 1978 notwithstanding increases in port traffic. Despite these
improvements, the Port Authority's costs are still high, and efficiency is
low.  To overcome existing problems, the Port Authority has a development
program for the Montevideo port for 1978-1982 and is preparing with Bank
assistance a possible project that could result in Bank financing of portions
of the program.  The national maritime fleet of Uruguay consists of 19 vessels
(ten seagoing and nine coastal).
(d) Highways
23.       The road network consists of some 50,000 km, of which 9,800 km are
national roads maintained by the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP).
One-third of the national network is paved and about 90% of this lies in
the radial system originating in Montevideo. The remainder of the network,
40,000 km, consists of secondary and feeder roads largely maintained by the
departments and municipalities. The coverage of the national road network is
adequate, but the principal problem is its age and seriously deteriorated
condition. This is particularly the case as regards the main international
connections, which have considerable importance given the country's reliance on
trade with its neighbors. Lack of timely periodic maintenance during the long
period of economic stagnation has contributed significantly to this deteriora-
tion. The departmental road network needs expansion mainly in the southwest,
center, north and northwest Departments, which are areas with high agricultural
potential. Only 2,000 km (5%) of the departmental network is paved; 4,000 km
are tosca gravel and 34,000 km are earth roads. These departmental roads are
of low standard, poorly maintained and offer restricted service ability during
the rainy season. Recently, MTOP's Highway Directorate (Vialidad) has been
helping the Departments to improve this situation.
24.       Traffic growth in Uruguay has been low over the last decade.  High
average vehicle age, deteriorating road conditions, rising fuel prices (at
present, the price per gallon of regular gasoline is US$1.50 equivalent) and
the overall state of the economy have apparently restricted countrywide
growth of traffic to negligible proportions. The trucking industry, domestic
and international, is highly competitive with liberal entry. In the road trans-
port industry, trucking companies with principally international operations are
few, and they operate truck fleets which are reasonably modern but smaller than
the average for Latin America. International freight rates offered by Uruguayan
firms are competitive with those of Argentine and Brazilian operators. The level
of service offered and the capacity of the truck and bus fleet is broadly adequate
for the demand, although the average age of the fleet for short and medium
haul trips is high; the longevity of the truck fleet is explained by the
short distances, mild climate, easy terrain and import restrictions prevailing
in the country.
25.       Overloading of vehicles does not appear to be a serious problem in
Uruguay. A countrywide weight control program is being operated in an
adequate manner. The present axle weight control law limits single axle
weight to 10 tons, which is about the same as for Argentina (10.5 tons) and



-9-
Brazil (10 tons). However, Uruguay limits gross vehicle weight to 36 tons,
significantly below Argentina and Brazil, where gross loads are permitted
up to 45 tons and 40 tons respectively. This regulation cannot be amended
because of the large number of obsolete bridges along the Uruguayan road
network. The proposed project thus includes the preparation of a bridge
improvement program, which would also assess the proper limit to be set as
gross vehicle weight and would review the efficiency of the countrywide
vehicle weight control program (see paragraph 39 below).
26.       Over the period 1972-1976, about 20% (averaging about US$3.6 million
per year) of the national highway capital expenditures, was financed from
external sources. The remaining funds came from MTOP's budget. Total road
user revenues were growing at about 15% per year during this period and, by
1976, had reached over US$100 million per year, of which US$80 million were
derived from fuel taxes. MTOP expenditure on roads for construction and
maintenance was at less than half the level of user revenues, reaching about
US$43 million in 1976. Total expenditure by MOPT on roads has been lagging
behind revenues actually earmarked for roads by about 10% in recent years
because of implementation delays. About 42% of the fuel taxes are earmarked
for MTOP, which together with revenue from minor user taxes, represented about
75% of MTOP revenues in 1976. The remainder came from the national budget
(17%) and from external sources (8%).
27.       The 1978 transport sector study (see para. 20) concluded that,
over the period 1978-1982, a highway investment program of about US$310
million (in 1976 prices), would be economically justified. While it is very
unlikely that an amount approaching this could be expended on roads, con-
sidering the sector's existing capacity it remains apparent that investment
in roads over the next five years would be substantial. The transport study
also underscored the priority of rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
country's main international links. Consequently, planning of highway
rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction is considered a high
priority component of the proposed project (see paragraph 39 below).
28.       Vialidad is responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining
the national highway network through its headquarters in Montevideo and nine
regional offices. All road construction by Vialidad is done under contract
with private contractors. Contract construction has been performed satis-
factorily but with some delays in work completion.
29.       Maintenance of all national highways is performed by Vialidad,
using its own equipment and a manpower of about 2,100 workers and 40
engineers. Maintenance is carried out by the nine regional offices super-
vising 26 districts. Routine maintenance of trunk roads is generally
acceptable. Periodic maintenance has historically been unsatisfactory,
mainly because of budgetary constraints and poor planning. Although the
organizational setup for maintenance of roads is generally adequate, the
main problems are lack of equipment and lack of a labor force with suf-
ficient skills and organization. Acquisition of new equipment and increase
in labor efficiency are therefore of high priority. Consultants completed a
study in 1977 of maintenance requirements under an IDB grant. This study
identified and recommended equipment requirements for highway maintenance,
reorganization of Vialidad and training needs. Implementation of these



- 10 -
recommendations is being financed under an on-going IDB-loan (US$4.0 million
equivalent). Vialidad is also negotiating with equipment dealers in Uruguay
for the acquisition of an additional US$6.0 million worth of equipment. In
line with the on-going efforts to improve road maintenance and Vialidad,
assurances have been obtained that during the execution of the project, the
Government will exchange views annuallly with the Bank on its overall road
maintenance program and related budgetary proposals in order to review the
adequacy of the programs of periodic maintenance for paved roads, renewal
and acquisition of maintenance equipment and assistance to Departments for
road maintenance (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). To strengthen
future planning of maintenance works, assurances have also been obtained
that starting from 1980, Vialidad's accounting system will show itemized
expenditures of routine and periodic maintenance, minor improvements,
rehabilitation, major improvements and construction. (Section 4.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Transport Planning and Coordination
30.       MTOP was created in 1967 and is responsible for the development of
a national transport policy, transport coordination and establishment of
tariffs for transport services. The Ministry has some nominal jurisdiction
over the investment plans and operational policies and practices of the
modal agencies. In practice, however, their plans and policies are formu-
lated independently of MTOP. Sector management and intermodal coordination
have been badly neglected in the past. Lack of sectoral coordination has a
long history, starting early this century with the parallel and often
competitive development of the then foreign-owned railway and the national
highway network. The almost complete absence, until the 1978 transport
study, of data on transport costs and demand has preempted any efforts in
this regard. To overcome the problem and help the planning of future
maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction works, the proposed project
includes a technical assistance component to provide for permanent traffic
counting and an implementation program (see paragraph 41 below). Meanwhile,
in recognition of the existing deficiencies in the transport planning
mechanism, the Government has used the above-mentioned transport study to
establish needs and current priorities of the transport sector and to
identify the present project. This study identified as key development
issues the need for strengthening of national transport planning; improve-
ments in road rehabilitation and reconstruction, particularly of the inter-
national connections to Argentina and Brazil; reductions of the railroad
network, its operations and deficit; and port modernization.
31.       As a first step toward improving transport planning and coordina-
tion, in December 1977, it was decided to establish a Transport Advisory
Council. This Council is led by the National Directorate of Transportation
and includes the Railways Administration, the state airline (PLUNA), the
Airports Administration, the Ports Authority and the Government Planning
Secretariat. This Council is preparing a national transport plan, which is
to be based largely on the 1978-1982 investment plan recommendations of the



- 11 -
transport study. A transport planning unit within MTOP, staffed with
counterparts from the sector survey, is currently assisting the Transport
Advisory Council in preparing the national transport plan. The project would
provide technical assistance by specialized consultants to strengthen this unit
(see paragraph 41. below). Included in their program of work will be the comple-
tion by June 30, 1981 of an intermodal comparison study, initiated by the trans-
port sector survey, which would serve as the basis for coordination of transport
policies and investments. The study will be the subject of an exchange of
views with the Bank (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Past Bank Assistance for Highways
32.       The Bank's only operation in the sector was a highways loan made in
1963 (Loan 324-UR, US$18.5 million equivalent) to help finance the improve-
ment of Route 5 from Montevideo north to Rivera on the Brazilian border
(about 500 km), strengthening of highway maintenance, including the purchase
of equipment and a highway planning study. The improvement of Route 5
consisted mainly of paving and bridge replacement or improvement. The works
were completed satisfactorily with a 14% cost overrun but not until 1971,
five years behind schedule. The delay was mainly due to poor contractor
performance. Traffic in 1971 showed an average increase of about 50% over
appraisal estimates.
33.       As a result of equipment purchases under the project, maintenance
of the national network improved considerably and with the help of consultants
employed under the project the quality of maintenance work performed in
Vialidad's workshops was raised to a satisfactory level, and overall organi-
zation was improved.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report; Second Highway Project"
(No. 2329b-UR) dated April 5, 1979 is being distributed separately. A
Loan and Project Summary is being placed at the front of this report. A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The project was
identified by the Government in May 1977 following the transport sector study,
and subsequently prepared by consultants INVIAL (Uruguay) during 1977-78.
The project was appraised in August-September 1978. Negotiations were held
in Washington from March 19-27, 1979. The Uruguayan delegation was led by
Mr. Eduardo Sampson, Minister of Transportation and Public Works.
Project Objectives and General Description
35.       The proposed project has the dual objective of (i) improving the inte-
gration of the northern area of the country and of the link from neighboring
Brazil to Montevideo, Uruguay's capital and major port; and (ii) setting in
motion an institutional effort designed to improve long-term programming and
executing capacity of road rehabilitation and reconstruction as well as of



- 12 -
transport planning and coordination. Given the country's reliance on trade
with its neighbors and the central role of the port in Uruguay's export-led
development policy, the proposed project should enhance the competitiveness
of the country's production, reduce transportation costs and provide more
reliable transport services to areas producing significant proportions of
the national outputs of rice, cattle and cereals. Exports of cement produced
near Minas to Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul) would be facilitated, as would
distribution of fish products to the interior and Brazil.  Montevideo would
benefit from easier flowing and less costly transportation, which would
contribute to the development of its industry and enhance its role as
Uruguay's leading port.
36.       Specifically, the project would consist of:
(i)  Reconstruction of Route 8 (140 km) between Punta Rieles (13 km
from Montevideo) and Arroyo Marmaraja (153 km):
- civil works by contractors; and
- consulting services for civil works supervision.
(ii) Preparation of Future Highway Programs and Strengthening of
Transport Sector Management:
- consulting services for preparation of a four-year program
of rehabilitation, reconstruction and strengthening program
of national highways and a bridge improvement program;
- consulting services for detailed engineering for about
200 km of roads included in the first two-year period of the
program mentioned above; and
- technical assistance to strengthen and improve transport
sector planning.
Reconstruction of Route 8
37.       Route 8 is one of the main roads linking Montevideo to the interior
and is an important connector to Brazil. It extends from Montevideo to the
Brazilian border at Acegua (441 km) where it connects to the Brazilian
highway system. At Treinta y Tres (271 km), Route 18 branches off Route 8
and crosses the border at Rio Branco (207 km) to form another connection with
the Brazilian system (Map IBRD 14225). As indicated above, the proposed
project comprises 140 km of Route 8 and the remainder is being rehabilitated
and reconstructed with the assistance of an IDB loan. The present road has a
relatively new four-lane divided highway (13 km long) ending in Punta Rieles
on the outskirts of Montevideo where it links to a two-lane highway with design
standards far below those required for present heavy traffic. The pavement and
shoulders along the 140 km in the project are in a deteriorated state, despite
constant and costly repairs, and are hazardous to traffic safety, especially
during wet weather. The feeder roads in the area of influence of Route 8 are
generally adequate for the current and foreseeable level of activity.



- 13 -
38.       The 140 km of the project (Punta Rieles-Arroyo Marmaraja) would
be constructed as a modern road, of which the first 17.5 km, extending
the existing four-lane access road to the northeast of Montevideo, would
be upgraded to four-lane standards. The remainder would be reconstructed to
two-lane standards with design and structure characteristics closely reflect-
ing projected traffic volumes which decrease from about 3,000 vpd (of which
about half correspond to heavy vehicles) to about 500 vpd as one moves away
from Montevideo.
Preparation of Future Highway Programs and Transport Sector Management
39.       The proposed project includes consulting services (about 135 man-
months) over an 18-month period starting in January 1980 to prepare a
four-year program of the rehabilitation, strengthening and reconstruction of
national highways. The consultants would also prepare a high priority bridge
improvement program. The program would mainly comprise bridges on the main
national highways. Such a program is urgently needed, since most of the
bridges were built 40 to 60 years ago and designed for traffic loads far
below the present level. Vehicle weight and dimensions permitted in Argen-
tina and Brazil could not use the existing bridges safely because of their
obsolescence and insufficient capacity. Consequently, most of the trucks
with international freight have to be off loaded at the Uruguayan borders or
undertake a lengthy detour to the North. This problem contributes to high
transport costs in Uruguay and in the Region, and constitutes an obstacle to
the development of Uruguay's international trade.
40.       The project would also provide consulting services (about 240
man-months) over a 23-month period, divided among 3 or 4 contracts, to
prepare the detailed engineering for the roads included in the first
two years of the four-year program mentioned above. But one firm can handle
several contracts. It is expected that this component of the proposed project
would involve about 200 km of roads selected from the international routes
to Argentina, connecting Montevideo-Mercedes-Fray Bentos (Routes 1 and 3,
30.8 km), Montevideo-Paysandu-Salto (Route 3, 426 km) and Mercedes-Paysandu
(Route 24, 120 km). These roads connect the four most important and
populous cities, traverse the foremost agricultural zone and provide the
only land connection with Argentina over the bridges at Fray Bentos, Paysandu
and Salto (Map IBRD 14225).
41.       As mentioned above (para. 31), a transport planning unit within
MTOP, staffed with counterparts from the transport study, is assisting
the Transport Advisory Council in preparing a national transport plan.
However, the unit would need technical assistance to pursue and develop
its role as the focal point for keeping information on the transport
sector and advising the Government on all matters related to transport
planning policies. The proposed project would provide technical assistance
by individual consultants and/or a consulting firm of about four senior
experts for a three-year period with a total of about 108 man-months.
Cost Estimates and Financing
42.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$61.2
million equivalent and the estimated foreign component is US$31.5 million;
of this, US$26.5 million (or 44% of the net of tax cost of the project)



- 14 -
would be financed by the proposed loan. Taxes are estimated to constitute
about US$4.7 million of project costs. The Government is currently negotiat-
ing with the Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) for an additional loan of about US$5
million, providing for better terms than could otherwise have been obtained,
namely 10 years, including 5 years of grace and 7/8% above LIBOR. If such
additional financing, however, is not obtained, the Government undertakes to
provide the US$5 million itself.
43.       When the additional loan from BNS is obtained, the Loan Agreement
would be amended to include (i) a "cross-default" clause; (ii) a skewed amorti-
zation schedule so that uniform semi-annual amortization payments would amortize
both loans; and (iii) a provision that disbursements be conditioned on the
co-lenders' loan having been fully disbursed for civil works under the
project (this is expected to occur within the first year of the project
period). An agreement would also be entered into beween the World Bank and
the private Bank substantially in the form of earlier Bank agreements with
commercial banks.
44.       A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to cover increases
in quantities usually expected in road works. About 12% of basic costs plus
physical contingencies has been allowed for price variations assuming inflation
rates as shown at the bottom of the cost table in the loan and project summary.
These rates reflect recent worldwide estimates and are relevant to Uruguay.
Since it is the Government's policy to adjust the Peso/US$ exchange rate in
line with respective inflation rates, and since construction prices in Uruguay
have moved in line with local inflation rates, a separate calculation for
domestic prices has not been considered necessary. The cost per man-month for
technical assistance and consulting services is estimated to range from US$3,000
to US$9,000 with an average of US$6,000 per man-month.
Execution, Procurement and Disbursements
45.       The execution of the project would be the responsibility of MTOP.
Vialidad would be the executing unit for all project components except
the one dealing with transport sector planning, which would be carried out
by the National Transport Directorate. Vialidad has recently (1976) been
strengthened by the absorption of the Directorate of Economic Development
Works (DODE), a unit established within MOPT to execute major internationally
financed works, including the first bank project. DODE increased considerably
Vialidad's operational capacity.  Even after the absorption of DODE, however,
Vialidad still suffers from some scarcity of senior technical staff. Because
of the extent of the roadworks under the proposed project, Vialidad would
hire consultants, with qualifications, experience and terms of employment
satisfacctory to the Bank, to supervise the civil works (Section 3.01(d) of
the Loan Agreement). In addition, a project coordinator would be appointed
by the Government, not later than September 1, 1979, to serve as liaison
between Vialidad and other agencies involved in the project. The project
coordinator would represent and be directly responsible to the Minister of
Transportation and Public Works (Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). To
assist the consultants employed for the supervision of civil works, the
Government would provide within the Department of Works of Vialidad at least
two experienced and qualified engineers as counterparts for the consultants



- 15 -
(Section 3.01(d) of the Loan Agreement). As counterparts, on the other
hand, of the consultants employed for the road rehabilitation and bridge
improvement programs, the Government would provide in Vialidad not less than
one highway engineer, one bridge structure engineer and an economist (Section
3.02(b) of tlh  -oan Agreement).  The hiring of the consultants for the
supervision of civil works would be a condition of effectivenness (Section
5.01 of the Loan Agreement).
46.       Procurement under the project would be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". Civil works for reconstruc-
tion of Route 8 would be carried out on the basis of unit price contracts
awarded in accordance with international competitive bidding, procedures to
prequalified firms. The estimated value of individual contracts would range
from US$5 to to US$10 million, so that medium capacity local contractors
would have an opportunity to bid. The civil works would be divided into
four lots to be bid simultaneously. To facilitate participation by large
contractors, bidders would be allowed one or more lots.
47.       Project expenditures eligible for disbursement under the Bank loan
would be defined as follows:
(a) 42% of total construction costs for civil works;
(b) 51% of total expenditures for the consulting services for
(i) supervision and civil works in construction, (ii) prepara-
tion of a four-year program of rehabilitation, strengthening
and reconstruction of national highways and a bridge improve-
ment program, (iii) detailed engineering for selected highways;
and
(c) 80% of total expenditures for technical assistance to improve
transport sector planning.
Economic Evaluation
48.       The reconstruction of Route 8 would benefit road users through
vehicle operating cost savings (73% of benefits), time savings (16%) and
accident savings (4%). In addition, benefits would accrue through savings
of road maintenance costs (7%). Given the highly competitive character of
the trucking industry and the reasonable bus tariffs set by the Government,
the benefits from savings in vehicle operating costs are expected to be
passed by and large to the users in the form of reductions or more probably
avoided increases in transport tariffs.
49.       For purposes of computing the project's overall economic rate of
return, the 140 km of the road to be rehabilitated were divided into nine
sections. On this basis, the overall economic rate of return for the civil
works component of the project (95% of the total cost) is estimated at about
20%, with the nine sections of the road ranging between 43% and 11%. These
results were obtained on the assumption that all nine sections will be recon-
structed commencing in 1980. In addition, a sensitivity test has been carried
out assuming that the section with the lowest economic rate of return (section 9)



- 16 -
would not be included in the proposed project. Under the conservative assump-
tion that this would reduce the generated traffic of sections 1 to 8 only on
the order of the traffic generated by section 9, the economic rate of return of
section 9 would increase from about 11% to 14%, if the foregone benefits of
sections 1 to 8 from the lost generated traffic were attributed to section 9.
Sensitivity tests applied to the economic evaluation consider a 15% increase
in costs, a 25% decrease in benefits, no time savings and a two-year delay in
the completion of the project. In the various cases, the overall rate of
return is 18% (cost increase), 15% (benefit decrease), 16% (time savings
omission) and 15% (delay). The rates of return are furthermore insensitive
to variations of the shadow exchange and wage rates that could be applied
within a reasonable range.
50.       An incremental analysis has been carried out for the first three
sections (totalling 17.7 km) for which a four-lane divided highway is proposed.
Two alternative design standards were compared with constructing a four-lane
divided highway:
(i) staged construction: Stage I - completion of earthworks and
construction of one two-lane carriageway; Stage II - completion
of construction and addition of the second carriageway in year
2, 5 or 10 after completing of Stage I; and
(ii) constructing only a two-lane highway parallel to the existing
road.
The incremental analysis demonstrated that constructing a four-lane divided
highway is economically superior to alternatives (i) and (ii), and thus
constitutes the optimal solution for the project.
Risks
51.       Particular attention was given during project preparation to the
major sources of implementation problems encountered in past highway con-
struction projects in Uruguay. The procurement phase of the project presents
no special risk. Past experience with similar projects in Uruguay, however,
shows that delays in project implementation of one or two years were common,
mainly because of inadequate project management. To help overcome the
problem, the proposed project includes strengthening of civil works supervi-
sion by an experienced consultant firm.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay and the
Bank, and the Report and Recommondations of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section IV (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The hiring of the consultants for the supervision of civil works in
the construction would be a condition of effectiveness (paragraph 45).



- 17 -
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 5, 1979



ANNEX I
-  18  -Pan  1
URUGUAY -WmL INDICATORS DATA SHET
URUGUAY                     nFEUNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVRGZS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1K1.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            177.5                                                   SAME        SAME     NXT NIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     154.4                                MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME      1NOOE
1960 fb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP Ld    GROUP Lj
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 630.0       900.0    1450.0           1066.7     1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     825.0       930.0     942.0           911.1      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         2.5         2.7       2.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 72.6        78.1      80.6             57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        15.0       16.0            25.6       27.6        55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     16.0        17.0       18.0            77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         28.0        28.3      28.0             42.0       34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                         64.0        63.5      63.5            52.2        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   8.0         8.2       8.5              3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.5         0.6 /f    0.4 /f           2.7        1.6         2.9
URBAN                              2.8         1.2       1.0              4.3        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0        22.1      20.4             35.8       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.5         9.2       9.3              9.1        9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION BATE              1.4         1.4        1.4             2.6        1.9         1.6
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WHOMEN)    ..         ..        ..             15.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             90.0       100.0      99.1            102.1      103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  115.0       114.0      116.0           103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          93.0        96.0      98.1             60.3       77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       60.0        64.0      62.6             26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      1.8         1.3        1.1             8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    67.2        69.3      69.8             62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           47.4        42.6      48.1             56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        92.0      98.0            60.7        67.7        83.0
URBAN                               ..       100.0    100.0              78.0       83.5       100.0
RURAL                               ..        59.0      87.0            34.9        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        82.0      83.0            61.1        70.3        57.8
URBAN                               .,        97.0      97.0            80.3       90.7         99.3
RURAL                               ..        13.0      17.0            25.4        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          1100.0 /g    940.0     910.0 /h       1899.3    1310.8         976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     7680.0      3340.0    3530.0 /h       1220.1      849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            180.0       150.0        ..           422.3      275.4        325.8
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           258.2      129.9        250.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..          2281.6      965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..            25.6        18.9       18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.8 L        ..        ..             5.2        3.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.5 ft       *-        *              2.0        0.9
URBAN                              1.5 /t       ..        ..             2.1        0.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             78.0  t       ..        ..            51.2       59.2
URBAN                             88.0 L        ..        ..            77.3       78.0
RURAL                             29.0  t       ..        ..            12.8       12.5



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                             P  2
URUGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAy                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
-  OST RECENT ESTIMTE)
SANE         SAXE     NEXT HIGEER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOIIE
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 111,0        106.0       95.0            103.5         97.6        104.1
FEMALE               112.0        103.0       94.0            102.9         87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  37.0         57.0       62.0             37.2        47.8         44.7
FEMALE                38.0         63.0       68.0             37.9         42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 23.0           21.0       19.0             14.7        22.7          18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             31.0         29.0       23.0             32.8         25.4         30.6
SECONDARY                           13.0           ..         ..             17.8        24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         90.0          91.0      94.0              74.9        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          39.0         45.0       55.0             26.9        32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         285.0        346.0      495.0            173.5       201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9.0         52.0      116.0             69.4        97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        140.0        ..              72.8        70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0             ..         ..               4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1000.0 /i   1020.0    1200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    24.6         27.5       28.5             21.4        17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               18.0         17.0       13.2              37.8       38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  29.5         31.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 40.1         38.6       38.5              30.8        33.7        40.1
MALE                                   60.6         56.4      55.5              47.2        50.8         55.8
FEMALE                                 19.7         21.1      21.8              13.2        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.0       0.9               1.7         1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                  19.0 /j                     28.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    .            47.5 1J      ..             57.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        .          4.4         ..              3.2         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..        14.2 /1                     10.7        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 2. ..                    .            251.9
RURAL                                                      183.0            200.6       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..            .      551.0            403.1       448.8
RURAL                                  .                   257.0            258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  .           ..       26.0             24.8        23.2
RURAL                                  .           ..       30.0             65.2        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   e High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976); /f Due to emigration during 1960-70 and 1970-75, population growth
rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /f  1962;  /h  1972;  Li  1963;  aj  1967.
Septeaber, 1978



Z a   = OC                  C    OC;                 8           a E0    cV3n o a--    C OCF CC
o c,s.5                                                                       fc4W-!v    
- _      a.                                                     ar=, n,a>    'rY 
o            *-F         CE .0 nO .EF .o                                                                                      C. aEEC _Yuu 
I  ts   ZC b b " _                < o > 8                C ~~~.  n . b  C                                     V,    __ov__a bE nu s  
-        !2Zv   -                                                                                              -C    P>a3N       
_                n o                                            V                                                    FEC         _
_   n                                                       E                                                     LEE  >>u  t D:
4~~~~                ~        ~~~~ 3  .                  .--.  0oi 
_~~~~~~~                                     00 .-- _t FEOFOOec       EX3o                       82rb        o   
_ _   _  ZE   S                                0cE                                                                      
e EO                                                      . a                                                                2E.  FE    n  -
_ ZZ LO  <FIaF                      _          0 .,]                                                                    C O  OC
.01,Cz.                                             C          [LHC.                                                              U       .R    



-21-                                                                          ANNEX I
DRPINTTI    W  #I:IAL INICA TORs                                                                 Page s
Notes:   Although the dota are drawn from courses generally judged the t-t astheritative And relibla, it aheold  lse ha noted that they may not be ieter-
nationally coeparahie because of the lack of standardized definitiona and cencepte used by different ceontries in collecting the data. The data are, nonethelese,
useful to describe orders of megnitude, indicate trende, and characterise certain mjor differancee between ceuntries.
The adiuuted group averages for each indiostor are population-weighted geematrio mea.ns, eerludigs the estreme v-lue- of the indicator and the meat
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends en Availability of data and is not onifrm. Dfe to ltck of data,
gro_p averages for Capital Sorplos Oil Enporters and indicators of access t wa ter and encreta disposal, hbsaing, income distribtiom and povarty are
saiple population-a ighted geometric teens without the excluslon of extreme valus
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kn)                                                             Population por hospital bed - total, urban. And rural - Population (total.
Total - Total surface ares comp,isiog land er-a a          l-n d eters,                   urban, And rural) divided by their respective smber of hospital bads
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural sre  used temporarily                 available in public And private general and specialized hospital and re-
or peoanently for crops, pastures, narkat and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitatien centers.  Hospitala are astablishmente permanently staffed by
lie fAllow                                                                             At la.at one physician.  Eetzblihmants providing principally custodial
care Ae nt included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and mdi-
CNP fiR CAPITA (10$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices.                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physacian (but by a medical ae-
calculated by 0000 conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 bsi):                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acceadation and
l9h0, 192,  and 1977 dota.                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admisaiona per hospital bed - Total number of  deiseLens to or disuhargas
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comercial energy                     from haspitals divided by the sumber of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, catural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal el_riricity) in kilograms of coal equivalect per c-pita.                   HOUSING
Average aie of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL SIATIISTICS                                                           A bussehuld consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total Population  mid-vear (millions) - Ar of July 1; if net available.                   and thair main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
overage  of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 datae                         the household for statistical purpase.     Statistical definitions of hbuae-
Urbun porultaion (cect  of total) - Ratio of urhan to total pepu1a-                     hbld vary.
t,ns; different definitions of urben areas may affect comparability                  Average number of persons Per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data umnong cuotries.                                                               ber of persona per room in all, urban, end rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permnent structurs and
Per  sq. k. - Mid-year popula.tos per square kilameter (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parta.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (Percent of dwellings) - total, urban, nd rural -
Per sq. kh. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
PopulatioA age srcucture (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (61 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year populatio...                                                                    djuste  enolmntrtios
P.opulation growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primy echou1 - total. and female - Total and female enrollment of all Ages
growth rutes of total snd urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70. and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; norlly includen children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth  rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary educatico; for countries with universal adu-
mid-your population; tea-year arithetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may ecceed 100 percent aice some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year aretago ending in 1975 for most recent etimate,                      bove the official school age.
Crude deutu rate (pet thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secendacy school - total. and fem1e - Computed As above; secondary edoca-
year poyluction; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fire-pysr average ending in 1975 for most recent eAtimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
ross  production rate -Average nu bnr of d-ughtnesw Aa n  will boar                      usually of 12 to 17 years so oge; correspondente .oursas are groansly
in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                      excluded.
specific fertility rates; osually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vocational enrollment fPercemt of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clude technical, industrial, or other programs which uperact  independently
Family plannIng - euceotore. annual (thousands) - Annual nsober of                       or as departments of sucondary institutions.
acueptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primarc, And secocdary - Total students enrolled in
puonning progra.                                                                       primary and secondary levele divided by numbers of teachers in the  orre-
aunily ploning - user  (corcont of etrried umeni - Percentage o                         spending levels.
marrrid  on.en of child-bearing Age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (peresnt) - Literate adults (eblb  to read and  ritce) a
de-ices to ol married womee in .s.e age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
POOl AllD NUTRITI0N                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per c-pita (1971-100) - Index number of per                  Pasenger care (per thousand  pupulation) - Passenger cars comprise motor care
ropita annual production of all food coenodities.                                    seating lees than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses And military
Per capita supply of uglories (percent of reaqireaenta) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivleunt of net food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand popslation) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  A,,ilablh   supplien ronprise domestic production, inports less            broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
euports, a_l changes in stock.  Net  supplies esciufe animal feed, seeds,            receivern in cosntries and in year  when registration of radio sets was in
q-antitiet -d in food proues.ing, and losses in dietribhtiono  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparsble since Aost countries
qu4ireect- once - otiatod by FAO bhsed on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensina
n.  uctiohcy and health cuosidoring coviro-tental cmpeesture, body                  TV receivers (per thousand pooplution) - TV receivers for broadcast to ganert
-.'rghru, ogound,too dictrihutiuns of pupudlation, und allowing 10 per- public perithousan,d Population; occludes unlicensed TV recivers in noun-
ucuc for wuas        . or household leol ..                                            tris a       nd In  ye h   registration of TV sets ws in effect
Per c-cituuu_uly of protein (grams Par day) - Protein content of per                  Newepapur circulation  ret thounsed population) - Ohows the average circ.le-
capita net supply of 1usd per day.  Net supply of food is defined As                   tion of "daily general interest newapaper", defined as a periodicsl publi-
aovoeo  Roquir-omnts fur all countrios establiehad by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general nes.  It is considered to
I  nicimur ullowo.c.  of h0 gruto  of total protein per day And 20 grams               he "daily" if it appeare at leant four tines A Week.
o animal and pulse prutein, of whiuh 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinema ansual attendanue par capita per year - eased on the number of tickets
These standardn are lower than th.o.  uf 75 gras of total protein snd                  sold during the year, including edmissions to drie-in cinemas and mobile
23 .ruro oEf  ninul prtoin uu as average for the wtrld, proposed by                   units.
Pvo in oho Third World Food Surry.
fry   pi: pcrotein oupply fron sninal and pulse - Protein supply of food            fNLOYMlENT
laty fron animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thbouands) - Ecoon.irally active persona, including armed
Childj44jj    1-4) mortulity rote (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unenployed but enuluding housewives, students, et.  Defini-
and in ago group 1-4  -oors, to childuen in this age group.                            tions in various u.untrien are not cumparable.
femal  (percent) - FPEna1 labor force as  percentage of total labor force
HEALTH                                                                                  Ariculture (percent) - Lahbr force in farming, forestry, bunting and fihing
Life urpctot-cy at birth  yearn) - hvnrage number of yeare of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
rroui',ccg at birti; usually five-yeor averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industrv (percent) - Labor force in mining, uonstruction, manufauturing end
und 1971.                                                                              electriciy, water end gas as percentage of total labor force.
Icfhuo  ucraulact   cuco (per tifousnod) - Annual deaths of infants under             Participation rate (percent) - tol, mol. and fema1e - Trial, male, sod
one yeor cf age per thousand live btrhts.                                              fonale labor force as porunrtagen of their respective populations.
Acuona to safe water (peruent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                  These are no's adjusted participation rates reflecting ags-ten
..uhet of poople (rual, urban  uod rural) with reasonsble orras tc                      structure of the populatio, dnd 1-g tice rrnd.
uuce  uoter supply (includes treated surfaue waters or untreated  but               Eoonomic doe2ndency ratio - Ratio of pupulation ucder 15 and 65 and over to
u_cunrunhcuted water tuch an that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor forue in sge group of 15-64 yert.
uud --sotury w-ls1  as percentageu of their respective populations
Io an urban uare  a publcc fountain ut standpost located not more                  INCOlE DISTRIBCTION
thon 200 meters torn a hboue may be uonsidered An being within rea-                 Perce.tage of private income  (buch in cash and kind) received by rirhast 5
so.able -oceus of trit huose.  In rurtu  areas reasonable a-cess would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and pocrest 40 percent
imply  cur the icuseui_ or   nesber  of tho household do not harv  to                  of households.
opor i a   opropurtiunuto part of the day in fetching the family's
water oeedu                                                                        POVERTn TARGET GROUPS
Acresc.. tu _eta dinposl (percercuf pupulacioni - tontl  urban, sod                    Etimatfd sabslute pOv-rty inccno  laev  (US$ per cayire) -          urban and rural -
rur Nl - Number of psoplo (tutal, urban, und rural) served by encreto                     Absulute poverty i.ccue level is that imoose levl below which a nininal
disp-sal uc percentages ut their ropyctin populations.  Efsreta                         nutrit.onully adequate dint plu- esential non-food requirements is not
di.poual may include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
I.reatmet, of huruu eucroea and oaste-water  by water-borse nyste.s                 Eltimated relative poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban sod runal -
,r she uno of pat prc_cs and nimilur installations.                                     Relative poverty incnoe level is that income level less than one-third
P1o1 , ione n_1-ph_ysiu  - PopuLstion dinided by nunb-r of practicing                     per capits perscnal incoer  of tho country.
p',u' d;  zualiiird  cofn a urdical school ot unicerity leelE. reeated populatiot below puveny incoe lovel fuerceni)  - urban aud rrat.l 
Pnpcr._ u K e              _siogperson    frpucli-c divided by number uf                 Percent of polatict (urhac und rural) uuone either "absolute pour" ur
pru_-a: ing             -Iao .d eulu goadauto torsoe, ptcntfe-l nurses, and             "relative puur" whicbhe-r is groater
and, ruut cur qo-
Economic and Sicial Data Division
Econn.Ic Analysis and Projoction. DAp-rtment



- 22-                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 5
(Amounts in millions of US DoTArs
ActualPrecd                                            1974-   1977-   1979 -17                          98      18
1974  1976    ~1977        1978-    1979    1.963         1977    1979       1983
RATIONAL ACCOUNTS
At 1975 - PricesS Exchange Rates                           Average Anual Growth Rates             As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product3,9                      372       3,746        3,896    4,064   4,761         2.4      4.2       4.2                 955       9.      98.
Gains from Terms of Treade ()           5        -3        -811                    34       77        .         .         .1.5                        0.3      1.
Gross Domestic Income                3,552    3,697    3,728         3,907    40-98   INs            1.6      4.9       4'.3               j~l      tr       !U
Import (incl. NipS)                    557       646       775          759       827      998       8.16     3.3       4.8                 15.7    19.4    20.6
Exports       (import capacity)        470       639       744          780       787   1,023       16.4      2.9        6.8                13.2    20.0    21.1
Resource Gap                         -T7        -7        -31           -21       2r0   -775           .        .                            2.5    -0.6    -0.5
Consumption Expenditures             3,270    3,250    3,230         3,320    3,489   3,885         -0.4      3.9       2.7                 92.1    85.0    8023
investment   1  (inc. stocks)          370       454       529          566       646      928      12.7    10.8        9.4                 10.4    14.5    19.2
Domestic Savings                       283       447       498          587       609      953      20.6    10.6       11.7                  8.0    15.0    19.7
National Saving                        259       399       451          520       558      897      20.2    11.2       12.4                  7.3    13.3    18.5
MERCHANIDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                               As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                         38       114       130          149       178      316      50.8    17.0       15.4                  7.7    18.8      22.2
Tntermediate goods amL.fuels)    250           233       325          354       411      671       9.1    12.5       13.0                50.6    44.8       47.2
Fuels and related materials          161       181       227          239       284      364      12.2    11.1        6.4                32.6    30.2       25.6
of which: Petroleum
Cons u'tion goods                     45        54        48           49        53       72       2.2      5.1       7.9                 9.1      6,2       5.1
Total Merch. Deports (cif')          494       582       730          791       926   1,423       13.1    12.7       11.3                    100.0 I       iD0U'fTO
Exports
Primary products ~sc1. fuels)        314       393       364          377       440      755       5.1      9.9      14.4                59.5    52.8       56.5
F'uels and related mnaterials         -         -                                 
of which:  Petroleum                     -         -          -           -        -
Ma nufatrd goods                      67       172       248          337       338      582      54.7    10.9       14.6                40.5    47.2       43.5
Toal MrhExots (fob)                 381      365        fl           1          7    137         17.2    12.7       14.5               I~h X6D           17
Tourism and Border  Trade
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                   126       101       114         125        138      187      -1.4    10.0        7.9
Import Price Index                   106       109       117         124        133      170       3.4      6.6       6.3
Terms of Trade Index                 119        93        97         101        104      110      -6.6      3.5       1.4
Exports Volume Index                  79       148       142         148        155      203      21.6      4.5       7.0
vALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual Data at 1975--  Prices and Exchange Rates                 Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                          357       370       370          362       371      425       1.2      0.2       3.5                11.8    10.6    10.1
industry and Mining                  9 72    1,102    1,127        1,197    1,279   1,610          5.1      6.5       5.9                32.1    34.    38.3
Service                           1,697   __j,761        8~41    ,...862    1,t914   1 1j69        2.6      2.0       3.2                56.1   5.jj6   _..J6
Total                             3,025    3,234    3,338          3,421    3,564   4,204          3.3      3.3       4.2               100.0   100.0  100.0
PUJBT.IC FINANCE  (in current US$)                                                                                                           As Percent of GDP
(Centra Go~v-ernment)
Current Receipts                     588    1,722    2,938         4,495    6,610  22,835        71.0    50.0        36.3                14.4    14.9    15.5
Current Expenditures                 709    1,808    2.796         4.225    6.160  20,330        58.6    48.3        34.6                17.3    14.0    13.8
Bhsdgetary Savings                 -121        -86       142         270       450   2,505          .     78.0      53.5                -2.9      0.9      1.7
Other Public Sector                   54       245       255         390       575   2,210       67.5    50.0       40.0                  1.3     1.3      1.5
Public Sector Investment            182        573    1,009        1,325    2,025   7,070        77.0    41.9       36.5                 4.4      4.6      4.8
US $ mi ilon
CURRENT EXCPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual         Prelim.   Eat.    Proj.           DETAIL ON                                At end 19 75  P and ER
As 5 Total Current Expend.)                19 75    1976       19 77     1978    1983          PUBLIC SECTOR                        First Plan        of Total,
Education                                   .         .         .          .       .           INVESTMENT PROGRAM                     (1976/81- 1976 /81)
Other Social Services..                              ..          .        ..        .          Social Sectors                             118          11.0
Agriculture                                 ..       .           .        .         .Agriculture                                          233          21.8
Other Economnic Services                    .        .          .          .       .           Indlustry and Mining                       108          10.1
Administration and Defense                  .         .         .          .       .           Power                                      314          29.3
Other                                                                                          Transport and communications               224          20.9
Total Current Expenditures                  .        .          .          .       .           Other                                       74           6.9
_______________________________________________________________________  Total Expenditures                      1,070              -
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1960-      1965-    1970-   1978 -         FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               .1965       1970      1975    19%3
Average ICOR                                          rr.39      37T         .M3    -                Public Se,ctor Savings                 438          40.9
Import Elasticity                                    -6.40        6.57    -0.08                     Program aid counterpart                487           45.5
Ddo'ginal Domestic Savings Rate                       0.14      -0.14       0.19                    Foreign Project Aid                    145           13.6
Marginal National Savings Rate                        0.04       -0.17      0.16                    Total Finanicing                     1,070          15.7o
LABOR FORCE AND)                                  Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (1975          Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKERN                 In Millions           %6 of Total          1963 - 75          in U.S.Dollars       Percent ofAv-ernge          1963 - 75
1963        19 75    1963       19 75     Growth Rate          1963        1975       .19 63      1975~   Growth Rate
Agriculture                      0.18         0.21    17.9        19.8          1.3              2, 366     1,762        0.79       0.60         -2.2
Industry                         0.26        0.31    25.7         29.0          1.5              3,519      3,439       1.18       1.16          -0.2
Service                          0.56        0.55    36.4         51.2         -0.2              2,932      3,143       0.98       1.06           0.6
Total                            IDU         177    IOW NTW .                                        i       75)        flG'       fl0           -0. 1
not applicable         - nil or niegligible
not available         -- less than half the
smallest unit shown



BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
7amounts in milliais of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                         Estimated                                   Projected                                     Growth Rate
1974        1975        1976         1977          19 78                     1979        1980         1981        19           19R3        1978-1983
SuMMARY 8ALANCE OF PAYMhNTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                     500.0       551.0       696.0       871.0         968.0                    1,047.0     1,178.0      1,324.0      1,517.0      1,')9.0         14.1
Imports (incl.jNFS)                    500.0        676.0       704.0       907.0         941.0                   1,100.0      1,247.0      1.402.0      1,533.0      1,696.0         12.0
Resource alance X-M)                   -93.0       -125.0       - 8.0       -36.0          27.0                      -53.0       -69.0         -78.0       -16.0         43 0
Interest (net)                         -26.0        -42.0       -50.0       -44.0         -42.0                     -39.0        -44.0        -51.0        -60.0        -68,0         14.1
Other Factor Services                  -16.0        -30.0       -24.0       -23.0         -30.0                     -28.0        -30.0        -33.0        -37.0        -40.0          9.9
Workers' Remittance                        _-                      - _         _             _                          _           _
CurrentTr nsa es (net)                  17. L                                               7.0 .0                                10.0         11.n         12.0 D.0I                 10.2
Balance          tAccounts            -118.      .0             -74.0       -97.0         -38.0                                                            101.0
Private Direct Investment                 -            -           -           -             -                          -           -             -
Official Capital Grants                  5.0          5.0         5.0          *
Public M5LT Loans
Disbursements                        289.0       284.0        215.0       205.0         152.0                     174.0        203.0        212.0        238.0        259.0          5.8
-Repaysmnts                          -125.0      -182.0      -148.0       -187.0       -107.0                     -100.0      -103.0        -102.0       -125.0       -141.0         5.7
Net Disburserents                      164.0       102.0         67.        --178.0        4.(                       74.0       T10.0         110.0       3TTJ          118.0          6.0
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements
-Repymtents
Ne Disbursements                       -20.0         -94.        47.0       I,___                                                                           25.0         25.0
73.0        72.0        _278 Actul-3i.0           -7.0   Estimated
Capital Transactions n.e.i.            -B9.0       103.0         66.0       139.0         187.0                     .~36.0       -38.0 1974       1975      1976       1977        1978
Change in Net Reserves                  58.0         73.0     -112.0       -161.0        -194.0         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
GRAtlT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                              Public Debt Out. & Disbursed  516.0       615.7      684.3     707.0        795.2
Official Grants & Grant-like             5.3         5.4           -           -                          Interest on Public Debt       30.8      46.1      57.2       56.3         67.1
Repayments on Public Debt   125.3      181.9      148.3     186.8        107.4
public BLT Loans                                                                                         Total Public Debt Service   156.1       228.0      205.5     243.1       174:5
IBRD                                    -         52.0           -           -                         Other Debt Service (net)       ...       ...        ...       ...
IDA                                           -            -                 -                         Total Debt Service (net)       ...       ...        ...       ...
Other Multilateral                    21.8        60.1           -         15.0                      Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governments                          107.2        20.1          3.8          -
Suppliers                             16.4         27.2         3.9         1.6                        Public Debt Service            31.2      41.4       29.5      27.9        18.0
Financial Institutions                51.0       245.9         84.6        83.6                        Total Debt Service                                 ...       ...
Bonds                                190.0       111.8         35.0       130.0                        TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.        34.4     46.8      33.0       30.6         21.1
Public Loans n.e.i.                    -c-4-
Total Public MALT Loans                386.4       517.1        127.3       230.2                      Average Terms of Public Debt
MTERAL DEBT                                  LActual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31.1977                      Int. as % Prior Year DO&D       9.0      8.9        9.3       8.2          9.5
World Bank                                  42sbia.se Only               Percent                         Amort. as % Prior Year D&D  36.4        35.3       24.1      27.3         15.2
WDA                                              75.6                       10.7
Other ultilateral                                  I..                                                 IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed       70.8     69.4       71.2      75.6         74.2
Governments                                      48.0                        6.8                         "  as % Public Debt O&D        13.7     11.3       11.6      10.7         9.3
Suonliers                                       122.2                       17.3                        l  as % Public Debt Service   7.3         4.9       5.8        5.7          7.2
Financial Institutions                           30.7                        4.3
Bonds                                           143.1                       20.2                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Public Debts n.e.i                              287.4                       40.7                        " as % Public Debt O&D
Total Public M&LT Debt                                                                                 'l as % Public Debt Service
707.0                     100.0'
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                  e  staff estismte
... not available separately                                            nil or negligible
but included in  total                                        --  less than half the
smallest unit shown



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of February 28, 1979)
(US$ million)
Amount
Loan                                                            (less cancellations)
No.      Year     Borrower                Purpose               Bank   Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                    155.1        -
1166      1975    Rep. Oriental        Fifth Livestock
del Uruguay          Development            17.0       6.9
1176      1975    Rep. Oriental        Industrial Development
del Uruguay          and Export Expansion  20.8         7.9
1594 1/   1978    Rep. Oriental        Vocational Training and
del Uruguay          Technological
Development             9.7       9.7
Total (net of cancellations)                 202.6      24.5
of which has been repaid                   105.1
Total now outstanding                         97.5
Amount sold                  4.7
of which has been repaid    3.3              1.4
Total now held by Bank                        96.1
Total undisbursed                                        24.5
1/   Not yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - February 28, 1979
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                       business              Loan   Equity    Total
1976      Fabrica Uruguaya de         Motorvehicles           3.80       -       3.80
Neumaticos                 and acessories
1979      Acodike Supergas S.A.       Chemicals and            .95       -        .95
petrochemicals                          _
Total gross commitments                            4.75               4.75
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales
Net held by IFC                                    4.75               4.75
Total undisbursed                                  3.45        -      3.45
C.   Projects in Execution
Loan No. 1166-UR Fifth Livestock Development, US$17.0 million, October 15, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979).
Project disbursements are more than a year behind appraisal forecasts.
As of February 28, 1979, actual disbursements amounted to only US$10.1 million,
compared to the US$17 million projected at appraisal. However, the Government
has issued a series of policy measures since August 1978 that have drastically
improved the heretofore unfavorable relationship between prices of inputs and
outputs in the livestock sub-sector and the Government expects that the
improved investment climate will result in a disbursement of most of the
balance available from the loan (about US$6.9 million) by the end of 1979.
Loan No. 1176      Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project:  US$20.8;
December 4, 1975; (Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project implementation remains slow. Faster commitments and disburse-
ments, however, can be expected due to: (i) recently higher interest rate of
competitive credit lines, especially. eurodollar loans, (ii) new legislation
that will speed up obtention of fiscal incentives, and (iii) a larger pipeline
of export subprojects (US$9.9 million as of November 14, 1978). The administra-
tion of the project, on the other hand, has become weaker due to continuous
loss of operational independence of the appraisal and supervision unit under
the project. The Bank has notified the government of the need to find an
institutional solution. No later than June 30, 1979, the Bank together
with the government will review the performance of UAT under the provisional
arrangement accepted by the government to consider which other actions,
if any, should be taken.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 1594      Vocational Training and Technological Development:  US$9.7 million;
June 23, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
URUGUAY
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Take to Prepare Project:  Twenty montNs (May 1977-January 1979)
(b) Agency which Prepared Project: MOPT and Consultants
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: May 1977
(d) First Bank Mission to Review Project: May 1977
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: August 1978
(f) Negotiations: March 1979
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1979.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a) Vialidad will reorganize its accounting system to show, from
1980 onward, itemized expenditures of routine and periodic
maintenance, minor improvements and construction (paragraph 29).
(b) The Government will exchange views annually with the Bank during
the per.iod of project execution on its maintenance program and
related budgetary proposals in order to review the programs of
periodic maintenance for paved roads, as well as renewal and
acquisition of equipment and assistance to departments for road
maintenance (paragraph 29).



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) The Borrower would carry out an intermodal comparison study
to assist in the coordination of transport policies and
investments (paragraph 31).
(d) When cofinancing arrangements are completed, the draft
Loan Agreement shall be amended to include: (i) a cross
default clause; and (ii) a skewed amortization schedule of
the Bank loan so that approximately equal amortization
payments would amortize both loans and a provision that
disbursements be conditioned on the co-lender's loan having
been fully disbursed for civil works under the project
(paragraph 43).
(e) Vialidad would be the executing agency for the civil works
and related supervision (paragraph 45).
(f) A condition of effectiveness would be the hiring of con-
sultants for the supervision of civil works (paragraph 45).
(g) The borrower will employ consultants for the supervision of civil
works, a four year rehabilitation program, engineering studies for
the first two year period of this program, for a bridge improve-
ment study and to strengthen the transport planning unit. The
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The borrower shall likewise
appoint a project coordinator to liaison between Vialidad and all
other agencies involved in the execution of the project (paragraph
45).



IBRD 1422
N                                        ,              S~~~~~~~~~~~~J
7                                                   -~~~~~~% 
A,7
CM  ,i  W 1,,RK
"7.7,>~ ~ ~~O



