                                             Document of

                                       TheWorld Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT



                                              URUGUAY



                                     SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
                                          (LOAN 1689-UR)



                                          JUNE 10, 1993




        Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
        Country Department IV
        Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

7

                         January 1to December 31, 1992




Metric

1 Metet (m)                                              3.28 feet (ft)
1Kilometet (Km.)                                         0.62 mile (mi)
1Kilogram (Kg.)                                          2.20 pounds (lb)
1 Metric Ton von.)                                       2,205 pounds




ABT          Average Daily traffic
AFE          Administracidn de 10sFerrocarriles del Estado
AID          Agency for International Development
ANCAP        Administracidn Nacional de Combustible,Alcohol y ~ortland
ANP          Administracidn Nacional de Puertos
CIF          Cost Insurance and Freight
CNPA         Comisi6n Nacional de Polftica AeronAutica
DAC          Direcci6n General de Aeropuertos Nacionales
DODE         Directorate of Economics Development Works
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
IDB          Intm American Development Banks
MTOP         Ministry of Transport and Public Works
PLUNA        Primera Lheas Uruguayas de Navegaci6n AQea
RAM          Real Analysis Model
SEPLACODI S e a m a de Planificaci6n Coordinaci6ny Difusi6n
TAMU         Trmportes AQm Militar Uruguayo
TPU          Transport Planning Unit
UNDP         United Nations Development R~yram
V P ~        Vehicles per day

                                                                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                      THE WORLD BANK
                                                    Washington, D.C. 20433
                                                             U.S.A.



Office o f Director-General
   Operatione Evaluation


                                                                                                    June 10, 1993




                        MEMORANDUM TO TRE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TRE PRESIDENT


       SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Uruguay
                        Second Binhway Proqect (Loan 1689-UR)


                        Attached is the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Uruguay
       -   Second Highway Project (Loan 1689-UR)", prepared by the Latin America and the
       Caribbean Regional Office.                  The report, written some six years after loan
       closing, does not include a borrower review of the project (Part 11).                              However,
       the report is of satisfactory quality and incorporates findings of a brief
       borrower implementation report issued within one year after project completion.

                        Project objectives, characterized in the PCR as modest, were vague:
       to reestablish a borrower-Bank working relationship in highways and continue
       improving the sector. Project components were physical investments and measures
       to imprwe transport sector management.                      After substantial delays, the project
       was successfully implemented.                     Overall project performance               is rated as
       satisfactory, institutionaldevelopment as partial, and sustainability as likely.


       Attachment




              This docunmt has a restricted distribution and mey be u s d by recipients only i n the prfonnance of
              their official duties. I t s contents m y not otherwise k disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                     URUGUAY

                                      PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                                  Table of ContenQ



                                                                                                                 m e No.

PREFACE             .................................................... ii

EVALUATIONS-Y                      ............................................ iii

PART I PROJECI' REVIEW FROM BM+X'S I % ~ S P E C I m

  1. Project Identity           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
  2 Bakgound
    .                ...................................................                                                    1
  3 Project Objectives and Description
    .                                              ....................................                                    2
  4 Project Design and Organization
    .                                            ..................................... 2
  5. Project Implementation ........................................... 3
  6 ProjectResults
    .                       ................................................ 5
  7 Sustainability ................................................. 6
    .
  8 Bankperformance
    .                           ..............................................                                             6
  9 Borrower's Performance
    .                                   ..........................................                                         6
   10 Project Relationships
      .                               ...........................................                                           7
   11 ConsultingServices
      .                             ............................................ 7
   12 Project Documentation and Data
      .                                             .................................... 7

          PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................. 9

PART Ill STATISTICALINFORMATION                       ..................................                                  10



    1 Related Bank Loans
     .                            ............................................                                            11
   2 Project Time Table
      .                           ............................................                                            12
    3 Estimated and Actual Scheduleof Disbursements
      .                                                               ...........................                          13
   4.EstimatedandActualCosts ....................................... 14
   5.Project ImplementationSchedule (Civil Works) ........................... 15
   6 Status of Loan Covenants
      .                                   .........................................                                        16
    7.Economic Reevaluation of the Project ................................. 18
    8 Use of Bank Resources Mission Data
      .                              .                    ................................                                 19




  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
  of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                             URUGUAY

                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                         SECONDHIGHWAY PROJECT m a n 1689-UR)




                                             PREFACE


       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Highway Project in Uruguay, for
which Loan 1689-UR in the amount of US$26.5 million was approved on Bpfil 17. 1979. The loan
was closed on Juae 30. 1986, two years behind schedule, when (US$24.6 million) was disbursed, and
US$1.9 million was cancelled.

       The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Country Department IV (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and
m.)The    Borrower sent a brief PCR in May 1987. Due to lapse of more than 5 years since the
conclusionof the projezt, it is not expec&d that the borrower will have any significant contributionto
make towardsPart II (Project Review from Borrower's Perspective) other than the data and comments
given in the Borrower's PCR of May 1987, which have already been incorporated in this report.


                                                    iii


                                               URUGUAY

                                  PROJECI' COMPLETION REPORT

                           sECOND     HIGHWAY PROJECT (Loan 1689-UR)

                                      EVALUATION SUMMARY



1.      The main objectives of the project, the establishment by the Bank of a working relationship in
regards to the highway sector in Uruguay, and the initiation of improvements in the sector by
improving a highway connecting Uruguay with its neighbor Brazil, were basically achieved. The
technical assistanceprovided under this project helped define a long termplan for the highways, and
helped provide a framework for the restructuringof the railway system.



2.       There were substantial delays in the implementationof the Civil Works, initially in the
evaluation of the bids, and later, rather more seriously, in obtainingthe land appropriations for the
project and the relocation of the utilities from the area to be covered by some of the new alignments
of Route 8 (Para. 5.5). As a result, the loan closing date had to be extended twice and the loan was
closed two years later than the date foreseen at appraisal.

3.       Changes in the country's monetary policies resulting in frequent devaluations of the
Uruguayan peso reduced the cost of the project (in US$ terms), which enabled some additional works
to be included for Bank financing (Para. 5.6) and eventually led to the cancellation of US$1.9 million
out of the Bank loan of US$26.5 million (Para. 53).



4.       The Project as originally conceived was sustainablein as much as it resulted in the
development of a long-term program for the improvement of the generally rundown highway
infrastructureof Uruguay, which has incidentallybeen followed up in the subsequenthighway/
transport sector projects.



5.       This was a relatively small project with modest objectives which were largely achieved,
although there were substantial delays. The execution of the Civil Works and their Supervisionwere
germally competenty done, although it seemsthe problem of land acquisition and relocation of
utilities from the projects area were inadequatelystudied at the time of the preparation of the project.
There is evidence that some of these delays affeded the performance of the Contractors. This project
highlightsthe need for adequate attention to this important subject at the time of project preparation.

6.       The project served to strengthen transport sector planning. Technical assistance to the
Transport Planning Unit (TPU)helped define a long-term development plan for highways and
bridges, which has formed the basis of the subsequent two projects in Uruguay, and prepared
recommendationsconcerningappropriaterefonns in the role of the railways, on which the pattan for
the restructuring of the A.F.E. in the following years has by in large been based.


                                         URUGUAY
                                                letion Re~od
                           Second Hinhwav Proiect b a n 1689-UR)

                      PART I Proiect Review from Bank's Pers~ective
                               -



1.1 Project Name                Second Highway Project
    Loan Number                 1689-UR
    Loan Amount                 $26.5 million
                                (reduced to $24.6 million)/l.9
    03-Financing                $5.0 million, by the Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada
    Total Project Cost
      at Appraisal              $61.2 million
    Actual Project Cost         $52.8 million
      RVP Unit                  Latin America and the Caribbeau Region
      03-                       Uruguay
      Sector                    Transport
      Sub-Sector                Highways



2.1 The concen*on      of Uruguay's commercial activity and population in the capital city of
    Montevideo is reflected in the country's transport system which developed road and rail
    permanent ways extending radially north, east and west from the poli it an region around
    the seaport of Montevideo. At the time of the inception of this project, roads accounted for
    about 73% of the traffic, rail 2046 and water 746.

    Of the road network of some 50,000 km., at the time of appraisal 9800 km.were national
    roads (Map IBRD 14225), the remainder of the network's nearly 40,000 km. consisted of
    secondary and feeder roads. Although the coverage of the national road network was
    adequate, its principal problems were its old standards, age and seriously deteriorated
    condition, notably on the internationalco~lnectionswith Argentina and Brazil which have
    considerable importance, given the country's reliance on trade and tourism with its neighbors.
    The Bank's first operation, a highway loan made in 1963(FirstHighway Project, loan 324-
    UR for US$18.5 million) was made to financethe improvement of Route5 from the outskirts
    of Montevideo (Progreso) to Rivera on the Brazilian border. It also helped to initiatethe
    strengt&eningof the highway maintenance, includingthe purchase of equipment, and a
    highway planning study. Thii study formed the basis for the organizationof a regular
    maintenanceprogram for Uruguay. The firstHighway Project was completed in 1972.

2.3 Following a Bank Transport Sector Review undertaken in 1974,the Government of Uruguay
    obtained UNDP financingto carry out a comprehensive swey of the transport sector. The
    survey was entrusted to consultantsSOTECNI, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency; the
    draft SOTECNIreport was submitted in early 1977and pointed out the needfor improvamnt
    in sector management,and for systematic and coherent programs for rehabilitationand
    reconstructionof the main national roads. In the same year the Miter for Public Works

suggested to the Bank various Highway Projects of which the first priority was given to Route
8 leadiig from Montevideo to the Brazilian border.

The first Project Brief was prepared following a Bank Mission in October 1977. The
construction element of the project envisaged the rehabilitation of about 130km.of Route 8
from Pando outsideMontevideo to a point about 30 Km.north of Minas. (This was amplified
during appraisal -see para. 3.2). There was basic agreement on the need for this project,
althoughthe Bank felt that there was a degree of over design in the road-plans, and it was
suggestedthat an Economic study should be carried out to define precisely the size of the
project and the design standardsto be applied in the light of the growing traffic density. The
Project Brief also highlighted the importance of sector planning, and the need for preparation
of plans to set up a Transport Planning Unit for improving sector madination.

The consultantfor the Economic Study was selected in early 1978and upon the conclusion of
the consultants' report, the Second Highway Project was appraised in August-September
1978.



                   : Theproposedprojectwas aimed atreestablishingtheBank's dialoguein
regards to the highway sector and to prepare further improvements in the direction suggested
by the Transport Swey, in particular to assist the Government:

(i)     In improving the integrationof the northern area of the country and Brazil with
        Montevideo, the capital of Uruguay and its principal seaport;
(ii)    In strengtheningTransport Sector Management especially with regard to the Planning
        aad programming of the highways and the testructuringof railways.

-:                    The project consisted of:

(a)     Reconstructionof 140Kms. of Route 8, between Punta Rieles (Km. 13from
        Montevideo) aad Arroyo Marmaraja (Km. 153) including:
        (i) Civil works by contractors; and
        (ii) Supervisionby Consultants
(b)     Strengtheningof Transport Sector Management and Studies including:
  .     (i) Preparation of a four-year road rehabilitation and reconstruction program;
        (@ W e d engindug of roads for the first two-year tranche of the program; and
        (iii) Technical assistanceto strengthen and improvetransport sector planning.

Thetotal estimated cost of the project including contingencies was about $61.2 million. The
foreign exchangecomponent was about $31.5 million of which $26.5 million was to be
fhanced by the Bank loan, and the balance $5.0 millionby the Bank of Nova Scotia. The
Govunment would fhnce the entirelocal cost of $29.7 million.



Theproject was designedto start rehabilitation of the national road network, and to initiate
thes t m g h h g of the Government's transport sector planning capability. Theexecution of

       the project was entrusted to the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP). The
       National Roads Directorate (Vialidad) was the executing agency for all project components
       except the transport sector planning component which was under the National Directorateof
       Transportation(DNT). A Project Coordinator responsibleto the MTOP coordinatedand
       served as liaison between Vialidad and the various agencies involved in the execution of the
       project.

4.2    Procurement under the project was carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelinesfor
       Procurement". During negotiations bidding and contracting procedures were reviewed and
       agreed, as were termsof reference for consultingservices and technicalassistance. The
       indicatorsto be used for monitoring the project were also agreed and the borrower was
       required to prepare a project compldon report within six months of the loan closing date.



5.1    Loan EWveness and Project Start-w

       The project was appraised in August-September 1978, negotiated in March 1979, and
       approved by the Board in April 1979. The Loan Agreement was signed in June 1979 and
       became effective in December 1979.

5.2    Preparatory work for supervisingthe project started in May 1979 when a Bank mission
       reviewed the terms of reference for the Consultantsfor supervisingthe Civil Works, and
       agreed to a shortlistof firms to bid for the Supervision. A follow-up Bank mission in
       October 1979 reviewed the project start-up arrangements, and prepared the termsof reference
       for consultantsto prepare the Four Year Program for the rehabilitation and reconstructionof
       the.highways and bridges. The tenders for the Civil Works were opened in late November
       and the borrower's recommendations were approved in March 1980. The variants with the
       cementconcretepavements were evaluated, the lowestfot sections 1,2 and 3, whereas section
       4 was awarded as originally foreseen with an asphaltpavement. The following awards were
       approved by the Bank:
       Section 1and 2               Tracoviax S.C. (Uruguay)
       Section 3                    Techint SACI (Uruguay)
       Section4                     ConsorcioDepival (Uruguay)

5.3    Civil Worh started almost 10months Mind schedulemainly because of the delays in the
       evaluation of the bids occasioned by the lively interest of the bidders and the alternatives
       offered (40 bids including 15 foreign bids, plus 50 alternatives). The Bank agmdthat the
       supervisionof the Civil Worh on Route 8 would be d e d out by a Joint venture of the four
       firms which had designed the Highway 1' providing that the staffing would be satisf&tory to
       the Bank and an expatriate chief engineer would be appointed. The Bank's "no objection" to
       theSupervision Contract with Consorcio 8 was given after the appointmentof Ing. Arturo
       Panzarini (kg-)        as Chief Engineer and Ings. Ardaaaz Vamlini and Lindmayer as
        Resident eqhems.


U They alsocarriedoutsatisiimorilytheevaluationof theprequalificationof thecontractorsandthe
bids for the civil works.

5.4 As the first step towards improvingtransport planning and co~rdination,the Transport
    Planning Unit V U ) was established in the National Directorate of Transportation(DNT) in
    MTOP and a French Transport Economist (Mr. Alain Wartel) was appointedto lead the
    Technical Assistancefor the Transport Sector.

5.5      iect Execution
    A chronological account of the important steps in the execution of the civil works is given in
    Table 5 (Part III). It is noted from this table that there were substantial delays in the
    implementation of the civil works. Review of the supervisionreports indicatesthese were
    caused by:

    (i) Delays in obtaining the land appropriationsand in many cases protracted litigationsto get
    the rights to the corridors required for the project.
    (ii) Hold-ups in the relocation of public services (telephone, water and other services) from
    the land required for the project, particularly in Section 1 where the maximum delays
    occurred.
    (iii) Some delays occurred due to difficulties experienced by the contractorsparticularly in
    Sections 1 and 2 and partially in Section 4 (due to the bankruptcy of one of the partners).
    Some of the organizationalproblems which appear to have arisen mainly in the initial stages
    were caused by the delays referred to in (i) and (ii) above and tended to get resolved as the
    work garhered momentum. In fact as the work progressed, efficiency increased, and towards
    the end, not only the original project, but also the additional items (para. 5.6) were executed
    expeditiously and with fairly high standardsof workmanship.

5.6      iect w:The           loan was initially intended to finance51% of the Civil works and
    related supervisioncharges by consultants. However followingthe changes introduced by the
    Government in the exchange rates policy in 1982, and the rapid devaluationof the Uruguayan
    peso, there was a general drop in the costs (See para. 5.7). Therefore as the project
    progressed there were lower withdrawals from the Bank loan than forecast, resulting
    eventually in the request of MTOP for loan financing of 60%of the project cost instead of
    5196. This was approved by the Bank in May 1983. Proposals were also made by h4TOP
    for f b n c h g certain additional works which were reviewed by the Bank and the following
    items were selected for addition to the main project:

    i) Access to Soca, comprising a bypass and rehabilitationof a 12Km.section of the old
    Route 8.
    ii) I m p m v m of Route 11between Route 7 and Route 8, but to somewhat more modest                 .
     standatdsthan proposed by the borrower.
     iii) Rehabilitation of a 20 Km.section of Route 13, a major feeder from the rice-growing area
     in NE Uruguay to Route 8.

    Tht additional projects added approx. US$4 million to the project of which USS2.2 million
     was in foreign exchange.

5.7  -:               Retails of the estimated and actual project costs are given in Table 4 (part III).
     'Ihetotal cost of the projecttogetha with the additional works (para. 5.6) worked outto
     USS52.8 million as againstthe estimated cost of USS61.2 million. The reduction in cost
     came about mainly due to the substantial devaluation of the Uruguayan peso followingthe

    economic crisis in 1982and subsequent exchangerate adjustmentsin the following years.
    Substantialsavings were achieved in the Civil Works, which cost USW9.6 million as against
    the estimated US$55.5 million (including contingencies), as well as the Consultant Services
    for supervisionof Route 8 and the improvement of Transport Planning which together cost
    US$3.2 million againstthe estimated $4.4 million. Overall, the project cost at US$52.8
    million was about 86%of the original cost with the foreign exchange component at US$29.6
    million being about 94%of the original estimated cost. The local content at US$23.2 million
    was just a little over 78%of the original estimate of US$29.7 million, due to the rapid
    devaluation of the Uruguayanpeso. Of the foreign exchange component of WS$29.6 million,
    US$24.6 million was financed from the Bank loan and US$5.0 million equivalent by the Bank
    of Nova Scotia.

5.8 Disbufsements: Table 5 (Part III) gives the position of the Estimated and Actual Scheduleof
    Disbursements. Disbursements actually started in the quarter endingMarch 31of FY81 as
    against the Appraisal estimated start nearly a year earlier. By the estimated closing date of
    June 30, 1983only about $14 million out of $26.5 million were disbursed. Two extensions
    of the loan closing date became necessary, first in January 1984to June 30, 1985and then
    again in June 1985to June 30, 1986. Of the loan of $26.5 million, $24.6 was disbursed, and
    the remainder $1.9 million cancelled.




    The objectivesof this project in a sense were modest, to reestablish a working relationship
    with regards to the highway seaor, to initiateimprovements in the highway sector so as to
    better Uruguay's integrationwith its neighbors, and to strengthenmanagement of the transport
    sector planning in general. An important start was made in the achievement of all these
    goals. The reconstruction of Route 8 and the connections (additionalworks added later)
    improved access to Brazil, an important and, over the recent years, increasingly larger trading
    partner. The technical assistancefor the TransportPlanning Unit (TPU)helped d-           a long-
    term developmentplan for highways and bridges which has formed the basis of the
    subsequenttwo projects in Uruguay. As a matter of fact preparation and appraisal of the
    Third Highway Project was started midway through the implementationof this project and a
    Transport Sector project is currently being implemented. Technical Assistance also
    strengthened the TransportPlanning Unit, in particular in regard to the role of the Railways
    in Uruguay. As a matter of factthe pattern for the restructuringof the A.F.E. in the
    following years has been based largely on the recommendationsof the study financedunder
    this project.



    The economic reevaluationperformed with the fairly straight forward and standard
    methodology followed during Appraisal showsthat the internal rate of reburnis on maage
    slightly more than 2 percent than appraisale s a , for the nine road sectionsunder xwiew,
    in apiteof the factthat benefits from reduced accidents, which were taken into account at
    appraisal, were not taken into account in post-appraisal. As can be seen in table 7, seven of
    the nine mad sectionshad considerably high rates of returns and only two sectionshad rates

    of return of less than 10percent, which was also the case before appraisal. With Traffic
    levels' ranges from 5844 to 642 vehicles per day, with up to 50 percent trucks,      actual
    trafficwas higher than the projected traffic in 6 out of 9 cases. The combined IRR for the
    whole project was 17.4%.



7.1 Although someaspects of Uruguay's economy deteriorated during the period, the country was
    able to maintain, since the inception of this project, a fair degree of macroeconomic and
    political stability. This, coupled with the fact that the project was generally well-
    implemented, resulted in the subsequent realization and maintenance of the projected benefits
    of the project. The work started in this project for updating the National highway network
    and for improvement of sector planning has been continued in the following projects.



8.1 With 107man days spent in the field on the preparation and Appraisal of this project (Table
    8, Part Ill) this was a carefully prepared project. Two major factors deserve attention in the
    preparation and implementationof this project. The fitst is the scrutiny of designs and
    standardsof the project by the Bank, resulting in some down-sizing of the road and pavement
    designsproposed to the Bank, which tended to be over-ambitions. The second factor was the
    introductionof exchange rate adjustment by the Government of Uruguay in 1982which
    resulted in a significant drop in project costs. This was made up by including a few
    additionalworks which would otherwisehave appeared in the following projects, and by
    increasingthe percentage of Bank participation from 51% to 60%(Para. 5.6).

8.2 The project helped establish a close liaison between the Bank and the Borrower. This was
    rdected in the fact that preparation of the Third Highway Project started in May 1981,
    hardly 17months after the Second Highway Loan became effective, with the Project Brief
    issued in August 1981.



9.1 The MITIP was formed in 1967by combiningthe Ministry of Transport 0and the
    M       i of Obras Publicas (MOP), andhad, in principle, responsibilityfor development of a
    National transport policy, transport coordination, and establishment of tariffs for the transport
    services. However, in e&ct MTOP had only nominal jurisdiction over the policies practices
    and i n v m of the modal agencies, AFE (Railways), ANP (Ports), Pluna (Airlines) and
    AIGAN (Aiirts). The National Directorate of Transportation (DNT) created in 1975within
    MIlIP began to provide somekind of a formal channel of contact between the operational
    agenciesand SEPLACODI(Secretaria de Planificaci6n, Coordinacidn y Difusi6n) the National
    p h h g body responsible for the social and economic planning of the country at the macro-
    level. However until the formulation of this project Transport Planning and intermodal
    c o o r d ~ temained tasks that were neglected rather than wellardinated.
                   n

9.2 In recognition of this deficiency and as a firststep towards improving transport planning and
    coordination, the TransportAdvisory Council was created which was led by DNT and
    included APE,PLUNA, DIGAN, ANP and SEPLAODI and was followed by the creation

     of the Transport Planning Unit (TPU).Technical Assistance to strengthenthe TPU was a
     high-priority component of this project. In effect therefore the reorganization and
     strengthening of the transport planning function in the government was started in this project.
     (See also para. 11 below).

9.3  Largely due to the improvement of the transport unit the government in general cooperated
     well with the Bank in the implementationof the project, notwithstanding the initial delays in
     bidevaluation (Para. 5.3) and the protracted hold up in obtainingland appropriationsand the
     relocation of public utilities (Para. 5.5). The drop in Project costs elicited several proposals
     from the Borrower leadingto the inclusion of additional works and other proposals to utilize
     Bank funds (Para. 5.7).



     Bank relationships with the Government and the various agencies dealing with the
     implementation of the project were generally satisfactory.



     The main consulting services for this project were provided for Supervision of the Civil
     Works and in connection with the Technical Assistance for strengtheningthe Transport Sector
     Management. The contract for the Supervisionwas awarded to Consortia 8 a joint venture of
     the four firms which originally designed Route 8 and these consultants also did the bid
     evaluation for the civil works in addition to the Supervisionof the Civil Works. The Bank
     insisted on the appointmentof an outsider (in this case Ing. Arturo Panzarini, an Argentina)
     as the Chief Engineer. The Plan for strengtheningSector Planning essentiallyhad two
     components: (i) the preparation of a Four Year Plan for the Rehabilitation and reconstruction
     of highways and bridges, including detailed engineeringfor the first 2-year tranche and (ii)
     Technical Assistance for the strengtheningand improvementof the TPU. The preparation of
     the Rehabilitation/Reconstructionprogram was entrustedto Consorcio Vialur Engevix who got
     the contract in 1982and delivered their report in 1983, which served as a basis for future
     investments in highways. A french Transport Economist M. Alain Wartel led the techuical
     assistance to the TPU which included, inter alia, a study by "Ferroplan" of the economic role
     of the railways (A.F.E.). This study has formed the basis for the restructuring of the national
     railway system.

12.  Roiect Documentation and D m

12.1 The Staff Appraisal Report was the basis for framiugthe legal documents and provided the
     tale-off point for providing the detailed termsof reference for the consulting services and for
     the supervision of the civil works. Given the long duration of the project, changes in Bank
     Supervision teams, changes in the Government and the Borrower's management, the SAR also
     provided in a sense an on-going the frame of reference concerningthe project origins, and for
     additionslalterationsto the project content which ensured that the basic scope and format of
     the project were maintained.

12.2 Periodic reports from the borrower were received regularly although often with delays. As
     this PCR has been written almost five years after completion of the project, it has h e n

difficult to obtain some of the data required. However the "Informe de Finalizaci6nMof the
Project provided by the borrower in May 1987gives some of the data and figures pertaining
to the project, which together with the supervisionreports and the correspondence in the
project fires,enabled the preparation of this report.

                                 -
                                              URUGUAY



                           S           E            C            O           O




         The Borrower's Comments and Data relating to the Project, given in a brief PCR sent by the
Borrower in May 1987, have beenincluded in Parts I and III of this report. Due to the fact that in
the interveningyears several changes have takenplace in the Government and the mauagement of the
entities responsible for the execution of the project, it was not considered necessary to send parts I
and II for the preparation of Part. II.

-
URUGUAY



         an 1689-URJ

                                    URUGUAY

                                          wav Lpan
                                   (Loan 1689-UR)




11Source: IBRD Statement of Loans

                                          III Table;!
                                             -


                               URUGUAY




~/SOIVCU:IBRD Project Files

                                             13                           Part III Table 3
                                                                                  -
                                        URUGUAY

                                  Proiect Comuktion Reuort
                           Second Hkbwav Roiect b a n 1689-UR1

                       3. Estimated Actual W u l e of Disbursements
                                        N S S million)




1 h a n Appraisal Report 22396-UR,Cumulativefigurea

2/From SupervisionReports (Revised estimatm were updated several times)

w r o m Statementof Loans 1981 to 1986

                                                                          URUGUAY                                                             part 111 Table 4
                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                              PROJECT COMPLETION REPOBT
                                                       SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECI'                  1689-UR)
                                                          Estimated-(US$million)-                        I
                                                  Appraisal Estimates                Actual Costs           Actuals as Percentage of            Bank
                TITLES                                                                                           Estimated Costs             Participation
                                                Local   Foreign Total        Local Foreign     Total       ~ o c d Foreign    TO~I        Amount         %

1 Recommaion of Route 8
 a) Civil works Rt. 8
 b) Access to Soca
 c) Connection Rt. 11
 d) C o d o n Rt. 13
 Sub-Total

2 Consultantsfor Supervision
 and Studies
 a) Supervisionof Rt. 8
   Civil Works
 b) Prepamtion of Four
   Year Plan
 c) Detail Engineding first
   two years
 d) Technical Assistance for
   Transport Planning Unit
 Sub-Total

3 Contingencies
   Physical
   Price
 Sub-Total

4 TOTAL



        I/lhe percentages of Bank disbursementsfor Civil works was raised from 51% to 60%on May 19, 1983

        ZOf the Foreign Exchange cost of $27.76 million for the Civil Works, $5 million was contributed by the Bank of Nova Scotia

        3 m e Actual Cost Figures are taken from the Borrower's "Informe de Finalizacibn". The break-up between the local and foreign costs (not
        given in the Borrower's Report) is based on the Appraisal Estimates as amended by (i) the variations in the Exchange Rates from year to
        year and (ii) the increase in the percentageof bank financing referred to in 11above.

                                                                                                                  Part I11 - T W




                        Source: Borrower's 'Informe de Finalizacidn del Segundo Proyecto de Cmderas', May 1987




ll'lle additional works were not included in the original project appraised

                                                                        Part III - T    w

                      PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                 SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECI' (Loan 1689-UR)
                                   of Loan CovenanQ




                                                                Two extensions of
                                                                Closing Date became
                                                                necessary and project
                                                                was closed as June
                                                                30, 1986

Sec. 3.01 (b)    Appointment of           September 1, 1979     Complied. Project
                 Project Coordinator                            Coordinator was
                                                                appointed on       due
                                                                to late start of project

Sec. 3.01 (c)    Appointment of Civil              -            Complied
                 Works Supervisor

Sec. 3.02        Appointment of                    -            Complied
                 Consultantsfor Part B
                 of project

Sec. 3.03 (c)    Preparation of           Quarterly             Complied, although
                 QuarterlyReports                               with frequent delays

Sec. 3.03 (d)    Preparation of Project   Six months after      Complied
                 Completion Report        completion of project

Sec. 4.03        Preparation of Annual    Annually              Complied
                 Plans of Action for
                 Planning Unit of DNT

Sec. 4.06         Control of dimension              -           Startedunder this
                  and weights of                                project
                  vehicles using national
                  roads

                     a copy of study under
                     Part B (c) of hjea




U IntaDodrl amparbon studyto serveasabashforcoordinationoftheBO~WCD'S
                                                                  transport
policim rad inv-

                                                               Part III Table 7
                                                                       -


                         PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                   RESULTS OF ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION




UAverage A d Daily Traffic (AADT)in Vehicles per Day (vpd).

                                                                              URUGUAY                                                  PAKT I11 - Table 8
                                                                                                                                                   Page 1

                                                              Use of Bank Resources Mission Data
                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                     Project aad agreement on Terms
                                                                                                                     of Reference for Highway
                                                                                                                     Economic Study-

  Transport Seaor Mission        October                4                  6          ECO, ENG, ENG                  Project Brief outlined project and
                                   1 9 n                                                     DC                      issues

  Project Preprntion           April 1978               4                  7          ECO, ENG, FA                   Mission reviewed preparation of
   Mission                                                                             CON l', ENG                   Port and Highway Rojects

  Supervisionof Route 8        May 1978                 I                  2                ECO
    -
   Ecommic Study
                                                                               - - -                       -


  A P P ~                       August  -               2                  7             ENG, ECO                    Issue/Decision Memorandum
                               StP*                                                                                  Oaober 27, 1978. Appraisal
                                   1978                                                                              Report April 5, 1979

n-

   Negatiations               March 1978

   Board Appnnrd              April 1979




    11 Consuitan1provided rpwialisl 4vic.u:on [he likcly economic impact of the Route 8 project an the agricultural and pastoral activities and
    on [ha n 4 lilt imprtW!Itp lt)cn\ tmtlrl in ill^!14r18:1
                                                           of' irrtl~rrnccr~ the hiphwav prnl~v'f
                                                                              f


                                                      URUGUAY                   PART 111 - T a b u
                                                                an 1689-UR)
                                                                . .                        Page 3
                                           Yse of B a n l r - - Mlsslon Data




     Through Appraisal                 107 mandays
     Appraisal to Board Approval       nil
     Board Approval to Effdvenes       9 months
     Supervision                       80   mandays




YTimespentonpreparationof HighwayIII has beenexcluded








