Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           ;g-       IZAW
Report No. 3361a-YDR
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 24, 1981
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1, 1980)
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni Dinar (YD) = 1,000 Fils
YD 1              = US$2.9
US$1              = YD 0.345
YD 1,000,000      = US$2,900,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ft     =  foot                        m        =  meter
ha     =  hectare                     mm       =  millimeter
Km     =  kilometer                   Mm3      =  million of cubic meters
inh    =  inhabitant                  m3/sec  =  cubic meters per second
lcpd   =  liters per capita per day  min       =  minute
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                                        U.K. System
Kilometer (Km)                         =  0.62 mile (mi)
Hectare (ha)                           =  2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)                              =  3.28 feet (ft)
Cubic meter (m3)                       =  220 gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year)  =  0.603 million gallons per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                              =  0.220 gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)              =  19,000 gallons per day (gd)
Kilogram/cm2                           =  0.981 Bar
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
FAO     =   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GDLA    =   General Directorate for Local Administration
IHMD    =   Institute of Health and Manpower Development
PCEP    =   Public Corporation for Electric Power
PDRY    =   People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWC     =   Public Water Corporation
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
PWC's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ..................          I
Backgrond .1
Water Resources .1
Service Levels.                                             4
Constraints to Sector Development.                          4
Sector Development Strategy and Program.                    6
The Sewerage Subsector.                                     6
Public Health Situation.                                    7
II. THE PROJECI' AREA.                                                 8
General. Features.                                          8
Water Production Facilities.                                8
Conveyance Main.                                            9
Existinig Distribution Network .10
Waste Disposal System .10
Public Health Services .11
III. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS .12
Water Production and Consumption .12
Population Forecast and Distribution .12
Housing .14
Forecast of Consumption .14
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT .15
Project Genesis and Concept .15
Objectives of the Project .17
Project Components .17
Cost Estimates ...............               .      ..     19
Project Execution .21
Project Financing .21
Onlending Arrangements .22
Procurement .......................................        22
Disbursement .23
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez and Mr. Aziz Kassab.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE BENEFICIARY .......................................              23
Background ........................................            23
Past Performance ..................................            24
Management and Organization .......................            24
Staffing ..........................................            25
Billing and Collection ............................            25
Accounting Practices and Procedures ...............            26
Taxes .............................................            26
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................................              27
Past and Present Financial Position ...............            27
Revenues ..........................................            27
Financing of PWC's Investment Program .............            29
Future Financial Performance ......................            30
Monitoring System .................................            30
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....................................              31
Objectives of the Proposed Investments ............            31
Economic Justification ............................            32
Environmental Impact of the Project ...............            32
Institution Building ..............................            33
Risks .............................................            33
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................              33
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1. Past and Proposed Investments in Water Supply
2. Population, Service Lines and Water Consumption, Past and Forecast
3. Population and Water Demand
4. Terms of Reference for Study of Artificial Recharge of the Aquifers
Underlying the Wadis Buwaysh, Khirba and Huwairah
5. Terms of Reference for Study of Urban Growth in the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah
Conurbation
6. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance in Health Education
7. Detailed Cost Estimates
8. Annual Project Investments
9. Bar Chart for Bidding and Execution of the Project Activities
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Organization Chart under Implementation



- 111 -
Table of Contents (Continued)
12. PWC - Income Statements - Actual(1978-1980) and Projected (1981-1987)
13. PWC - Table of Sources and Application of Funds - Actual (1978-1980)
and P:'rojected (1981-1987)
14. PWC - Balance Sheets - Actual (1978-1980) and Projected (1981-1987)
15. Assumptions for Financial Projections
16. Monitoring Indicators
17. Calculation of the Internal Rate of Return
18. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map No:
15565 Project Location
15566 Proposed Improvement and Expansion of the Water Distribution Network






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
1.01     Located in the south-western corner of the Arabian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) occupies an area of 338,000
km2 and extends nearly 1,400 km along the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid
land of rugged configuration, with sparse vegetation and few natural re-
sources. The majority of the population lives in the narrow coastal plain
along the gulf. Farther inland to the north, the country becomes very
mountainous, forming what is known as the "Yemen Frontier" where the moun-
tain elevations exceed 2,000 meters. Beyond this frontier, the land
flattens again to form the high plateaux and the Northern Desert, which
extend into Yemen Arab Republic and Saudi Arabia (see Map IBRD No. 15565).
1.02     Overall, a harshly dry climate prevails in PDRY, though it is
milder in the interior plateaux. In general, temperatures in the coastal
areas are more uniform and humid throughout the year than in the interior.
The hottest months are May through September; temperatures higher than
43°C have been recorded in June. Rainfall in the coastal areas is
irregular but more frequent in the winter months; the mean annual rainfall
in the coastal plain is about 50 mm. In the mountainous part of the
country, it is more regular and occurs in summer months; the average annual
rainfall is about 500 mm in this part. The rate of evaporation is high and
runoff is limited even in the irrigated areas.
1.03     Administratively PDRY is divided into six governorates or pro-
vinces. Only one-third of the estimated total population of 1.8 million
(mid-1978) can be considered urban. Almost half of the urban population is
concentrated in Greater Aden, the nation's capital and largest agglomerat-
ion. The second largest city, Al Mukalla, has a population of about
55,000. The remaining urban population is distributed in cities with less
than 10,000 people. About 10% of the total population is nomadic and more
than half of the rural population lives in scattered places that are not
large enough to warrant the installation of public water supply systems.
Water Resources
1.04     PDRY relies essentially on underground water resources for its
supply, as few perennial water streams exist in the country. There are



-2-
seven major catchment areas which drain into eleven wadis of which the most
important are the Hadramout with a drainage area of 23,300 km2, the Bana
with 9,600 km2 and the Tuban with 5,000 km2. Since 1970, various studies
of the major groundwater aquifers have been made by FAO. IDA also assisted
in this area by financing a study of the underground water resources in
Wadi Hadramout as part of an agricultural project 1/ (Credit 615-YDR).
This study was completed at the end of 1979.  The IDA financed Wadi Tuban
Agricultural Development Project 21 (Credit 768-YDR) also includes a
water management study of the Wadi Tuban Aquifer which supplies water to
Greater Aden and irrigation works in the Tuban Delta.  This study, which
will assess the possibilities of increasing the water extraction rate from
the aquifer, is expected to be completed by May 1981.
1.05     Some of the aquifers along the coastal areas have for some time
been overexploited. As a result, sea water has gradually started to in-
trude into these aquifers, causing continuing deterioration of the quality
of the waters. A case in point is the Wadi Tuban Delta where some wells
have been abandoned because of the high salinity content of the ground-
water. Water demands for urban and agricultural uses in this delta have
already exceeded the available goundwater resources. Consequently, water
must be brought in from the adjacent Wadi Bana to meet increasing potable
water requirements in the Greater Aden metropolitan area, a project 3/
which is currently under execution and partly financed by an IDA credit of
US$13.2 million (Credit 1038-YDR); but even this additional supply is not
expected to meet the long-term demand. Depending on the reserve capacity
of the Wadi Bana Aquifer and future development of agriculture in the Bana
Delta, it may be necessary, in order to meet water demands in the Tuban
Delta, to resort to desalination of sea water and recycling of wastewaters
as early as 1990.
1.06     But this situation in Greater Aden is not unique in the country.
Water shortage is chronic in Al Mukalla, the second largest city, for which
expensive infiltration works are required to increase the yields of the
existing adjacent water sources, a problem that the proposed project will
address (Chapter IV). The same can be said for the remaining agglomerat-
ions. For some of them, located in the high plateaux, the only source of
water is scanty rainfall which is collected and stored in unsanitary open
ditches. Some fresh water does exist in the valley surrounding the
1/  Report No. 847a-YDR, Appraisal of Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Project,
January 12, 1976.
2/  Report No. 1727-YDR, Appraisal of Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development
Project, January 25, 1978.
3/  Report No. 2910a-YDR, Appraisal of the Greater Aden Water Supply
Project, May 7, 1980.



- 3 -
plateaux, but the techniques and cost to elevate the water to the top of
the plateaux are prohibitive for PDRY. An example is the urban agglomera-
tion of Laboos for which fresh water must be elevated more than 1,200
meters.
1.07     The Ministry of Agriculture manages all water resources in the
country. A national authority, the Public Water Corporation (PWC), which
reports directly to the Prime Minister's Oftice, is responsible for the
planning, designs construction and operation of public water supply systems
in the country. -:/ Because of the dry climate and low and irregular
rainfall, agricultural production in PDRY is mostly dependent on
irrigation, most of which relies on groundwater, and in some cases, on
surface water from seasonal floods.  Until recently, the Ministry of
Agriculture has not been giving its attention to the problem ot sharing
scarce water resources between urban ana agricultural uses, and in some
instances, to the dire necessity for limiting agricultural expansion. For
example, the unrestricted use of water for irrigation in the Wadi Tuban
Delta may result in the complete depletion of the aquiter.
1.08     As a first step in assisting towards the improvement of the water
supply situation in PDRY, the Association provided a credit or
US$1.2 million (S-21 YDR) in June 1978 to help finance a Water Supply
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project, whose objectives were to
formulate a phased program of works to meet urban water needs in Greater
Aden, Al Mukalla and Laboos up to the year 2000. This engineering project
has already led to the formulation of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project
(Credit 1038-YDR). The Association also emphasized the need tor the
Government to plan more comprehensively the use of the water resources and
to set out their usage priority. The IDA financed studies, mentioned in
paragraph 1.04, were aimed at formulating long range management programs
for the two most important water resources in the country, the Wadi Hadra-
mout and the Wadi Tuban. The Greater Aden Water Supply Project includes a
water management study of another important resource, the Wadi Bana.
1.09     Recently, the Government has set up a Water Committee whose func-
tions are to regulate the collection and allocation of the water resources
and to establish usage priorities. This Committee is made up of represen-
tatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Planning and PWC.
The Association is assisting the Committee in the preparation of a work
agenda and a water code for the country.
1/ In some small towns, PWC has delegated its operating responsibility to
the towns' local councils. However, some water cooperatives or
associations still function principally in rural areas of the country.



-4-
Service Levels
1.10     As indicated earlier in this report, a sizeable segment of the
rural population is nomadic (about 10% of the total population) or scat-
tered in isolated places which are difficult or even uneconomical to pro-
vide with public water supply systems. Thus, it is logical to assume that
these locations will continue to rely on individual wells for their water
supply. Based on this assumption, it is estimated that at present about
two-thirds of the total population could be served by public water supply
systems. About 47% of this population already has access to such systems.
However, only 20% of the people served are supplied through direct service
lines. About 60% of the urban population is served by public systems,
while only 20% of the rural population is provided with such services.
1.11     In addition to Greater Aden, public water supply systems exist in
nine towns along the coast and in the interior: Al Mukalla, Ghail Bawazir,
Shihir, Lahej, Gaar, Zinzibar, Dhala, Nisab and Saber. Most of the popula-
tion living in the inner limits of these towns has house connections; but
public supply through standpipes is very common in the outskirts where the
absence of sewerage makes private service lines undesirable. The quality
and safety of water served in Greater Aden and the towns are considered
acceptable. The same cannot be said of the rural areas where open wells
and contaminated ponds are still being used for supply. Villagers living
in remote areas must still spend substantial time to reach the nearest
watering point to fill a few goat skins of water. Local People's Councils
which report to the General Directorate for Local Administration (GDLA) are
responsible for providing basic services, including water supply to rural
areas. With PWC and the Ministry of Agriculture's assistance, the Local
People's Councils have been implementing a program of well construction in
the rural areas, which is progressively reducing the distances travelled to
fetch water. The UNDP has extended assistance for this program by contri-
buting to the installation of about 45 watering points in the Northern
desert region of the country.
Constraints to Sector Development
1.12     The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint to
an accelerated development of the sector. Lacking the necessary funds, the
Government has until now given priority to the development of agriculture
and transportation. Between 1968 and 1978 investments in potable water
supply amounted to only US$14.4 million (about $9 per capita) and were
mostly financed by Government funds. Moreover, PWC has not been able to
generate sufficient funds from its operations to finance its maintenance
and expansion works, mainly because of both low tariffs and the small per-
centage of population served outside Greater Aden. The Government had in
the past sought to charge low water rates due to the social character of
water supply services. This policy, however, is being changed. For
example, in Greater Aden the average tariff, which remained unchanged at
US$0.16/m3 since independence in 1967, was increased to US$0.38/m3
eliective January 1981.



- 5 -
1.13     Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity
of convenient water sources in PDRY, which are already extensively exploi-
ted for agriculture. This situation is further compounded by the remote
and unfavorable location of the urban centers from the major aquifers. As
examples, Greater Aden is located at more than 50 kms from the Wadi Bana
Aquifer, a possibLe supply source for the metropolitan area. A potential
water source for Al Mukalla is the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer, though situated
at more than 30 km from this city. Water from the Wadi Bana Aquifer and
the Wadi Hadramout Aquifer needs to be elevated more than 1,200 meters to
reach urban settlements in the high plateaux. The country's rugged topo-
graphy further poses severe difficulties in developing an expanded road
network which is needed for the transportation of materials, equipment and
technical staff, all of which are now concentrated in Aden.
1.14     A third constraint is the present population distribution in the
country. Most of the agglomerated population of 1.2 million lives in small
villages of not more than 5,000 people, for which adequate water sources
are difficult to find and high per capita investments are required. There
are only two agglomerations with sizeable populations: Greater Aden with
290,000 inhabitants and Al Mukalla with 55,000.
1.15     A fourth development issue in the sector relates to PWC's pres-
ently limited management capability. The PWC staff is young, inexperienced
and in insufficient number for the entire country. There are only five
engineers in PWC, and no graduate accountants or administrators. At the
same time, PWC is considered overstaffed with clerical personnel, having
more than fifteen employees per 1,000 connections, a ratio twice higher
than that of efficient water supply entities in developing countries. On
the other hand, PWC's routine maintenance of the systems cannot be carried
out efficiently, since skilled laborers are not available in the country.
These problems are being tackled under the Greater Aden Water Supply Proj-
ect which provides for: (i) technical assistance to PWC by three advisors
for a period of three years; and (ii) intensive training of its staff.
1.16     As a result of the above constraints, PWC has since its creation
experienced serious operational difficulties stemming from the bad condi-
tion of the systems, lack of financial resources and management experi-
ence. The country's overall difficult economic situation, and more
precisely the low living standard of the population and the unavailability
of foreign exchange needed for the purchase of spare parts, have further
worsened PWC's problems. This situation is particularly critical in
Greater Aden where the existing supply sources are drying up a'nd deteriora-
tion of the syste!m is reaching the point beyond which its rehabilitation
might be impossible 1/. A somewhat similar situation also prevails in Al
Mukalla, where the shortage of water, compounded by the population's lax
hygienic practices, has resulted in an extremely unhealthy, harmful
environment.
1/ This is being corrected under Credit 1038-YDR.



-6-
oector Development strategy and Program
1.17     Given the urgent need to save the fast deteriorating Aden system,
the Government had decided to give its first priority to Greater Aden where
the infrastructure to some extent already exists and where almost half of
the urban population resides. A Uo;39.2 million water supply project,
partially financed by an IDA Credit of Ub$13.2 million (Credit 1038-YDR),
is actually under implementation in the Greater Aden area. The Govern-
ment's second priority covers the improvement of water supply and
sanitation in Al Mukalla. Parallel to that, it will try to make a few
improvements in other towns and to pursue its program of well construction
in the rural areas, aiming at reducing the distances travelled to fetch
water. To meet the 1990 water demand, it is estimated that the Government
and PWC need to invest (in current prices) about Ub$45.4 million in water
supply works in Greater Aden, US$22.8 million in Al Mukalla and U6d8.0 mil-
lion in the remaining towns. These are indeed large investments for which
the Government is actively seeking the financial assistance of interna-
tional lenders.
1.18     Annex 1 gives a breakdown of the investments which have been made
in water supply works in various locations since the country's independence
in 1967. This Annex also shows the proposed investments in the years
1979-1983. The objective of these investments is to provide the main urban
centers and larger rural agglomerations with the water supply network
needed to meet water requirements by 1990. This investment plan translates
the Government's strong awareness of the necessity for providing safe water
supply within easy reach. While investments during the first 5-year plan
(1974-1978) amounted to Ub$11.2 million, those in the period 1979-1983 are
projected at US$48.4 million. The projects included in the investment
program (which was previously reviewed during the appraisal of the Greater
Aden Water supply Project, Credit 1038-YDR) are all needed and have
generally been prepared on the basis of appropriate design criteria.
1.19     Equally as important as the above investments, is the reorganiza-
tion of PWC, which must be carried out in parallel to the proposed expan-
sion of public water supply services. Under the Association financed
engineering project (Credit b-21 YDR), management consultants have prepared
a new organizational structure and revised administrative procedures that
PWC has started to implement. The Greater Aden Water supply Project
(Credit 1038-YDR) also provides for the stationing of management advisors
during three years to assist in the reorganization of PWC.
The Sewerage bubsector
1.20     Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes in PDRY are the
responsibility of the Local People's Councils whose activities are oriented
and coordinated by the General Directorate for Local Administration
(GDLA). 1/ Only five of the eight towns forming Greater Aden and small
1/ GDLA was created by Law No. 44 of 1978 to take over the functions and
responsibilities of the former Ministry of state for Local Administra-
tion.



areas of Al Mukalla are at present sewered. But sewerage charges are not
at present levied in these towns and areas. The remaining population in
the country uses septic tanks, dry pits and other methods of night soil
collection. The situation of liquid waste and excreta disposal is critical
in Al Mukalla ancd the Government is actively reviewing possible ways to
remedy it. In this regard, GDLA has financed and supervised various
studies of sewerage in the Governorates of Aden, Abyan and Hadramout.
These studies were carried out by consultants, since GDLA has no technical
capability.
1.21     Given the severely limited financial resources, provision of
adequate water supply should remain a first priority. As the country's
overall economy improves, the installation of more reliable waste disposal
systems in the agglomerations supplied with water should be planned pro-
gressively. Meanwhile, the Government should further expand the current
education health programs to teach the communities the proper ways to use
and maintain the existing systems. Wastewaters in Aden and Al Mukalla are
now discharged without treatment in the harbors. But in view of the
shortage of water resources, their possible reuse in agriculture in Aden is
being investigated in the studies included in the Wadi Tuban Agricultural
Project (Credit 768-YDR).
Public Health Situation
1.22     Present sanitary conditions in PDRY are alarming.  Schisto-
somiasis, enteritis and other diarrheal diseases appear to be major health
problems. About 65 percent of hospitalized patients are under treatment
for waterborne infectious and parasitic diseases, compared to about 30 per-
cent in countries of comparable GNP. For outpatients, enteritis and
diarrheal diseases represent the highest incidence (37/1000). Enteritis
and other diarrheal diseases are the first leading cause of infantile
death. The incidence of gastro-enteritis accounts for 40 percent of the
reported health problems in Hadramout Governorate (whose capital is Al
Mukalla) and 58 percent of the reported diarrheal cases in the country.
The main cause of death in infants of 1-4 years is gastro-enteritis.
1.23     The next major health concern is malnutrition which account for 35
percent of the reported health problems. It affects particularly pre-
school children and constitutes a major underlying cause of several other
diseases and mortality in this age group. Among the reported causes
of malnutrition are poor weaning practices, insufficient food intake, bad
sanitary conditions, intestinal parasites and high fertility in women.
Trachoma has also been reported to be prevalent in Hadramout Governorate.
Lice and scabies, as well as other parasites, are also common, occuring
mostly among the school population.
1.24     All these major health problems that actually predominate in the
country and in particular in Al Mukalla seem to stem from the lack of basic
services such as adequate supply of piped water, appropriate refuse and
excreta disposal system, proper drainage system and poor sanitary environ-
ment.  But above all, this situation has continued to exist or perhaps to
worsen, because of the population's poor health practices which need to be
changed through more education, an approach that the proposed project will
address (Chapter IV).



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
2.01     Al Mukalla with a current population of 55,000 is PDRY's second
largest city. Situated halfway along the coastline, it is after Aden the
country's most important commercial port on the Indian Ocean. Al Mukalla
was originally built on a narrow rocky strip known today as the Old
Mukalla. Beyond that flat strip stands a steep mountain which impedes any
further urban development. The rock outcrops in most of the area appear to
be extremely impervious, as evidenced by the pools of stagnant water and
sewage through the town and in the crossing wadi. The city's population is
growing at an estimated annual rate of 3X, a portion of which is stemming
from migration from other towns and rural areas.
2.02     Al Mukalla is made up of three conglomerate districts.  Originally
was the Old Mukalla District, the oldest residential area, which encompas-
ses the subdistricts of Al Salam, Al 6haheed Khalid and Al baiadine. Next,
to the west of Old Mukalla and separated from it by a wadi, is the Al Omal
District, slightly more recent than the old town. Finally, along the wadi
is the newly developed October District where more modern housing is being
built.
2.03     No more urban expansion can take place in the eastern part of the
city, past the harbor and a promontory beyond which the land is encased
between the coast and the mountain. However, to the southwest of
Al Mukalla and along the road from Aden, there exists much land where the
city of Al Mukalla can greatly expand. In particular, the village of
Fuwwah situated approximately 11 km to the west of Al Mukalla and 1.2 km
offshore has been retained by the Department of Town Planning as a future
urban expansion center for Al Mukalla. Fuwwah is not at present an urban
area and no public services are now provided in this village. The existing
housing is mostly rustic; but two modern buildings to house a hospital and
a public school are now under construction. A long-term urban development
plan for the Fuwwah area is now being prepared by the Department of Town
Planning.
Water Production Facilities
2.04     Al Mukalla is presently supplied with water from a well field
located on the Wadi Buwaysh alluvial deposits, some 15 km to the north-east
of the city. This well field and the adduction to Al Mukalla were put in
operation in 1965. Previous to that year, the city was supplied by the
Bagrain bpring which was abandoned because of the highly incrusting action
of its waters. The well field includes six boreholes which discharge di-
rectly into a head reservoir (Thila), from which a 12-in gravity pipeline
conveys water directly to the distribution network or to a distribution
reservoir (Bagrain).



- 9 -
2.05     The Wadi Buwaysh well field on average operates 18 hours a day
with a continuous discharge of about 60 1/s. However, it is estimated that
the discharge can be increased to 90 l/s, if two additional boreholes are
put in operation. such production should be sufficient to meet the pro-
jected peak demand of about 81 1/s in 1985. The 12-in transmission pipe-
line has enough c:apacity to convey the proposed production increase. The
water quality of Wadi Buwaysh is within acceptable limits.
2.06     In fact, a real constraint to increasing the present production
level is the shortage of electric supply in the area of the well field. At
present, two generator units which operate alternately supply the well
pumps with electricity. However, the national power authority, the Public
Corporation for Electric Power (PCEP), is planning to install a 30 KV over-
head distribution power line for the well field, which would allow the
pumps to operate 24 hours a day. This new energy supply will become avail-
able at the end of 1981. It will then become possible to increase the
pumping time, especially during the peak demand period to provide more pro-
duction and ensure greater reliability of the system. To further allow a
more rational exploitation of the production facilities, it will be neces-
sary to install a centralized remote control of the pumps, a time recorder
on each motor pump unit and a level recorder in the Thila Reservoir. The
execution of these works is envisaged under the proposed project (para
4.09).
2.07     At times, sand may be observed in the boreholes' discharge.  The
presence of sand lets presume that the well screens were not properly sized
and that the gravel packs around the screens are not working efficiently.
This may be due also to a lack of maintenance of the boreholes. As the
screens at the foot of the wells get clogged, higher velocity through the
screens takes place, establishing lower pressure in the gravel packs around
the screens and producing the dragging and passage of sand into the wells.
In fact, the last time the boreholes were cleaned was in 1976. The recent
acquisition by PWC of a high capacity compressor should enable it to clean
the boreholes in a very near future.
Conveyance Main
2.08     The 12-in transmission pipeline is made of asbestos-cement and is
protected against bursting by a surge tank and a pressure relief valve
mounted at its upper end.  This pipeline can theoretically deliver 100 l/s
at a relatively high pressure (12.5 bars) and is in good condition. Only
in few instances in the last 15 years has the supply been forced to shut
down for short periods of time to allow quick repairs of the pipes and
joints. Water from the Wadi Buwaysh Well Field used to be chlorinated
upstream of the Thila Reservoir; but the disinfection of the waters has
been stopped for some time, because of a breakdown of the chlorination
equipment. The renovation of the chlorination station is included in the
proposed project (para 4.10).



- 10 -
2.09     In addition to Al Mukalla, the pipeline provides water to the vil-
lages of Thila, Harshiyat, Rukayb, Jowl Masha and Buwaysh, whose total con-
sumption is estimated at about 4.5 1/s. There are several high points on
the pipeline route, which are not presently equipped with air valves. As a
result, the operation of the pipeline has been disrupted in the past by the
accumulation of air at these high points. The installation of air relief
valves on the pipeline is included in the proposed project (para 4.10).
Existing Distribution Network
2.10     The distribution network is made up of asbestos-cement pipes of
diameters varying from 4 inches to 12 inches, and of 3-inch galvanized
steel pipes. The latter have been laid in the lower part of the city,
close to the coast and are now badly corroded; they leak substantial
volumes of water and frequently burst. There are only 18 fire hydrants
which are irregularly distributed between the city's three districts and by
no means constitute an effective fire fighting system. Almost the entire
population is connected to the network. A high number of domestic meters
are inoperative, and many service lines are not at present metered. There-
fore, the volumes of water consumed cannot be calculated with accuracy.
But, it is estimated that roughly 40% of the production is now unaccounted
for. Some distribution pipes cross open sewage pools where high pollution
risks exist. It is quite urgent to relocate those sections of the network
to reduce the risk of supplying polluted water to the population.
2.11     At present, four distribution reservoirs with a total capacity of
2,000 m3 provide balancing flows during peak consumption in the city's
three districts. The Bagrain Reservoir, which is supplied by the 12-in
transmission pipeline covers the water needs in the October District. The
Bahush Reservoir supplies both the Al Omal and the Old Mukalla Districts.
In addition, two balancing reservoirs (bharj and Khalf) provide flow equi-
librium respectively in the Al Omal District and the Old Mukalla District.
The four reservoirs are made of steel plates and must be regularly cleaned
and painted. Their cathodic protection was renovated in 1976. Recently,
PWC has decided to replace the Bagrain Reservoir with a much larger one
(5,000 m3) whose steel plates have already been delivered and are soon to
be assembled. It is further proposed to build a new 2,000-m3 masonry
reservoir at Sharj (para 4.10), which would bring the total available
reserve to 8,500 m3 or 1.5 times the expected daily average consumption
in 1985, which is considered more than adequate.
Waste Disposal bystem
2.12     There is at present no comprehensive sanitation system tor the
disposal of liquid waste and excreta in Al Mukalla.  Some drains have been
installed in the recently built areas of the October District. In the part
of Al Omal District close to the wadi, there is a system of drains con-
nected to a series of short outfalls discharging near the shore and causing



- 11 -
visible pollution. In the inland part of the district, night soil collect-
ion is provided. some soak pits exist in the Old Mukalla District for
which night soil collection is also provided. New developments generally
are equipped with septic tanks which drain into nearby wadis. Otherwise,
the sewage finds its way to the wadis and shore where it forms lagoons and
soaks away slowly. The soak pits frequently overflow into the narrow
streets of Old Mukalla, creating considerable health hazards in this city.
2.13     The present alarming sanitary conditions in Al Mukalla stem partly
from the absence of an appropriate public sanitation system, but above all
from bad hygienic practices among the city's population. Severe public
health hazards exist throughout the city which is plagued by disagreeable
odors and flying insects. This problem is further aggravated by defective
plumbing and drainage systems in a majority of houses and as a consequence,
liquid waste spills over outside walls, creating more places for breeding
of pathogenic organisms.
2.14     Conscious of the necessity to improve sanitary conditions in Al
Mukalla, the Gcovernment in 1977 financed a feasibility study of sewerage in
this city. This study recommended the installation of a waterborne sewer
system, which would have consisted of a network of sewers and interceptors
conveying the wastewaters to a pumping station discharging into a sea out-
fall. The cost of this system was estimated at US$33.0 million (at 1976
prices). However, such an investment seems to be too high for a city of
the size of Al Mukalla and more importantly, unaffordable by the Government
and the potential users. With a view to reducing the required investment,
the Government would soon retain consultants to revise the study through
the selection of cheaper and more appropriate alternative sanitation
designs. Parallel to this revision, it is recommended to carry out a
health education program which could gradually make the population aware of
the need for better hygiene practices, in order to limit the spread of
communicable diseases (see para 4.13).
Public Health Services
2.15     Health services in PDRY are provided free by the Ministry of
Health. In addition to this ministry, four major national organizations
are to one degree or another involved in promoting public health in the
country. They are the People's Defense Committee, the Yemeni Women's
Federation, the Yemeni Youth Committee and the Yemeni btudents Union. A
Health Educaticin Unit was established in 1977 and integrated into the
Department of Preventive Medicine of the Ministry of Public Health. This
unit is headed by a professional nurse trained at the Institute of Health
and Manpower Development (IHMD) in Aden and also specialized in health edu-
cation in New Delhi. The operation of this unit is hampered by low budget
and lack of educational aids. For the Governorate of Hadramout, whose
capital is Al Mukalla, the budget allocation for health education in 1979
was YD 1,000 (Us$ 2,900).  The only equipment and materials available are a
broken projector and three old British films on malaria and bilharzia.



- 12 -
Obviously, there is a strong need for more funds, more staff and more edu-
cational materials, particularly in Arabic.
2.16     At present, Al Mukalla City is served by two hospitals, two
mother/child health centers and one general health center. These facili-
ties are staffed in total by only nine nurses and seven community mid-
wives. A permanent committee for health education in Al Mukalla was formed
in 1978 by the Director of the Executive Office and the Governor of
Hadramout. The committee is chaired by the head of the Department of
Preventive Medicine and includes representatives of the four national
organizations previously mentioned.
III. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Water Production and Consumption
3.01     Current available water production for Al Mukalla is estimated at
60 1/s, which is about 14% below the projected peak demand in 1981. This
production level was reached in 1980 after two new boreholes were put in
operation. But the same year, the maximum day demand exceeded the
available supply and that summer rationing was introduced in Al Mukalla.
Since that time, water services are cut at night in some areas of the dis-
tricts, in order to fill up the distribution reservoirs.
3.02     In 1980 total production averaged 1,550,000 m3, while water
sales reached 930,000 m , with the result that about 40% of the produc-
tion was unaccounted for, due to leaks in the network and faulty metering.
More than 95% of the city's population in that year was directly served
through 8,900 house connections (of which 6,800 were metered), with an
average per capita consumption of 47 1/day, which included public usage and
industrial consumption. But while the latter is projected to continue to
increase, domestic consumption is not expected to rise substantially in the
coming years. However, by 1987 after sewerage is provided in the city and
new production facilities become operational, domestic consumption should
grow to reach more normal levels.
3.03     The evolution of the population, service lines and water consump-
tion in the city during the last four years is shown in Annex 2. In spite
of the water shortage, the number of service lines increased by more than
40% in that period. Presently an average of 6 persons are served by a ser-
vice line. About a thousand people widely disseminated in the city are
still served by public standpipes and mosques. But it is expected that by
the end of 1981, the entire population would be served by private service
lines and that the remaining standpipes would be shut-down.
Population Forecast and Distribution
3.04     Estimated mid-year populations in the years 1977 through 2000 are
given in Annex 2 and illustrated in Annex 3. They are based on the only



- 13 -
census ever made in PDRY in 1973.  In that year, Al Mukalla population was
recorded to be 44,626. The Central Board of Statistics in PDRY estimates
that the overall population is growing at an average rate of 2.7 percent
per annum. But the growth rate in the Al Mukalla area must be higher, in
view of the current migration of population to this city from other towns
in the Governorate of Hadramout and beyond. This rate is estimated to have
averaged 3 percent during 1973-1978.  From that peak the growth of the
population is expected to slow down to 2.6 percent during the current
decade and to 2.1 percent during the next decade. On this basis, the
city's population is forecast to grow from 53,000 in 1979 to 71,000 in 1990.
3.05     The following gives the current and forecast population distribu-
tion and densities in the districts of Al Mukalla:
Year and             District of                     District of            Total
Growth      Old Mukalla Al Omal October  Old Mukalla Al Omal October   Pop.
Rate,  %    -…----Population--------- -----Density, inh/ha-- --   and
Ave. %
1973       20,010   15,398       9,218        400       308        51    44,626
%           1.0        3.0      6.8         -         -         -        3.0
1978       21,000   17,900    12,900          420       358        72    51,800
%           -        1.3         6.7        -         -         -        2.6
1990        21,000   20,900    28,900         420       418       161    70,800
%           -        -          4.5         -         -         -        2.1
2000        21,000   21,000    45,500          420      420       254    87,400
3.06     The population densities shown above were calculated on the basis
of a total area of 50 ha in the district of Old Mukalla, 50 ha in Al Omal
and 179 ha in October. Today the Old Mukalla District is fully developed
and no new urbanization can take place in this district. In addition, the
existing housing in this district is old and can hardly be extended or
renovated. Thus, it can be safely assumed that the saturation population
has been reached in the Old Mukalla District and that the current popula-
tion density of 420 inh/ha would remain unchanged in the future.
3.07     The same can be said for the Al Omal District whose housing and
urban infrastructure and those of the Old Mukalla District are very much
alike. At present, the population in Al Omal is less dense than in Old
Mukalla. The assumption is that the population in Al Omal would continue
to grow until it reaches a saturation level similar to that of Old Mukalla.
3.08     In contrast, major population increase would continue to occur in
the October Dist:rict where much land is still available for expanded urban-
ization. This district is of more recent construction, with more modern
housing and urban infrastructure. The population density, which is cur-
rently low compared to the other districts, is projected to more than



- 14 -
double by 1990. Thus, while during this decade no population growth is
forecast in the Old Mukalla District, and a moderate annual growth of 1.3
percent is projected in the Al Omal District, the population in October
District is expected to grow at the high rate of 6.7 percent during the
same period. Most of this growth would stem from population migration from
other towns of the Governorate.
Housing
3.09     Three classes of housing can be distinguished in Al Mukalla.  The
first class includes apartment buildings or individual houses in the
October District. The residences in this class are provided with complete
sanitary facilities. The second class corresponds to old apartment dwell-
ings in the districts of Old Mukalla and Al Omal. Sanitary facilities in
this class of housing are generally limited to rudimentary excreta outlets
and showers. Finally, a third class refers to temporary dwellings erected
in isolated areas, which are supplied with water at public standposts. A
few of those dwellings, which are totally deprived of sanitary facilities,
exist in Al Mukalla.
Forecast of Consumption
3.10     Because of the current water shortage in Al Mukalla, it has not
been possible to use the current water sales to estimate the per capita
consumption and future water requirements, since the present potential
demand largely exceeds the available supply. To estimate the required pro-
duction, an analysis of consumption in the three districts in 1980 (the
most recent year during which the average demand was assumed to have been
met) was carried out. An average per capita domestic and public consump-
tion of 42 liters/day was found.
3.11     In forecasting future consumption in Al Mukalla, it has been
assumed that the 1980 average per capita domestic and public consumption
would remain unchanged during the next six years. However, as already
mentioned in para 3.02, this consumption is considered inadequate and
should increase after proper sewerage and drainage are provided to the
population by 1987. Meanwhile, even under the present conditions, addi-
tional allocation should be made for industrial consumption, as some water-
consuming industries are being planned for the area.
3.12     Projections of water consumption up to 1990 are shown in Annex 2
and illustrated in Annex 3. It is forecast that by the end of 1981 the
entire population would be connected to the distribution network through
some 9,350 service lines. Water sales are projected to increase by about
38% in 1985, with the overall per capita consumption increasing from an
average of 47 1/day in 1981 to 57 1/day in 1985. Assuming that the
percentage of unaccounted for water would progressively decline to about
34% by 1985, the required average production in that year would be 63
1/sec. As the maximum day demand is calculated to be 30% higher than the
yearly average demand, the required production in 1985 should be about 81
1/sec. The maximum hour consumption is estimated to exceed the average
yearly demand by 70%.



- 1 5 -
3.13     As in the case of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project, PWC would
put its own staiff in charge of a leak detection program aiming at reducing
the unaccounted-for volumes of water produced. The methodology for
preparation and implementation of a similar program in Greater Aden was
prepared by consultants for PWC. The same methodology would be followed in
Al Mukalla.  The equipment and materials required in the program are
included in the proposed project (Chapter IV). In addition, master and
domestic meters would be provided and installed, in order to arrive at a
more precise determination of the volumes of water produced and consumed.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Project Genesis and Concept
4.01      In 1978 the Association made a credit (S-21 YDR) of US$1.2 million
to the Government of PDRY, to finance the preparation of water supply
master plans for the areas of Greater Aden, Al Mukalla and Laboos. The
Association was concerned with the evident water shortage in these large
urban areas and PDRY's lack of technical and financial resources to cope
with this situation. These master plans were prepared by a French
engineering consulting firm, SOGREAH, and have already led to the formula-
tion of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project, for which IDA in 1979 made a
credit of US$13.2 million (Credit 1038-YDR) to finance the first construc-
tion stage of new water production facilities and an expansion program of
the water distribution network in the Greater Aden metropolitan area.
4.02     As in the case of Greater Aden, a water supply master plan was
prepared for the Al Mukalla area. The main thrust of this plan is that the
existing water transmission and distribution system should be able, with
some minor changes and improvements, to cover the 1990 water demand in the
city, but that the available supply is totally insufficient to meet the
demands. To increase the supply to the city, it is proposed to raise pro-
duction at the existing Wadi Buwaysh Facilities (see para. 2.05) and to tap
a new water source, the Wadi Khirba Aquifer, located some 12 kms to the
west of Al MukaLla. Beyond 1990, a third source, the Wadi Huwairah
Aquifer, situated to the northeast of the city but much farther away from
it (about 33 kms), will have to be tapped in order to meet the demands.
4.03     These three sources are the only ones available for the supply of
Al Mukalla, within the farthest distance mentioned above, though their
total yield, under the present hydrogeological conditions, is not con-
sidered sufficient to meet the projected demands. But it is estimated that
the yield can be increased substantially by augmenting the infiltration
rates into the aquifers, through the erection of small dams in the wadi
beds, in order to provide a higher retention time of flood waters in the
beds. After the infiltration works are completed, the total yield of the
three aquifers is expected to pass from a present average of 100 I/s to 210
l/s, which shouLd be enough to meet the demands throughout the 1990 decade.



- 16 -
4.04     However, it should be noted that the resulting yield was estimated
on the basis of geophysical and hydrological studies and that additional
field investigations, like exploratory borings and pumping tests, must be
carried out before the final design and construction of the infiltration
facilities can be undertaken. Terms of reference for the carrying out of
the investigations and final design of the infiltration works are given in
Annex 4. These terms of reference were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. For the time being it is estimated that the envisaged
infiltration works would cost about US$6.0 million (at 1979 prices) or
almost half of the estimated cost of the first construction stage (1990) of
the master plan.
4.05     Concurrently with the design of new water production facilities,
the Government with the assistance of consultants will carry out a revised
study of feasible alternatives for sanitation in Al Mukalla, followed by
detailed design of the selected alternative (see para. 2.14). A revised
system might be based on lower design criteria and the combined use of
properly conceived soak pits, septic tanks and sewers, depending on local
conditions. Terms of reference for this study were given to the Government
which agreed to use them as the basis for the formulation of a revised
sanitation scheme for Al Mukalla. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development has made a grant to the Government for the financing of the
sanitation studies.
4.06     Emphasis has been made in para. 2.12 on the preponderantly poor
sanitary conditions in Al Mukalla. With this in mind and since the con-
struction of sewerage cannot be undertaken now, it is felt that the imple-
mentation of a water supply project which would result in an immediate,
substantial increase of the per capita consumption, is not at this time
desirable. For such an increase would in turn result in further degrada-
tion of the environment in Al Mukalla, since it would be quite impossible
to dispose of the additional supply properly. Thus, it is recommended to
defer the execution of the first stage water supply program as originally
contemplated, until the final design of the infiltration works is completed
(which at the same time would provide a better estimate of the expected
yield of the aquifers and of the cost of the works) and a sanitation
project has been defined and is ready for implementation. Nevertheless, in
view of the current water shortage and as some additional supply is needed
for new industries in the area, it is proposed to increase production at
least to the levels required to meet the demands up to 1985.
4.07     The project concept was first discussed with the Ministry of
Planning and PWC during a preparation mission in June 1980. At that time,
the intent was to limit the project scope to the engineering studies and
final design of the production facilities and sanitation system in Al
Mukalla. The project composition subsequently evolved to include a program
of immediate improvements in the existing water supply system and a public
health education component, as it was felt that these two elements would
pave the road for better implementation of long-term water supply and sani-
tation projects.  Finally, a mission composed of Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez
and Aziz Kassab appraised the project in November 1980. Mrs. Juliette



- 17 -
Sayegh, a public health consultant, reviewed hygiene practices in Al
Mukalla in relation to water supply use and waste disposal and formulated
the health education component.
Objectives of the Project
4.08 Thus, the basic objectives of the proposed project are to: (i)
improve and increase the Wadi Buwaysh Well Field's production to about 90
l/sec, in order to be able to meet the demands up to 1985; (ii) prepare the
detailed design of new water production facilities conceived to meet the
demands up to 1990; and (iii) carry out a health education program aiming
at improving the population's hygiene practices and at stimulating a more
rational and beneficial use of water supply and sanitation services. It is
expected that the proposed studies would result in the formulation of a
water supply project which could meet long-term water supply demands in Al
Mukalla and help alleviate the present sanitary conditions in this city.
Project Components
4.09     The project includes:
(i) the construction and equipping of two production wells at
Wadi Buwaysh;
(ii) improvement and expansion of the water distribution network;
(iii) the supply and installation of water meters;
(iv) the supply of operational equipment such as leak detectors,
hydraulic and workshop tools, cranes, laboratory apparatuses
and materials, radio communication system, remote control
system for boreholes, and vehicles;
(v)  hydrogeological studies, field investigations (exploratory
borings and pumping tests) and detailed design of
infiltration works;
(vi)  study of urban growth patterns in the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah area;
(vii) the formulation and implementation of a public health educa-
tion program; and
(viii) consulting services for construction supervision.
4.10     The proposed improvements and expansion of the water distribution
network are illustrated on Map No. 15566. They would basically comprise:
(a) the construction of a new 2,000-m3 reservoir (Sharj) for the Al Omal
District; (b) the supply and installation of 2.33 kms of 12-in pipes; 2 kms
of 8-in pipes; and 5 kms of 4-in pipes; (c) the supply and installation of
a booster pump to feed high elevation areas in the Old Mukalla District;
(d) the construction of a chlorination chamber on the main pipeline,



- 18 -
including the supply and installation of chlorination equipment; (e) the
construction of a warehouse; and (f) the supply and installation of
internal cathodic protection of the reservoirs (after providing them with a
new paint coat), of fire hydrants and air and blow-off valves on the
transmission pipeline.
4.11      The objective of the urban growth study, item (vi) of para. 4.09,
is to determine the size and distribution of future population in Al
Mukalla and the surrounding areas. As mentioned in para. 3.06, the satura-
tion population has already been reached in the Old Mukalla District, and
is expected to be reached in Al Omal in the early nineties. Meanwhile, the
population in October District would continue to grow rapidly and quite
possibly would spill over the adjacent areas, in particular Fuwwah, some 11
kms to the west. As of now, the long-term water supply master plan calls
for the collection and use of the Khirba water resources for Al Mukalla.
But the Khirba Aquifer is a logical water source for Fuwwah, since it is
the closest to this area.  In addition, a transmission pipeline from Khirba
to Al Mukalla must necessarily cross Fuwwah and thus might first supply
this village.
4.12      So if Fuwwah is to become urbanized rapidly, the Khirba resources
might have to be reserved for it and the existing water supply master plan
for Al Mukalla would have to be modified accordingly. Further it is the
Government's intent to develop Fuwwah into a residential area for Al
Mukalla, which would accelerate urbanization in this village. The proposed
study should forecast the balance between development in Al Mukalla
(October District) and in Fuwwah, and the urbanization pace in Fuwwah. The
study should also indicate when Fuwwah should be provided with basic urban
services, including public water supply. Terms of reference for this study
are outlined in Annex 5; they were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations.
4.13     The proposed health education program is geared towards changing
the knowledge, attitude, practices and level of readiness of the Al Mukalla
population, in relation to the use of water supply and the elimination of
waste, to make the population recognize the relationship between waterborne
and communicable diseases, and unsafe sanitary practices. The program will
be addressed to both adults and children. Its first objective would be to
strengthen the existing health education unit mentioned in para. 2.15,
through more appropriate allocation of staff, funds, materials and equip-
ment. In addition, efforts would be made to strengthen the training pro-
gram of the Institute of Health and Manpower Development (IHMD) by revising
the curricula related to sanitation, behavioural sciences and field experi-
ences. Under the proposed program, greater involvement of the four exist-
ing national organizations (the People's Defense Committee, the Yemeni
Women's Federation, the Yemeni Youth Committee and the Yemeni Students
Union), in public health promotion, would be sought. The health education
unit would try to reach adults through more appropriate radio and tele-
vision educational programs on health practices. The current health educa-
tion program in schools would be reinforced by revising the curricula and



- 19 -
educational approaches on health and sanitary awareness to pre-school
children and school children, as well as the revision of the training of
teachers.
4.14      To reach the above objectives, it is proposed to provide in-
service training to the health education unit and IHMD. It is further
recommended to supply audio-visual aids that will be used to support health
education activities, and to establish a small library with Arabic refer-
ences. The proposed supply would include projectors, movie cameras, tape
and video recorders, office equipment and vehicles. Technical assistance
also would be given to local authorities in Al Mukalla to help develop a
coordinated mechanism for the supervision and control of hygienic and
sanitary practices relevant to the processing and handling of food, water,
wastes and garbages. Terms of reference for the in-service training and
technical assistance are given in Annex 6; they were discussed and agreed
upon during negotiations.
4.15      The health education program will be implemented by the Department
of Preventive Medicine of the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the
existing permanent committee of health education in the office of the
Governor of Hadramout. A public health consultant will be called upon to
assist in the revision of curricula and the planning of educational pro-
grams and aids, as well as in the in-service training of health education
trainers and health inspectors. It is further expected that two staff
would be sent abroad for one year to be trained in health education,
behavioural practices, curriculum development, management and evaluation of
relevant educational aids. Short-term training would be provided to other
staff in PDRY for a period of about six months.
Cost Estimates
4.16      The estimated total cost of the project is YD 1.5 million (US$4.4
million), with a foreign exchange component of YD 1.2 million (US$3.5
million) or about 80 percent of the total cost. Detailed cost estimates
are shown in Annex 7. Scheduled annual project investments are given in
Annex 8. A summary of the cost estimates follows:



- 20 -
YD Thousands              US$ Thousands
Item                Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total             %
Two Production Wells         10       95      105       29      276      305        8.2
Improvement and Expan-
sion of the Distribution
Network                   142      374      516      412   1,085   1,497        40.2
Supply of Water Meters        -       16       16        -       46       46        1.2
Supply of Operational
Equipment                   3       74       77        9      215     224        6.0
Sub-Total                 155      559      714     450   1,622   2,072         55.6
Groundwater Recharge
Study                       5      121      126       15     350      365        9.8
Groundwater Exploration    28        107      135       80      311      391       10.5
Study of Urban Growth         6       23       29       17       67       84        2.3
Health Education Program   21         56       77       62      162      224        6.0
Sub-Total                 215      866   1,081       624   2,512   3,136        84.2
Physical Contingencies       32      130      162       93      376      469       12.6
Construction Supervision   10         31       41       29       90      119        3.2
Total Cost
(End 1980 Prices)         257   1,027   1,284       746   2,978   3,724        100.0
Price Escalation             53      180      233      154      522     676        18.2
TOTAL COST
(Current Prices)          310   1,207   1,517       900   3,500   4,400        118.2
4.17     The cost estimates are based on price levels prevailing in November
1980 and detailed bills of quantities of the proposed improvement works and
supply of materials and equipment. Nevertheless, a 15 percent allowance for
physical contingencies has been added to the base costs. Construction
supervision of the works is projected to account for about 6 percent of the
base costs of the proposed works (excluding the studies). To provide for
price escalation during the project execution, both local and foreign
expenditures are projected to increase annually by 9 percent in 1981, 8.5
percent in 1982 and 7.5 percent in 1983 and 1984. Price escalation is
expected to amount to about 18 percent of the base costs plus the physical
contingencies and construction supervision. The base costs include no pro-
vision for customs duties which are not levied on imported materials and
equipment for development projects such as the proposed project.



- 21 -
4.18      The project provides for an estimated 122 man-months of consultant
services for the hydrogeological studies, field investigations and final
design of the infiltration works, the study of urban growth patterns in the Al
Mukalla area, the health education program and construction supervision of the
proposed works. The estimated cost of these services, including salaries,
costs, fees, international travel and subsistence, is Ubkl.0 million or an
average of U6$8,200 per man-month.
Project Execution
4.19      The proposed works and studies would be executed during the years
1982 through 1984. PWC would be responsible for the execution of the works
and the hydrogeological studies including field investigations. The Ministry
of Construction would be responsible for the carrying out of the urban growth
patterns studies. The health education program would be executed by the
Department of Preventive Medicine of the Ministry of Health. The staff of the
proposed executing agencies have limited experience in construction and
studies and consequently need the assistance of qualified experts and
engineering consultants to be retained under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, not later than March 31, 1982. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
4.20     A bar chart for the project execution is illustrated in Annex 9.  Bid
documents for the works have already been prepared by the consultants under
the engineering credit 6-21 YDR and bidding is expected to start in early
1982. During negotiations the implementation schedule was discussed and
agreed upon for the project. The executing agencies also agreed to review and
update it regularly, as part of their quarterly progress reports to the
Association. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.
Project Financing
4.21     An IDA credit of Ub$3.5 million to finance the foreign exchange cost
of the project is proposed. The balance of US4o0.9 million representing the
local cost of the project would be provided by the Government. It is esti-
mated that of the Government funds, YD 10,200 (Ub$30,000) would be required in
1982; YD 153,400 (Us$445,000) in 1983; YD 124,000 (US$360,000) in 1986; and YD
22,400 (Us$65,000) in 1985. Moreover, if the project is to be completed at a
greater cost than estimated, the Government would be expected to meet the
overruns. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will
promptly provide funds needed for the project, including those necessary to
meet any cost overruns.
4.22     Water shortage in Al Mukalla has been chronic during the last two
years. The Government has been alarmed at this situation and in an effort to
improve quickly the supply to the city has gone ahead with the construction
and equipping of the two wells at Wadi Buwaysh. Likewise, the Government
intends to start immediately the study of urban growth in the Al Mukalla-
Fuwwah area, without awaiting the signing of the Credit Agreement, as the
sizing of the Wadi Khirba-Al Mukalla transmission pipeline and the future use
of the Wadi Khirba water resources would depend on the conclusions of this



- 22 -
study. The foreign expenditures incurred for construction of the wells and
estimated foreign expenditures for the urban growth study are calculated to
amount to US$220,000. It is proposed that expenditures not exceeding this
amount, made after November 30, 1980 for the above-mentioned project items and
prior to the date of the signing of the Credit Agreement, be financed
retroactively.
Onlending Arrangements
4.23     The proposed credit would be made to the Government which would
onlend US$3.2 million (YD 1.1 million) to PWC, at the current Bank interest
rate 1/ of 9.6% for a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace, to finance
the foreign exchange cost of the project items to be executed by PWC. The
local cost of these items, totalling YD 273,000 (US$792,000), would be
financed by a Government contribution which would be passed to PWC as equity.
In addition, the Government would bear the cost of the remaining project items
and the foreign exchange risk on the credit. About US$226,000 of the credit
proceeds would be used by the Department of Preventive Medicine to finance the
health education program and the balance of US$87,000 by the Ministry of
Construction for the study of urban growth patterns in the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah
area. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
PWC, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Procurement
4.24     As in the case of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project (Credit
1038-YDR), the contract for construction of the wells was given to a
Government agency, the Irrigation Division of the Ministry of Agriculture,
which quoted a price twice lower than that of international drillers. This
contract is considered eligible for financing in view of its very competitive
amount. Furthermore, for standardization purposes, the Government has
acquired for the two wells pumps and motor drives of the same brand and
characteristics of the existing six pumping units. The pumps and motor drives
have been acquired at a reasonable price which can be reimbursed with the
Credit proceeds.
4.25     Except for these two contracts and the purchase of materials and
equipment for the improvement program, the health education program and the
leak detection program, all other contracts would be awarded following
international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank Group's Guide-
lines for Procurement. The materials and equipment referred to above and
including control valves, cathodic protection elements, electric transformers
and panels, vehicles and audio-visual aids, estimated to cost less than
US$18,000 each and aggregating to not more than US$500,000, would be procured
through quotations from at least four suppliers in member countries of the
Bank and Switzerland.
1/ The current interest rate for long-term loans in PDRY for development
projects is 3 percent.



- 23 -
4.26     All materials and equipment for the project would be imported.  All
civil works such as the construction of the new Sharj Reservoir and the
chlorination chamber, the laying of pipes, would be grouped into a single con-
tract. It is probable that this contract may be won by a local entrepreneur.
Disbursement
4.27     The following sets out the allocation of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit according to the expected types of expenditures:
Total  Investments    Credit  Allocation         % of
Type of Expenditures         YD 1,000  US$1,000    YD 1,000  US$1,000         Total
Foreign Purchases               444       1,288        444       1,288         100.0
Civil Works                     658       1,908        421       1,220          63.9
Local Purchases                  29          84           -           -          -
Consulting Services:
Foreign Expenses             342        992         342         992         100.0
Local Expenses                44         128          -           -           -
TOTAL EXPENDITURE.S           1,517       4,400       1,207      3,500          79.6
4.28     The proposed credit would be disbursed against:  (i) the full CIF
cost of all direct imports; (ii) 64 percent of total expenditures for civil
works construction; and (iii) foreign expenditures for consulting services.
Overall, the IDA credit would cover 79.6 percent of the estimated project
cost. Estimated quarterly disbursements of the credit and Government funds
are shown in Annex 10. The closing date of the credit would be December 31,
1985.
V. BENEFICIARY
Background
5.01     The principal beneficiary of the proposed credit would be the Public
Water Corporation (PWC), created in 1970 by Public Law No. 19 to replace the
Aden Water Authority. The latter was responsible during the British protec-
torate for providing public water supply services which existed only in
Greater Aden and Al Mukalla. PWC is owned by the Government and operates
under the tutelage of the Prime Minister's Office. But it has the status of
an autonomous public enterprise and functions as a commercial undertaking. In



- 24 -
addition to Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, PWC provides water supply services in
eight other locations which contribute less than 10 percent of its revenues.
PWC was the executing agency of the Water Supply Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project (Credit S-21 YDR) and is the beneficiary of a credit of
US$13.2 million (Credit 1038-YDR) made in 1980 to finance a water supply
expansion program in Greater Aden.
Past Performance
5.02     PWC has successfully implemented the Water Supply Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project. All the studies included in this project have
been completed and have already resulted in the formulation of a construction
project in the Greater Aden area. As part of the engineering project, a
review of PWC's administrative and financial policies was undertaken and new
administrative procedural guidelines have been proposed to strengthen the
Corporation's management. PWC's management has started to implement these
recommendations and has since the beginning of 1981 increased the tariffs in
Greater Aden, with a view to making the Corporation financially viable. The
implementation of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project has just started and
it is too early to pass judgment on PWC's performance. But so far, the proj-
ect execution has been progressing well, though with a 6-month lag in the
appraisal schedule, due to delays in appointing consultants for construction
supervision.
Management and Organization
5.03     A Board of eight members, chaired by the General Manager, manages
PWC's operations. Six members of the Board are employees of PWC, representing
various activities and organizations inside the company. They are, in addi-
tion to the General Manager, the Planning Director, the Chief Engineer, the
Chief Accountant, the Secretary of the Union and the representative of the
Party's base organization in PWC. The other two members are representatives
of the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance. The Board exercises
collective management of the company and all important decisions covering
staff appointments and promotions, contract awards, approval of operational
budgets and investment programs, must be discussed and approved by it. Some
of its members, particularly the political appointees such as the representa-
tives of the Party and the Union, are very influential and no decision can be
taken by the Board without their specific approval. As a result of this
situation, important technical and administrative decisions are very often
delayed, because other members have to spend much time explaining to these
representatives the logics of the Board's proposals.
5.04     The Government exercises much control over the Corporation's activi-
ties. In addition to the appointment of the General Manager and other depart-
mental chiefs, the Government reviews and approves PWC's operational budgets,
investment programs, tariff levels and borrowings. Further, any contract
award exceeding YD 9,000 (US$26,100) must be approved by the Government's
Higher Tender Board Committee, which is made up of the Minister of Planning,
the Minister of Construction and the Minister of Finance. The General Manager
is responsible for the day-to-day operations. But as pointed out earlier, the



- 25 -
General Manager's authority is limited and he must on most occasions convoke
the Board to seelk guidance and obtain decision on most of the managerial
problems.
5.05     Under the IDA financed Water Supply Engineering Project, a study of
the organization needed for PWC was carried out by consultants who proposed
the organization structure shown in Annex 11. PWC's management has approved
this structure which is being implemented gradually, as staff for the proposed
management positions are becoming available. New administrative procedural
guidelines, that have been established by the management consultants, are also
being implemented by PWC's management.
Staffing
5.06     At the time of appraisal, PWC had a total of 960 employees, of whom
700 were in Greater Aden and the remainder in the provincial branches. This
corresponds to a ratio of about 16 employees per 1,000 connections and is con-
sidered too high, compared to the ratio of 8 normally found in well-operated
utilities. PWC's management concurs with this judgment and intends to reduce
by attrition the number of staff. Salaries offered by PWC are similar to
those of other corporations, government offices and industries and should not
constitute a constraint for hiring competent staff, when available.
5.07     Like otlher corporations in PDRY, PWC suffers from a shortage of
qualified experienced staff. There are only five young graduate civil
engineers in the technical department and no graduates in the administrative
and finance departments. The Government and PWC have recognized this staff
constraint and in accord with the Association have decided to employ three
advisers to assist PWC in the day-to-day management of the corporation. Under
the terms of the Project Agreement 1038-YDR, the advisers should be appointed
by July 31, 1981. PWC is actively looking for suitable candidates to meet the
deadline. In the course of their management assistance to PWC, the advisors
are expected to determine how the General Manager's authority can be
strengthened as regards his relations with the Board and the day-to-day
operations of the corporation.
5.08     The Greater Aden Water Supply Project also contains a staff training
program whose implementation would soon start and which would aim at improving
the knowledge, capability and effectiveness of PWC's personnel. A detailed
plan for the execution of the program is now being prepared by PWC and should
be submfitted for the Association's approval by June 30, 1981.
Billing and Collection
5.09     PWC bills its customers on a rotating basis every two months for
water consumed and a fixed charge for meter rental. Billing is processed on
an electronic accounting machine, and is about three months late, a problem
that will be tackled by the financial advisor referred to in para. 5.07.
Collection from private customers and government agencies is slow. As of
June 30, 1980, accounts receivable from both classes of consumers stood at
seven months of water sales. To lower receivables from private customers, PWC



- 26 -
has promised to strengthen its collection procedures by disconnecting unpaid
services more rapidly. With regard to government agencies, the Development
Credit Agreement 1038-YDR provides that the Government will take all necessary
steps to ensure that as of January 1, 1982, these agencies' receivables will
not exceed 90 days of billing.
Accounting Practices and Procedures
5.10     PWC uses an accruals accounting system which shows considerable weak-
nesses. As examples, a large part of investment financed by the Government
under past development plans is not recorded in the Corporation's books. A
physical inventory control is supposedly carried out at the end of each year,
but the recorded levels of the inventories are not reliable, in view of the
disorganized conditions of the stores. The Al Mukalla branch maintains its
own accounts and processes all its financial transactions. However, incor-
poration of these accounts in the company's consolidated statements is made
with long delays. The 1978 and 1979 financial accounts of PWC have recently
been finalized and the audit report on these accounts is expected to reach the
Association by June 30, 1981.
5.11     Undoubtedly, the present accounting practices need to be redressed
without delay, so that a clearer picture of the corporation's financial situa-
tion can be obtained. The expectation is that such redress would be made
possible under the guidance of the financial advisor referred to in para.
5.07. The rationalization of PWC's accounting procedures is a major task that
will be addressed in the assistance program of the financial advisor, who will
also set up an internal audit section.
5.12     The existing agreement between the Association and PWC (1038-YDR)
provides for the audit by the Central Board of Audit (a btate audit agency) of
PWC's annual financial statements and the submission to the Association of
this Board's report within six months after the end of each fiscal year. As
an exception the audit report on the 1980 accounts will be made available by
July 31, 1981. But the Association was reassured by PWC's management that the
1981 report and subsequent ones will be submitted to the Association within
the time limit specified in the Project Agreement.
5.13     PWC at present carries insurance covering only motor vehicles.
Management is reviewing other insurance needs, such as protection against fire
damages and third party liability, and is expected to arrange appropriate
insurance coverage in accordance with good public utility practice, as stipu-
lated in the Project Agreement 1038-YDR. All civil works contracts for the
project will be insured by the National Insurance Company against accidents,
civil liability, fire and property damages; this company is the only legal
insurer in PDRY. Foreign supplies for the project will be insured by outside
private companies against loss and damage in shipment.
Taxes
5.14     Under existing legislation, PWC's net income is taxed at a rate of
37.5 percent. Law No. 11-1973 also specifies how PWC's net profits after tax
should be allocated between the government treasury (75 percent) and the
corporation's capital investments (25 percent).



- 27 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYbIb
Past and Present: Financial Position
6.01     PWC's unaudited consolidated income statements, cash flow statements
and balance sheejts for the years 1978 through 1980, together with projections
for 1981 through 1987, are shown in Annexes 12-14. The company's financial
position during the last three years has not been good. PWC recorded in 1978
a deficit of about Us,678,600, which almost tripled in 1980. Meanwhile, the
operating ratio (operating expenses including depreciation as a percentage of
total revenues) increased to 167 percent in 1980 from 129 percent in 1978.
Last year, PWC operations in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, which accounted for
90 percent of the total revenues, showed a cash surplus which nevertheless was
not enough to cover the net loss of the remaining branches. Operating results
of the Al Mukalla Branch in 1980 can be summarized as follows:
Thousands
YD              US$ 1!
Revenues                             141             409
Expenses                             115             334
Income before Depreciation            26              75
Depreciation                          19              55
Net Income                             7               20
1/  Based on a rate of exchange of YD 1 = US$2.9.
Revenues
6.02     PWC derives its main revenues from water sales.  In addition, PWC
draws small revenues from meter rental and the execution of new service
lines. New customers also make on average a deposit of YD 2.50 (U6$7.25) per
service line to cover at least two months of service.
6.03     Until last year, a single rate of YD 0.055/m3 (US40.16/m3) was
applied to all sales in Greater Aden, irrespective of the type of usage,
volume used and class of customers. To redress the bad financial situation
that PWC had cornfronted during the last three years, and to provide.a better
distribution of the charges between different classes of customers, as part of
the Greater Ader, Water supply Project (Credit 1038-YDR), a new rate schedule
and increased tariffs were implemented in Greater Aden in January 1981. The
new rate structure contains five classes of customers and two usage blocks



- 28 -
within the domestic class.  The following tariffs are applied to the different
classes of customers;
Usage block          Rate
Customer Class                         mn*/month      YD/m3 (Ub$/mJ)
Domestic                                First 15 m3       0.066 (0.19)
Any excess        0.088 (0.26)
Industrial                             Any volume         0.143 (0.41)
Public                                  Any volume        0.176 (0.51)
Commercial and bhipping                Any volume         0.198 (0.57)
Residential (Embassies,
International Organizations)         Any volume         0.220 (0.64)
6.04     To low-income consumers in Greater Aden whose monthly water usage
does not generally exceed 15 m3, the financial impact of the rate
increase has been minimal; their water bills have been raised by about 20
percent. On the other hand, much higher tariffs are now charged to
industrial, public and commercial consumers whose water bills have in some
instances more than tripled. But they are the largest consumers and the
expectation is that the increased tariffs would induce them to restrict
their water usage. This in turn would help to defer investments in new
water works. The new rate schedule is expected to result in an average
tariff of YD 0.130/m3 (US$0.38/m3) in Greater Aden.
6.05     Rate schedules distinguishing classes of consumption and customers
have been for sometime in application in the provincial towns, long before
their introduction in Aden in 1981. In spite of the recent tariff increase
in Aden, the average rates in some provincial towns continue to be higher
than in Aden.  They are for instance YD 0.142/m3 (US$0.41/m3) in Al
Mukalla and YD 0.220/m3 (Ub$0.64/m3) in Ghail Bawazir; the tariffs in
Al Mukalla were last increased in 1979 and are charged according to the
following schedule:
Rate
Customer Class                                          YD/mi (US$/mi)
Domestic                                                  0.110      (0.32)
Public, Commercial                                        0.330      (0.96)
Construction                                              0.550      (1.60)
The quality of the services currently provided by PW.C in the provincial towns
is poor and in view of the low living standards of their populations, it would
be unreasonable for PWC to request, at this stage, any further tariff increase
in these towns.



- 29 -
6.06     Under the existing agreement for the Greater Aden Water bupply
Project, PWC is required, on a consolidated basis, and through charges for its
services, to secure revenues sufficient to cover not less than its operating
and maintenance expenses, including depreciation, interest and (to the extent
not covered by depreciation) amortization of its debt. This covenant has been
maintained and restated in the draft agreement for the proposed project.
The consolidated average tariff of the PWC's system is expected to be
YD 0.125/m3 (Ub$0.36/m3), a level which should be sufficient to achieve
the required performance through the end of 1984.
6.07     In 1985, PWC will start servicing the debts incurred for the Greater
Aden Project and consequently will need to increase anew its consolidated
average tariff. This could be accom lished by increasing only the average
tariff in Greater Aden to YD 0.178/m3 (Us$0.52/m3), as the debt was con-
tracted to finance investments in Greater Aden. Or proportional increases
could take place everywhere to bring the consolidated average tariff to
YD 0.167/m3 (US$0.48/m3).
Financing of PWC's Investment Program
6.08     The following sets out PWC's overall financing plan during the
disbursement period of the proposed credit (1981-1985):
Million
YD           US$i/           %
Application of Funds
Proposed Project                         1.4            4.1           6.6
Greater Aden Project                    13.1          38.0           61.8
Other Investments                        5.5           15.9          25.9
Interest during construction             1.2           3.5            5.7
Total Application                    21.2          61.5         100.0
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                 2.4           7.0           11.5
Decrease in Working Capital              1.7           4.9            8.0
Less Debt bervice                       (0.4)          (1.2)         (2.1)
Net Cash Generation                      3.7          10.7           17.4
Proposed IDA Credit                      1.1            3.2           5.2
Existing IDA Credit 1038-YDR             4.1           12.0          19.5
Existing Long-term Loans                 8.7          25.2           41.0
Total B!orrowing                      13.9          40.4           65.7
Governmtent Contribution               3.6          10.4           16.9
Total bources                         21.2          61.5         100.0
1/  Based on a constant rate of exchange of YD 1 = USZ2.9.



- 30 -
6.09     The contemplated requirements include YD 5.5 million (Us$15.9 mil-
lion) of investments in water supply works in other locations, which are shown
in Annex 1. In addition, the Government would finance interest totalling YD
1.2 million (US$3.5 million) on its lending to PWC of the IDA Credits and
other external loans for the Greater Aden Project. Overall, the Government
would finance about 17 percent of PWC's investments (excluding capitalized
interests) through an equity contribution of YD 3.6 million (Ub$10.4 million),
which is essential to help PWC strengthen its capital structure.
Future Financial Performance
6.10     PWC's forecast financial statements in the years 1981 through 1987
are shown in Annexes 12-14. The assumptions made in preparing these state-
ments are outlined in Annex 15.  The future financial performance of PWC may
be conveniently analyzed for two periods: the first one ending in 1984, with
the completion of the Greater Aden Project and the proposed project; and the
second one beginning in 1985 when PWC starts servicing the debts incurred for
the Greater Aden Project. With the current tariffs, PWC should be able to
collect, during the first period, enough revenues to cover its consolidated
operating expenses, including depreciation, and would thus meet existing
financial covenants. From an operating deficit in 1980, it is expected to
post in 1981 a return of about 7 percent on its net fixed assets in opera-
tion. Its operating ratio is projected to decrease from 167 percent in 1980
to about 84 percent in 1981 and stay at this level during the next four years.
6.11      In 1985 PWC will start servicing its debts and consequently will need
to increase its tariffs as discussed in para. 6.07. Thereupon, its operating
ratio would continue to improve to stand around 75 percent by 1986. The
debt/equity would fluctuate around 48:52 in 1985/86. The debt service ratio
would drop from 2.3 in 1985 to 1.1 in 1986, which still would be adequate.
With respect to the corporation's operations in Al Mukalla, they should con-
tinue to remain self-supporting, provided that wage increases can be kept
moderate. However, by the time PWC starts to implement a new project in Al
Mukalla in 1985 and later to service the debt contracted for the proposed
project, the tariffs in Al Mukalla should be increased to cover higher operat-
ing costs in this city and to service the related debt.
6.12     Under the existing agreement, PWC is committed not to incur any
long-term debt (except for the project covered by the agreement) without the
Association's concurrence, unless its net revenues at the time of incurrence
of the debt, before depreciation and interest, are at least 1.2 times the
maximum future annual debt service on the proposed debt and existing debts.
This commitment has been maintained under the proposed project.
Monitoring System
6.13     Annex 16 shows the indicators which would be monitored during the
project execution to measure the achievement of the technical and financial
goals set for PWC. This Annex also gives the values forecast for these



- 31 -
indicators in the years 1981 through 1987. These values were discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations. Agreement was also reached with PWC that it
will (i) report the evolution of the indicators to the Association on a
quarterly basis during the project execution, and on an annual basis for five
years after project completion; and (ii) carry out any reasonable remedial
action suggested by the Association, aiming at meeting the target values of
the indicators.
6ol4     At negoliations, assurances were also securea that PWC, within six
months following the closing date of the credit, will prepare and submit to
the Association a completion report on the execution and initial operation of
the project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance and fulfillment by the Government, the Association and PWC of
their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment, and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Association's Credit.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYbIS
Objectives of the Proposed Investments
7.01     The need for improving water supply services and sanitary conditions
in Al Mukalla seems obvious. The current water supply is about 15 percent
short of present demand which is already constrained by lack of adequate
sewerage and drainage. The prevailing unhealthy environment in Al Mukalla and
the resulting high incidence of waterborne infectious diseases have been
exposed at length in this report. There is no doubt that sanitary conditions
in this city need to be improved substantially.
7.02     The proposed works would increase water production to the level
required to elim:inate the current supply deficit and to meet industrial water
needs up to 1985. At the same time, the water distribution network would be
expanded to allow residents in the most deprived areas to connect their dwell-
ings to the system. PWC's policy is to encourage the installation of indivi-
dual service lines by subsidizing part of their cost.
7.03     The proposed studies are all needed and urgent.  They are required
to enable PWC to define the composition and cost of the next water supply
project for Al Mukalla and to help the Government plan urban growth in the
Al Mukalla-Fuwwah conurbation and the opportune installation of public
services in this area.
7.04     The merits of the proposed health education are evident.  It seems
obvious that the existing health problems in Al Mukalla could be reduced by
raising the popuLation's awareness of beneficial effects of adequate health
behaviour and good sanitary practices. This in turn should result in
changing the people's attitudes and life style and setting out a healthier
environment.



- 32 -
Economic Justification
7.05     The prevailing justification for the proposed project is the need to
provide Al Mukalla with a more decent sanitary infrastructure. The many
health and environment benefits that the proposed project would generate, such
as reduced expenses for health care and workers' higher productivity, should
produce a high economic return on the proposed investments. However, those
kinds of benefits are difficult to quantify and a rate of return cannot be
calculated. In addition, as these external benefits escape traditional
economic measure, the willingness to pay for adequate water supply and sanita-
tion services and hence the consumer's surplus becomes difficult to assess.
7.06     In the event that the projected revenues from increased water sales
as a result of the proposed project and sales maintainted by halting the
system's deterioration, which otherwise would be lost, both based on the
present average tariff, are taken as a minimum measure of economic benefits of
the corresponding investments, the internal rate of return would be about 10
percent. In fact, the present tariff equals the long-run average incremental
cost of providing water supply services in Al Mukalla, discounted at a rate of
10 percent, which is considered acceptable. This demonstrates that the pro-
posed allocation of capital expenditures is justified, besides the social
necessity for the project. It is estimated that the lowest income customers
spend not more than 3 percent of their income for water supply services, well
below the usually accepted norm of 5 percent.
7.07     A sensitivity analysis of the return shows that it is moderately
sensitive to increases in the capital investment. For a 10 percent increase
in the capital costs, the rate of return would decrease by about one percent.
Under the most pessimistic conditions in which the investment costs would
increase by about 20 percent, the rate of return would be about 8 percent,
which is still acceptable considering the social character of the project.
Variations in the water sales have not been considered, since it is certain
that the increased production will be readily sold. Nor were variations in
the operating and maintenance expenses taken into account, since any increase
in these expenses should be offset by a proportional increase of the tariffs.
Environmental Impact of the Project
7.08     As mentioned in para. 1.24, the shortage of potable water and the
unavailability of adequate sanitation systems have created deplorable sanitary
conditions in PDRY. The Government is striving hard to improve environmental
conditions by equipping the country's major urban agglomerations with safe
water supply and waste disposal systems. The proposed project would help the
Government meet this objective in Al Mukalla, the nation's second largest
city. Public water supply would be expanded in the lowest-income areas of the
city. As a result, sanitary conditions in these areas would substantially
improve. Later on, the availability of an effective waste disposal system
would further enhance living conditions in this city. These measures may be
expected to result in improved productivity stemming from better environment
and public health.



- 33 -
Institution Building
7.09     The first steps in reorganizing and strengthening PWC were taken with
the Greater Aden Water Supply Project which included management assistance to
PWC and training of its staff. That project also took a first step towards
the establishment of PWC's financial viability by implementing tariffs which
reflect the real cost of providing water supply services in the country. The
proposed project is conceived to pursue further the above objective which is
to establish PWC as an effective national authority with the capability of
efficiently managing the sector. Also, it is thought that the Association's
involvement in the sector would help in fostering the implementation of proper
policies and procedures that are necessary to accomplish the improvement and
expansion of public water supply and sanitation in PDRY.
Risks
7.10     The proposed project presents no special risks.  PWC with the assis-
tance of engineering consultants should be able to supervise the project exe-
cution properly. Its supervision of the studies should confront no problems,
as the corporation has gained experience in the execution of the Engineering
Project (Credit S-21 YDR). Finally, the implementation of the health
education progranm is not subject to any special risks.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters
IV through VI, and subject to the condition of effectiveness set forth in
para. 4.23, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$3.5 mil-
lion to the Government of PDRY, which would onlend US$3.2 million from the
proceeds of the Credit to PWC for a term of 20 years including 5 years of
grace.



PEOPLE'S DEhOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF -YEMN
AL MUKALIA WATER SUPPLY REHABLITATION PROJECT
PAST AND PROPOSED INVESTMENTS IN WATER SUPPLY 1/
(YD Thousands)
Line                       Project                      1968-1978 2/  1979          1980       1981         1982       1983       1979-1983       1984        1985       1986         1987       1984-1987
I     Planning, Studies and Design                         157        450         --         --            111          59           620        --          200         150          --            350
2     Aden System - Improvement                          1,122        264         400        300           --          --            964        --          --          -^--
3     Aden Master Plan - 1st Phase                         --         --          --         283         3,017      6,852        10,152       2,739         212         350       2,200         5.501
4     Hawta/Waht                                           132                    --          --
5     Khalla Dhala                                          65        --           50          50          _-          __            100        --          --          --           __            __
6     Saber                                                250        --          __         __            __          __            __
7     Gaar zinzibar                                        36S        --          --         --            --          --            --           20         40          30          --             90
8     Nisab                                                198                    --         --            --          --            --         --          --          --           --            --
9     Muk.faia System                                      682        200         100        200           765         553        1,818           54      1.900       2,100        2.500         6.554
10     Ghail Shahir                                         479          38        120        140            47         --            345         --         --          --           --            --
11     Quatun Seiyun                                         90         100        230        450           370         47,;        1,628        446         300         400          --          1,146
12     Gadeb                                                 21        --          --         --            --          --            --         --          --          --           _  
13     GhaidLh                                               85         184         96        --            __                        280        --
14      peri, Island                                         58        --          --         --            --          --            --          --         --           _           __            __
15     Ghil Bawazr                                          --            5         20          15          --          --             40          20         10         --           --             30
16     Other Villages                                       109        470         292        --            --          --            762          50         60          80          __            190
17     Wadiys                                                72        --                                   --                              --         --          --          --                   --
18     Mudiye                                                85        --          __         __            __          __            __         __          __          __           __            __
19     North Desert (4th, 5th & 6th Cov.)                   110        --
20     Chinese Assistance                                   445
21     Other Assistance                                     445        _           __        __            _            __         _  __         _           __       __              _             _
22     GRAND TOTALI11                                                        1 1 ,308       1 438         4 310    __             16i 709      3,329       2_72        3,110        4,700        13,861
23      Grand Total in US$  3/                          14_425       4_962      3L793       4.170        12 499     23,932        48,456       9,654       7L894       9,19        13_630       40 197
-_-_-_    - - - - - -- - - - - - - - ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- -   -   - - - - - -_-.-- -
1/     Expressed in current prices
2/     Corresponds to the three first investment plans
3/     lIased on a constant exchange rate of YDI = US$2.9



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
POPULATION, SERVICE LINES AND WATER CONSUMPTION. PAST AND FORECAST
Number of                                                          Per Capita         Unaccounted            Rlequired          Maximum
Year         Total   1/    Population           % of Population         Service                    Cons     umption, lters/seconsumption                       for Water        Av. Production        Day Demand
Population -       Connected -           Connected             Lines I/         Domestic &                                      liters/day,1                             litcrs/s-c.         Liters/sec.
Public    Industrial        Total
(1)          (2)               (3)            (4) = (3) x 100            (5)               (6)           (7)       (8)- (6)-f(7)     (9)- (8)x 86.400           (10)        (11)-l0O0x (8)          (12) (11) x 1.3
(2)                                                                                        (2)                              100 - (10)
1977        50,300             37,950                  75.4               6,325             18.0           -            18.0                  37                  40                 30.0                 39.0
1978       51,800              41,900                  80.9               6,984             21.8           -            Z1.8                 42                   40                 36.3                 47.2
1979        53,200             49,000                  92.1               8,169             23.6          3.0           26.6                 44                   40                 44.3                 57.6
1980        54,600             53,300                  97.6               8,900             26.5          3.0           29.5                  47                   40                49.2                 64.0
1981        56,000             56,000                 100.0               9,350             27.2          5.0           32.2                  50                   40                53.7                 69.8
1982        57,500             57,500                 100.0               9,600             28.0          6.0           34.0                  51                   39                55.7                 72.4
1983        59,000             59,000                 100.0               9,850             28.7          7.0           35.7                  52                   38                57.6                 74.9
1984        60,500             60,500                 100.0              10,100             29.4          8.0           37.4                  53                   37                59.4                 77.2
1985        62,100             62,100                 100.0              10,350             32.3          9.0           41.3                  57                   34                62.6                 81.4
1986        63 800             63,800                 100.0              10,650              35.4        10.0           45.4                  61                   32                66.8                 86.8
1987        65,500             65,500                 100.0              10,920              38.7        11.0           49.7                  66                   30                71.0                 92.3
1988        67.200             67,200                 100.0              11,200             42.0         12.0           54.0                  69                   28                75.0                 97.5
1989        68,900             68,900                 100.0              11,500             46.3         13.0           59.3                  74                   26                80.1                104.1
1990        70,800             70,800                 100.0              11,800              50.8        14.0           64.8                  79                   25                86.4                112.3
2000        87,400             87,400                 100.0              14,600              68.8        25.0           93.8                  93                   25               125.1                162.6
1'  Refer to mid-year populations and service lines.
_t  Takes into accout the p-pularls- served by standposts, based on
an allowance of 10 liters per capita per day.



-36-                                           ANNEX   3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ALMUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER DEMAND
100                                                                                                             100
0 
O POPULATION IN
0 5 
50                                                                                5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1980                          1990                          2000
1n~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
l         ~~YEARS    
F IR STI  SA'5 U F
120                                                  LONG TERM PLAN __/_120
|       /     ~~MAXIMUM
I /_,_ 'DAY DEMAND
r )                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRO DU CTII ON  u//r
LU
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
tu  80                              ~-                                              _/                         80  -
ACTUAL AVAILABLE I
d       PRODUCTION, 60 LITERS/SEC
z                                                                                                                       Lu
AVERAGE DEMAND
LU                                                            PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT OF
6                      /-                                   EXISTIN G PRODUCTION FACILTIES
40   /       /                ~~~~~~PRODUCTION DEFICIT                          .4
40                                                                                                             40
1975                          1980                         1985                           1990
YEARS
April 21, 1981                                                                              World Bank-2245 2



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER bUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Study of Artificial Recharge of the Aquifers
Underlying the Wadis Buwaysh, Khirba and Huwairah
Background
1.     Al Mukalla, PDRY's second largest city, is presently supplied with
groundwater frorm eight boreholes sunk in the Wadi Buwaysh Aquifer. This
well field is located some 15 km to the northeast of Al Mukalla and water
is conveyed to the city by a 12-in transmission pipeline whose hydraulic
capacity is estimated at 100 l/s. At present, the average production at
the well field is estimated at 60 1/s, well below the projected medium-term
demand in Al Mukalla.
2.     To the west of Al Mukalla and at about 12 km underlies another
aquifer, the Wadi Khirba, which can also be used to supply Al Mukalla and
a village, Fuwwah, located on the route between the Wadi Khirba and Al
Mukalla. The yield of this aquifer is calculated to be around 20 1/s.
3.     A third possible water supply source for Al Mukalla is the Wadi
Huwairah Aquifer located some 33 km to the north-east of Al Mukalla. The
yield of this aquifer is estimated to be between 20 1/s and 40 l/s.
4.     These three aquifers are the closest to Al Mukalla and the most
convenient for its water supply, though their present total yield cannot
cover the projected long-term demands in this city. However, previous
hydrogeological studies have shown that a large amount of flood waters is
drained by coastal wadis into the Indian Ocean and that it is possible to
raise the yields of the aquifers by stocking those waters, to increase the
infiltration rate into the aquifers. With such increase, it is believed
that the average production at Wadi Buwaysh can be raised to 100 l/s, and
that an average of 60 I/s can be extracted from Wadi Khirba, and about
50 1/s from Wadi Huwairah.
5.     The Public Water Corporation (PWC), the national water supply
authority, is proposing to carry out a study of feasible ways to proceed
with the proposed artificial recharge of the Wadis Buwaysh, Khirba and
Huwairah.



- 38 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
Scope of the Study
6.     The objective of the study is to specify the best methods that
should be used to recharge artificially the Wadi Buwaysh Aquifer, the Wadi
Khirba Aquifer and the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer with flood waters, in order to
be able to increase groundwater extraction from these aquifers.  The study
should indicate the locations, type and characteristics of structures
needed to store flood waters, as well as those of the infiltration
facilities.  The detailed design of these structures and facilities, as
well as technical specifications and contract documents needed for their
bidding and construction, are required.
7.     In addition, it is intended to proceed with the establishment of
rainfall and gauging stations in the three areas under study, to record the
intensity and duration of storms and flood flows in the deltas. Also, four
exploratory wells will be drilled in the Wadis Khirba and Huwairah and
pumping tests, as well as measurement of water levels in existing wells,
will be made to determine the hydraulic characteristics of the Wadi Khirba
Aquifer and the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer.
Selection of Consultants
8.     To attain the above objective, a consulting engineering firm
experienced in the fields of groundwater exploration and irrigation works,
will be appointed. On the basis of the present terms of reference,
selected firms will be requested to submit proposals for carrying out the
proposed study.
Data Collection and Survey
9.     All existing relevant data, reports, maps and other information on
hydrology, geology, land use and groundwater resources in the deltas of the
Wadi Buwaysh, the Wadi Khirba and the Wadi Huwairah, will be made available
to the Consultants who will review and reinterpret these data and reports.
The Consultants will carry out a general survey of the wadis to determine
potential areas where flood waters can be directed to infiltrate and
recharge the aquifers. Topographical and geotechnical studies of these
areas will be carried out by the Consultants. The alternatives of
spreading flood water over cultivated land or other areas, or diverting it
into infiltration basins, would be investigated.
10.    The Consultants will execute all the necessary topographical and
geotechnical studies, including the survey of possible sites for dams and
offtakes, infiltration basins and spreading areas. The Consultants will
determine the mechanical characteristics of the soils at the selected sites.



- 39 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 3
Alternative Schemes
11.    The Consultants will investigate all the possible schemes that can
be used to increase the recharging rate of the aquifers. In particular,
the three following schemes will be reviewed in detail:
(i)    building flood control structures in the wadi beds to slow down
the Flood flows, with the result of higher infiltration rates
into the aquifers;
(ii)    diverting flood waters to land bordering on the wadis, or into
infiltration basins; and
(iii)    storing flood waters in open reservoirs.
12.    The Consultants will review the technical and financial merits of
each of the feasible schemes, and will carry out an economic comparison of
these schemes. Finally they will submit a feasibility report on the
proposed recharge presenting their recommendations to PWC regarding the
selection of particular schemes.
Design of the Selected Schemes
13.    Following PWC's approval of the feasibility report and the selected
schemes, the Conlsultants will proceed with the detailed design of these
schemes. The Consultants will prepare detailed plans, sections and
longitudinal profiles of all structures to be built under the proposed
scheme. They will in particular indicate the procedures that should be
followed betweein storms to scrape the top soil in the infiltration basins
in order to maintain an adequate percolation rate to the aquifers. The
estimated cost of the proposed works will be given. The foregoing
documents will be accompanied by a report describing the selected schemes
and presenting the assumptions made in the design of the proposed
structures. All calculation notes will be inserted in the report.
14.    The Consultants will prepare and submit all contract documents,
including general and particular conditions, technical specifications of
the proposed works, that will be used to tender and subsequently to
construct the sielected schemes.
Rainfall and Runoff
15.    There is at present no rainfall station within the deltas under
study. A monitoring rainfall station is in operation at Riyan Airport on
the coast. The Consultants will propose all necessary improvements to this
station and will select and propose new locations for the installation of a
network of rain gauges adequate to monitor rainfall properly in the deltas.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
16.    No gauging station presently exists on the wadis.  The Consultants
will identify three ideal sections (one on each wadi) where gauging
stations should be established to measure flood flows in the wadis. The
Consultants will submit the specifications of these stations, will super-
vise their installation and will monitor them during the study.
Study of the Aquifers
17.    The Consultants will review the geology of the catchment areas of
the Wadi Khirba Aquifer and the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer. They will collect
and analyze logs from wells in construction. The Consultants will carry
out all necessary works to locate the possible various aquifers and to
determine their hydraulic conditions. They will determine the levels of
unconfined and confined aquifers and the static water levels in different
areas of the deltas. The Consultants will carry out geophysical prospec-
tion of the deltas through seismic or resistivity methods, gravimetric sur-
veying or any other approved method. They will also execute electric
logging or gamma-ray logs of uncased boreholes.
18.    The Consultants will further carry out physical and chemical
analyses of the groundwaters. They will study the conductivity of the
waters at various locations in the deltas.
Location of Well Fields
19.    The Consultants will identify the most promising areas to locate
well fields in the deltas of Wadi Khirba and Wadi Huwairah. The Consul-
tants will indicate four locations (2 in each delta) where PWC should drill
four exploratory wells. They will also recommend the methods for drilling
and constructing the wells.
20.    The Consultants will supervise the drilling of the wells.  During
the execution of the wells, the Consultants will collect and analyze
samples of the soil formations; they will also execute an electric logging
or gamma-ray logs of the uncased boreholes.  The Consultants will further
carry out physical and chemical analysis of the groundwater. Based on the
above results, the Consultants will decide on whether or not an exploratory
borehole should be transformed into a production well and in the
affirmative will prepare the final design of the wells.
21.    The Consultants will analyze the aquifer formation in order to
design the well screens. The Consultants will propose appropriate methods
for developing the wells; they will supervise such development and pumping
tests of the wells. Following these tests, the Consultants will report on
the characteristics of the aquifers, identifying any possible boundaries
and interferences. The Consultants will then specify the characteristics
of pumping and driven units that should be installed on the wells to
deliver required flows that will be indicated later by PWC.



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
22.    The Consultants will prepare and submit a report on the hydraulic
characteristics of the Wadi Khirba Aquifer and the Wadi Huwairah Aquifer,
indicating the most suitable areas where production wells should be
located, the design and spacing of the wells and the collecting works.
Timetable and Reports
23.    The study is envisaged to be carried out in an elapsed time of not
more than 30 months. The Consultants will submit:
(a)    the feasibility report on the infiltration works within 6 months
of the start of the study, summarizing initial findings after
review of existing data, detailing the program of data
collection, exploration and field work, and dealing with the
feasibility of increasing the recharge of the aquifers with
flood waters. PWC will have one month to review the report and
pass its comments to the Consultants;
(b)    progress reports at quarterly intervals, describing work
performed during the quarter and the work program for the next
quarter, and summarizing findings;
(c)    at tihe end of the 15th month following the start of the study, a
final report incorporating all the findings and detailed
drawings of the proposed infiltration structures. A draft of
the final report will be submitted for review at least two
months before its scheduled release date. PWC should give the
Consultants its comments within one month of receipt of the
report;
(d)    the final report on the Wadi Khirba Aquifer and the Wadi
Huwairah Aquifer within 24 months of the start of the study,
assuming that the Consultants will identify the locations of the
exploratory wells within the end of the 12th month following the
start of the study and that drilling by PWC of the wells will be
completed by the end of the 18th month; and
(e)    at the end of the assignment, a report on hydrological and
climatic conditions in the deltas of the Wadi Khirba and the
Wadi Huwairah, analyzing and interpreting the data collected
during the study.
24.    The feasibility report and progress reports are to be submitted in
twenty (20) copies, and the final reports and bidding documents in fifty
(50) copies.



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
Proposals
25.    Proposals in 5 copies in the English language should be submitted
by                               to the Public Water Corporation (PWC),
Crater, Aden, PDRY.
26.    Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(i)    a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its areas of
specialism;
(ii)    a description of relevant assignments previously carried out by
the firm;
(iii)    an explanation of the way in which the consultants propose to
approach the assignment, including any comment they may wish to
make on the terms of reference or any modifications they may
wish to propose in the interest of better achieving the
objectives of the assignment;
(iv)    a brief description of any special methodology to be employed
(for example, use of computers);
(v)    a staffing chart for the assignment, showing each specialist to
be employed and indicating the nature and duration of his
involvement (distinguishing time in PDRY from time at the home
office);
(vi)    an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(vii)    curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment;
and
(viii)    a statement of any special facilities the Consultants may
require in carrying out the assignment.
27.    Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.  The
Consultants should indicate in their offers any assistance that should be
provided to them, such as accommodation, local transportation and other
facilities.



- 43 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A4L MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECI
Terms of Reference for Study of Urban Growth in the
Al Mukalla-Fuwwah Conurbation
Background
1.       Al Mukailla, with a current population of 55,000, is PDRY's second
largest city, which is divided into three conglomerate districts: the two
oldest, Old Mukalla and Al Omal, are fully developed and their population
is approaching the saturation level. Housing in these districts mainly
consists of old apartment buildings. The third district, October, is more
recent, less densely populated and is equipped with a more modern urban
infrastructure. Housing in this district comprises more recent apartment
buildings and individual houses, which are provided with modern sanitary
facilities.
2.       The 1973 census (the only one ever made in PDRY) recorded a popu-
lation of 44,626 in Al Mukalla. It is estimated that since then the popu-
lation has been increasing at an average rate of 3% to reach the present
estimate of 55,000. It is further assumed that the population growth rate
would decline to 2.6% during this decade and to 2.1% during the next
decade. Present population density is calculated to average 420 inhab/ha
in the districts of Old Mukalla and Al Omal, and 90 inhab/ha in the dis-
trict of October.
3.       As indicated earlier, no more urban expansion can take place in
the districts of Old Mukalla and Al Omal. In contrast, major population
increase is projected to happen in the October District, where much land is
still available for expanded urbanization. In addition, it is expected
that concurrently with urban expansion in the October District, urban
developments would take place in the village of Fuwwah, situated
approximately 11 km to the west of Al Mukalla, and in a strip of land along
the road between Al Mukalla and Fuwwah. The present population of Fuwwah
is estimated to be approximately 1,400. The expectation is that eventually
the two communities would form a single metropolitan area.
4.       Long-term urbanization plans in PDRY are prepared by the Depart-
ment of Town Planning of the Ministry of Construction. However, provision
of public services is the responsibility of the General Directorate for
Local Administration. Public water supply and limited sanitation services
are provided in Al Mukalla; no such services now exist in Fuwwah.



- 44                         ANNEX 5
Page 2
Objective of the Study
5.       The objective of the study is to determine the balance between
urban development in Al Mukalla (October District) and in Fuwwah, and the
urbanization pace in Fuwwah. The study should also forecast when Fuwwah
should be provided with basic urban services, such as public water supply
and sewerage.
Selection of Consultants
6.       To attain the proposed objective, the Ministry of Construction
intends to appoint a consulting firm (or a consultant) experienced in
population forecast and urban planning. On the basis of the present terms
of reference, selected firms or consultants will be asked to submit
proposals for carrying out the study.
Population Forecast and Urban Growth
7.       First, the Consultants will review the 1973 census results for Al
Mukalla and other relevant demographic reports and information on the area
under study. They will then investigate the patterns of population growth
and urban developments which have taken place in Al Mukalla during the last
eight years. The Consultants should carry out a limited population survey
to estimate the city's current population. They will evaluate the condi-
tions of existing urban infrastructure (such as roads, housing, land, water
supply and sanitation) and determine whether or not they have hampered
and/or will hamper the pace of urbanization in the city. The Consultants
will execute a similar survey and study for Fuwwah and the area located
between Al Mukalla and Fuwwah.
8.       Based on their review of the existing data and the results of the
surveys and studies mentioned in para. 7, the Consultants will forecast the
urbanization pace and future populations in the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah Conurba-
tion up to the year 2000. The Consultants will provide a forecast of popu-
lation distribution and density in the conurbation.
Provision of Public Services
9.       On the basis of their forecast of population growth in Fuwwah, the
Consultants will indicate when public services, in particular water supply,
should be provided in this area. The Consultants should try to correlate
the assumptions made in forecasting population growth and urban develop-
ment, into a mathematical model that could be used to monitor the evolution
of urban expansion in the conurbation.
Timetable and Report
10.      The proposed study is envisaged to be executed in an elapsed time
of not more than six months. The Consultants will submit:



- 45 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 3
(a)  an inception report within two months of the start of the study,
summarizing initial findings after review of existing data and
detailing the work program of the requested surveys and investiga-
tions;
(b)  monthly progress reports, describing work performed during the
month and the work program for the next month, and summarizing
findings; and
(c)  at the end of the assignment, a final report incorporating all the
findings and outlining the forecast urbanization pace in the Al
Mukalla-Fuwwah Conurbation. A draft of the final report will be
submitted for review at least one month before its scheduled
release date. The Ministry of Construction will provide its
comments within 15 days of receipt of the report.
11.      The inception report and progress reports are to be submitted in
twenty (20) copies, and the final report in fifty (50) copies.
Proposals
12.      Proposals in 5 copies in the English language should be submitted
by                to the Ministry of Construction, Aden, PDRY.
13.      Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(i)  a description of the consulting firm and its areas of specialism
or the consultant's specialization field;
(ii)  a description of relevant assignments previously carried out by
the firm or the consultant;
(iii) an explanation of the way in which the consultants propose to
approach the assignment, including any comment they may wish to
make on the terms of reference or any modifications they may wish
to propose in the interest of better achieving the objectives of
the assignment;
(iv)  a brief description of any special methodology to be employed (for
example, use of computers);
(v)  a staffing chart for the assignment, showing each specialist to be
employed and indicating the nature and duration of his involvement
(distinguishing time in PDRY from time at the home office);
(vi)  an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(vii)  curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment; and



- 46 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 4
(viii) a statement of any special facilities the consultants may require
in carrying out the assignment.
14.      Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.  The
consultants should indicate in their offers any assistance that should be
provided to them, such as accommodation, local transportation and other
facilities.



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance in Health Education
Introduction
1.       The Government of PDRY intends to execute a health education
program aiming at inciting the population in Al Mukalla, the country's
second largest city, to improve sanitary and health practices. Health
services in PDRY are provided free by the Ministry of Health which is
assisted in this task by four national organizations;  the People's Defense
Committee, the Yemeni Women's Federation, the Yemeni Youth Committee and
the Yemeni Students Union. At the level of the Ministry, health education
activities are planned and coordinated by a Health Education Unit which is
integrated into the Department of Preventive Medicine. This unit receives
technical assistance from the Institute of Health and Manpower Development,
an agency of the Ministry of Health.
2.       Present sanitary conditions in Al Mukalla are poor, due partly to
lack of adequate sanitation, drainage and waste disposal. But in spite of
the inadequacy of these services, the actual high incidence of infectious
diseases in this city could be reduced, if safer sanitary and health
practices are followed by the population. Therefore, the objective of the
proposed program is to arise the population's awareness of the link between
these diseases and poor sanitary practices. The program is expected to be
implemented over an initial period of three years.
Objective of the Assistance
3.       The objective of the technical assistance is to help the Ministry
of Health formulate and implement the envisaged health education program.
In addition, technical assistance and in-service training would be provided
to the staff of the Health Education Unit and the Institute of Health and
Manpower Development. Assistance also would be given to local authorities
in Al Mukalla to help develop a coordinated mechanism for the control of
hygienic practices relevant to the processing and manipulation of food,
water, liquid and solid wastes.
4.       To carry out this assistance, the Ministry of Health intends to
use the services of an expert in health education. Such services would be
provided on a part-time basis and would be required especially during the
preparation and initial implementation of the program.



- 48 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 2
Areas of Assistance
5.       The expert's assistance and involvement is needed for the follow-
ing aspects of the program;
(i)  appraisal of sanitary and health practices in Al Mukalla, and
their possible links with social attitudes and religious beliefs;
(ii)  preparation of appropriate radio and television spots and shows,
highlighting benefits of good sanitary habits;
(iii)  provision of on-the-job training to staff of the Health Education
Unit and the Institute of Health and Manpower Development;
(iv)  providing advice for the establishment of a relevant library and
the purchase of educational equipment and materials;
(v) design of a strategy for the involvement of the national organiza-
tions referred to in paragraph 1, in the education campaign;
(vi)  revision of health education curricula at the Institute of Health
and Manpower Development and in schools;
(vii)  preparation of regulations for the control of sanitary practices
in relation to water use and disposal of excreta and wastewaters
in Al Mukalla;
(viii)  feasibility study of the use of an incentive, such as free
distribution of detergents or hygienic tissues, to foster better
health practices; and
(ix)  design of procedures for the safe use of excreta in agriculture.
6.       The requested assistance would not necessarily be limited to the
foregoing areas. The Ministry of Health may also ask the expert to give
assistance in other health programs and to other cities.
Qualifications and Experience
7.       The expert should be a graduate public health specialist with at
least ten years of experience in health education and training. Fluency in
English and Arabic is required. Work experience with public administration
in developing countries and in particular in the Middle East, is desirable.
Invitation to Apply
8.       The Ministry of Health hereby invites interested individuals meet-
ing the above qualifications and experience to apply for the advisory post



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
described in paragraphs 3 to 6. Candidates should submit biographic data
and particularly a detailed description of previous job positions and
assignments. The candidates are invited to comment on the terms of refer-
ence and may propose any modifications which in their views are in the
interest of better achieving the requested technical assistance. They will
indicate salary requirements and other assistance and accommodation they
wish to receive from the Ministry of Health. The portion of the expert's
salary and expenses in foreign currencies will be paid by the World Bank.



- 50 -                                               ANNEX 7
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Local     Foreign      Total           Local      Foreign      Total
Item                                 -       YD Thousands --------           -------US$ Thousands ------
A. WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION
Construction of Two Wells                             8          75          83             23          218         241
Equipment for Wells                                   2          20          22              6           58          64
Expansion of Distribution Network                    17         118         135             49          342         391
New Sharj Reservoir                                 104         174         278            302          505         807
Supply of Booster Pump                                1           5           6              3           14          17
Rehabilitation of Bagrain Spring                      1          -            1              3           -            3
Immediate Repairs and Improvements                    8         55          63              23          160         183
Supply of Water Meters                               -           16         16              -            46          46
Construction of Chlorination Station                  4           7          11             12           20          32
Supply of Operational Equipment                      -           63          63             -           183         183
Remote Control System                                 3          11          14              9           32          41
Construction of a Warehouse                           7          15          22             20           43          63
Sub-total A                                  155         559         714            450        1,621       2,071
B.   HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAM
Supply of Equipment and Materials                     5          23          28             14           66          80
Consulting Services                                   9          25          34             26           73          99
Staff Training                                        5           8          13             16           22          38
Program Production                                    2          -            2              6            1           7
Sub-total B                                   21          56          77             62          162         224
C.   STUDIES AND ASSISTANCE
Ground Water Recharge of Resources                    5         121        126              15          350         365
Exploratory Wells                                    17          50         67              48          146         194
Population Growth Patterns                            6          23         29              17           67          84
Hydrogeology of Resources                           11          57          68              32          166         198
Sub-total C                                   39         251         290            112          729         841
Physical Contingencies                               32        130         162              93          376        469
Construction Supervision                             10         31          41              29           90         119
Total Cost (End 1980 Prices)                 257       1,027       1,284            746        2,978       3,724
Price Escalation                                     53        180         233            154           522         676
TOTAL COST (Current Prices)                  310       1,207       1,517            900        3,500       4,400
1/   Based on a constant rate of exchange of YD1 = US$2.9



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNUAL PROJECT INVESTMENTS
(YD Thousands)
1982            |        1983            1        1984             T       Total
Item
Local     Foreign       Local      Foreign        Local      Foreign       Local      Foreign
A.   WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION
Construction of Two Wells                          10           98          _     -                               -            10          98
Equipment for Wells                                -            26           3          -             -           -             3          26
Expansion of Distribution Network                  -           118          12          46            12          -            24         164
New Sharj Reservoir                                69          114          74         123            -           -           143         237
Supply of Booster Pump                             -             6           1          -             _           _             1           6
Rehabilitatfon of Bagrain Spring                   -             -            1         -             _           _             1          -
Immediate Repairs and Improvements                 -            39           6          36             6          _            12          75
Supply of Water Meters                              -           21          _-                                                 -           21
Construction of Chlorination Station                -             9           5         -                                       5            9
Supply of Operational Equipment                     -           42          _           43            _           _            -           85
Remote Control System                               -            -           -           15            5          _              5          15                           @
Construction of a Warehouse                         -           _            10         21            -                        10          21
Sub-Total A                                   T           473         m           284           23           _           214         757
B.   HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAM                            14           37           7          20            8          21            29          78
C.   STUDIES AND ASSISTANCE
Grolindwater Recharge of Resources                   6          105           2          57           -           -              8        162
Exploratory wells                                   11           30          12         35            _           _            23          65
Popkilation Growth Patterns                          8           30          _     -           -                  -              8          30
Hydrogeological Studies                              5           25           5          24            5          25           15           74
Sub-Total C                                   30          190          19         116             5          25           54         331
D.   COt6TRUCTION SUPERVISION                             5           26           7          15            1           -            13          41
TOTAL COST (Current Prices)                  128          726         145         435            37          46          310       1,207
TOTAL COST (05$ Thouaanda)2/                 372        2,105         421       1Q.262          107         133          900       3,500
1/ All costs are expressed in current prices and already include
physical contingencies and price escalation.
2/ Based on a constant rate of exchange of YD1 * US$2.9



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ALMUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
BAR CHART FOR BIDDING AND EXECUTION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
CALENDAR YEAR      1981              1982                  1983                    1984
MONTHS AFTER PROJECT START 1   3    6        9 1    12   15   18 1 21 I 24   27   30    33   36   39   4
1 CONSTFUCTION OF TWO WELLS
2 EQUIPMENT FOR WELLS                      ..... ,   1'
3 EXPANSION OF DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                    .... .....
4 NEW SHARJ RESERVOIR                                  ... .....-            
5 SUPPLY OF BOOSTER PUMP                                         ......
6 REHABILITATION OF BAGRAIN SPRING
7 IMMEDIATE REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS                  .... ...... .
8 SUPPLY OF WATER METERS                               .... ..... 0111111mm
9 CONSTIUCTION OF CHLORINATION STATION                 ............                                                                           L
10 SUPPLY OF OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT                       .. .........
11 REMOTE CONTROL SYSTEM                                                      .......          wr
12 CONSTRUCTION OF A WAREHOUSE                                    ......
13 HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAM                                  _                                  -      - _
14 STUDY OF WATER RESOURCES                                       I - _ _                  -    -      -    -
15 STUDY OF POPULATION GROWTH                           -
16 CONSTFIUCTION SUPERVISION                                                                                -    -    -
LEG END
.............. _
EXECUTION OF ACTIVITY
SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT OR MATERIALS
BIDDING
_     - _- _   _ SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS OR ADVISERS
April 21, 1981                                                                                                World Bank - 22451



- 53 -                       ANNEX 10
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MSUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
1/                        IDA Credit                   Government Funds
In Quarter     Cumulative L/    In Quarter        Cumulative "
1983     First              35              35                  5              5
Second            105             140                25              30
Third             475             615                50              80
Fourth            485          1,100                105             185
1984     First             520           1,620               150             335
Second            530          2,150                140             475
Third             450           2,600               133             608
Fourth            460           3,060               130             738
1985     First             200           3,260                72             810
Second             70           3,330                25             835
Third              70           3,400                25             860
Fourth             35           3,435                20             880
1986     First              30           3,465                t0             890
Second             35           3,500                10             900
1/  Runs  from July 1 of a preceding year to
June 30 of the current year.
2/ The figures shown under these columns give
estimated accumulated disbursements at the
end of the consecutive quarters.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ALMUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION - PWC
ORGANIZATION CHART UNDER IMPLEMENTATION
Board of
Administration
General
Manaer
Trainn                                 Planning
Pubc                                  Auditing
Reanons
Engineering    _             Adviser                           Fnce          _          Adviser                                           Operations                             I  die    
Wok                 Jdrisrto              Adminitratio                                       Prdcto r_  JD,s_____.ir
l~~~~~~~~~ne                                                              Ser- esnc
Drawing              Programmin                Secretariat               General               Meter Reading              Well Field     |      Mech/Elec Shop
Drawing  Programming                 ~~Legal               Accounting                  hillinag
2   Survey   l  J    Procurement                                           c                  New Customers              Transmission
Salary/Benefice              Accounting
Hydrology               Supervision             Procurement                Treasury                                         Laboratory                 Stores                  Dar suad
20 Governorate           50 Governorate                                                                                        Littleden
World Bank - 21271



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
P.W.C. - CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS - ACTUAL-' (1978-80) AND PROJECTED (1981-87)
---------- Actual l/ -------            __________________________--  Projected -----------------------------------
1978         1979         1980          1981         1982          1983        1984           1985           1986           1987
-------------------------------------------------- YD Thousand ----------------------------------------------------
Water Sold (million i3)                                       13.62       14.07          14.24        14.65         15.05         15.46       18.81          19.70          20.63         21.61
Water Produced (million m3)                                   20.87       21.27          21.37        21.59         21.73        21.89        26.03          26.69          27.89          29.20
Number of Connections at Year End (000)                       49.69       52.34          55.22        57.62         59.12        60.62        62.50          64.51         66.77          69.00
Average Pate (fils/rn3)                                       56.00       60.00          62.00       125.00        125.00       125.00       125.00         167.00         167.00        180.00
rane
Water Revenues                                           760          840          877          1,835        1,886         1,935       2,364          3,290          3,447          3,890
Meter Rentals                                              29          30           32             34            35           36           37             38            39             40
New Connections                                             4          21           21             19            13           14           18            21             25             28
Miscellaneous                                              11          20            15            15            15            15          15             15             15            15          1
Total Revenues                                         804          911          945          1,903        1,949         2,000       2,434          3,364          3,526          3,973
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                                 472         572          770            728           711          713          712            745           784            824
Fuel, Energy and Chemicals                                180         186          366            397          411           422          611           633            670            710
Distribution and Maintenance                               51          51            77            82            87            94         144            154           166            174
General and Administrative Expenses                        71          87           96            105           116          127          140            154           170            190
total Operating Expenses                               774          896        1,309          1,312        1,325         1,356       1,607          1,686          1,790          1,898
Income Before Depreciation                                       30           15         -364            591          624           644         827          1,678          1,736         2,075
Depreciation                                              264         267           272           286           301           315         360            562           803            897
Income Before Interest                                         -234         -252         -636            305          323           329         467          1,116            933         1  78
Operational :nterests                                       0           0             0              0            0             0           0            156           494            474
Income Before Income Tax                                       -234         -252         -636            305          323           329         467            960            439            704
Income Tax (37.5%)                                          0           0             0          -114          -121         -123        -175           -360           -165           -264
Net Income                                             -234        -252         -636            191           202           206         292           600            274            440
Operating Ratio (%) 2/                                         129.1       127.7        167.3           84.0          83.4         83.6        80.9           66.8           73.5           70.4
Rate of Return   )                                               0.0         0.0          0.0            7.7           7.6           7.4         8.1            8.7           4.4            5.0
Totals may not agree due to rounding
1/ Based on Unaudited Accounts
2/ Including Depreciation



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL inUALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
P.W.C. - CONSOLIDATED TABLE OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS - ACTUAL' (1978-80) AND PROJECTED (1981-87)
----------- Actual 1/ ---------               ----------------------- Projected --------------------------
1978      1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985         1986         1987
-------------------------------------------- YD Thousand ----------------------------------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Income Before Depreciation and Interest, and
After Tax (37.5%) and Surplus Distribution (75%)                 30         15        -364         334         351         367         433          868       1,365        1,481
Government's Contributions                                         37      1,696       1,672         851         521         682         753          793       3,210        4,802
Increase in other Liabilities                                      5           7           7           6           4           4           5            5           6            6
Increase in Legal Reserve                                         _            O____
42      1,703       1,679         857         525         686         758          798       3,216        4,808
Proposed IDA Credit                                                0           0           0           0          48         626         372          53            0            0
Existing IDA Credit                                                0           0           0         166         759       1,562       1,197         454            0            0
Other Loog Term Loans                                              O           0           0           7       1,006       4,499       2,227         988          490          157
Total Loans                                                   0           0           0         173      1,813        6,687       3,796       1,495         490          157
TOTAL SOURCES                                                72       1.718       1.315      1,365       2.690       7.741        4,985       3,161       5,071        6,446
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Proposed     Project  Supply     Project                           O           0           0           0         765         553          54           0            0            0
Greater Aden Water Supply Project                                  0           0           0         283       3,017       6,852       2,739         212            0            0
Other Investment5                                                 13       1,711       1,308       1.155         587         791       1,035       3,174       3.700         4_959
Total Investments                                            13       1,711      1,308        1,438      4,369        8,196       3,828       3,386       3,700        4,959
Amortization of IDA Credits                                        0           0           0           0           0           0           0          172         276          336
Amortization of Other Loans                                        0           0           0           0           0           0           0           44         419          495
Total Amortization                                                                                                                              216         695           831
Interest                                                                       0           0           0           0           0           0          156         494          474
Total Debt Service                                            0           0           0           0           0           0           0         372       1,189         1,305
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital                              59           7           7         -73     -1,679         -455       1,157         -597         182          182
Total Applications                                           72       1,718      1,315       1.365       2,690       7L74l       4.985        3,161       5,071         6,446
Debt  Service Coierage                                            NA          NA          NA          NA          NA          NA         NA           2.3         1.1          1.1
Totals may not agree due to rouniding
1/ Based on unaudited aCcounts



PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
P.W.C. - CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS - ACTUALY  (1978-80) AND PROJECTED (1981-87)
------ Actual 1/----------           -------------------------------- Projected -----------------------------------
1978       9197        1980          1981         1982          1983        1984         1985          1986         1987
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                               ------------------------------------------------ YD Thousand -----_________________- __________________________
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                                                  9,802      9,983       10,167       11,021       11,275       12,071       14,570       27,031       32,475        34,004
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                      5,925      6,192        6,464        6,750        7,051        7,366        7,726        8,288        9,091         9,988
Net Fixed Assets                                            3,877       3,791        3,703        4,271        4,224        4,705        6,844       18,743       23,384       24,016
Work-in-Progress                                                      358       1,888       3.012        3.595        7,710       15,110       16.439        7,364         5,620        9.050
Total Fixed Assets                                          4,235       5,679        6,715        7,866       11,934       19,815       23,283       26,107       29,004       33,066
Cash and Equivalent                                                   737         738         450           347          275          275          275          275          275          275
Accounts Receivable                                                   219         229          193          294          183          193          277          479          495          583
Other Receivables                                                     318         367          367          317          267          217          167           60            0            0
Inventories                                                           417        440          482          399          280          213          210           234          247          260
Total Current Assets                                         1,691      1,774        1,492        1,357        1,005          898          929        1,048        1,017        1,118
TOTAL ASSETS                                                5,926       t            8 207          223       12.939       2.fi,2.47 24,212          27,155       30,021       34  '84
Capital                                                             2,077       2,077        2,077       2,077        2,077         2,077        2,077        2,077        2,077        2,077
Government's Contributions                                          2,576       4,272        5,944        6,795        7,316        7,998        8,751        9,544       12,754       17,556
Revaluation Reserve                                                   622         622          622          622          622          627          622          622          622          622
Legal Reserve                                                          28          28           28          28            28           28           28           28           28           28
iarned Surplus (Deficit)                                             -409        -661      -1,297       -1,249         1.198       -_1146       -1,074         -924          856         -746
Total Equity                                                4,894       6,338        7,374        8,273        8,845        9,579       10,404       11,347       14,625        19,537
Proposed IDA Credit                                                     °           0            0            0           48          674        1,046        1,099          830          770
Existing IDA Credit                                                     0           0            0          166          925        2.487        3.512        3,690        3.414        3.138
Other Existing Loans                                                    0           0            0            7         ,13         5.512        7,695        8,264        8,468        8,130
Total Long-term Loans                                            0           0           0          173        1,986        8,673       12,253       13,053        12,712       12,038
Customers' Deposits                                                    88          95          202          108          112                                               --1 1 26   132  138
Total Long-term Loans and Other Liabilities                     88          95         102          281        2,098        8,789       12,374       13,179        12,844       12,176
Accounts Payable                                                      573         653          266          512          739        1,022          578          830          315          452
Pension Fund                                                          371         367          367            0            0            0            0            0            0             0
Short-Term Borrowings                                                   0           0            0            0          880          864          392          775        1,078          718
Contract Retentions                                                     0           0           98          157          377          458          248          329          328          470
Current Maturities                                                      0           0            0            0            0                        216        695          831
Total Current Liabilities                                      944       1,020          731         669        1,996        2,344         1,434        2,629        2,552        2,471       -
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                                 5,926       7,453       8.207        9.2.1.      1   93        20,713       24,212       27,155       30,021       34,184
Current Ratio                                                         1.8         1.8          2.0          2.0          0.5          0.4          0.6          0.4           0.4          0.5
Debt/Equity Ratio (7.)                                                NA           NA          NA          2:98        18:82        48:52        54:46        53:47        47:53         38:62
V/   Based on unaudited accounts                                                                                Total may not agree due to rounding



- 58 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Projections of Water Sales
1.       Projected water sales and number of service lines in Al Mukalla
are shown in Annex 2. Production and sales in the remaining provincial
towns were calculated and projected separately.
Water Rates
2.       The consolidated average tariff of PWC is projected as follows:
Year                    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Average Tariff
YD/m                  0.125   0.125   0.125   0.125   0.167   0.167   0.180
Items of the Income Statement
3.  (i)  Meter Rental - These revenues are calculated on the basis of YD
0.6 per meter per year, and based on the mid-year number of
service lines.
(ii)  New Connections - They are installed by PWC and paid by
customers. The average cost of a connection in 1979 was YD 6.7.
This cost in the ensuing years is assumed to increase annually by
5%.
(iii)  Miscellaneous - This item includes interest on deposits in banks
and various fees levied for reconnection and maintenance works. A
fixed lump sum of YD 15,000 is projected in the years 1980 through
1987.
(iv)  Personnel - Salaries are projected to increase annually by 5%.  It
is further assumed that the number of employees will gradually
decrease to reach by 1984 a ratio of 10 employees per 1,000
connections.
(v) Fuel, Energy and Chemicals - Fuel cost is projected to increase
annually by 15%. Fuel amount used in pumping stations is
estimated in each year in proportion of volume of water produced.
Electrical cost of pumping is projected at YD 0.016/m3 during
the next six years. Like fuel, chlorine needs (the only chemical
used) are calculated in proportion of water produced, and the unit
cost (YD 400/ton) is projected to increase annually by 10%.



- 59 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2
(vi) Maintenance - Provision for routine maintenance is estimated to
average 0.8% of the value of existing assets, and 0.2% of that of
facilities put in operation in 1980 and thereafter.
(vii) Depreciation - Calculated at straight-line rates based on the
estimated service lives of major assets. An annual average rate
of 2,7% is used.
Items of the Cash Flow Statement and Balance Sheet
4.  (a)  Cash and Equivalent.  Maintained at levels required to cover PWC's
normal operations.
(b)  Accounts Receivable - Arrears from private customers are expected
to decline progressively from their present level of 7 months of
sales to 2 months in 1982 and stay at this level in the ensuing
years. Arrears from public entities are assumed to decline to 3
months of sales in 1982. The accumulated provision for bad debt
as of December 31, 1979 is substantial and no additional provision
is made during the projection period.
(c)  Other Receivables.  They comprise advances made by the Central
Government to PWC to carry out development projects, and other
outstanding debts. The balance of this account is expected to be
cleared up by the end of 1985.
(d)  Stocks - Projected to decrease from a level of 5 years of consump-
tion of materials and chemicals in 1980, to 18 months in 1983 and
thereafter.
(e)  Accounts Payable - Variously projected as shown below;
(i)  Suppliers:  2 months of total capital expenditures and 4
months of stocks;
(ii)  Retention Money;  7% of annual investment which is paid back
at the end of guarantee periods;
(iii)  Customers' Deposits:  YD 2.5 per new customer.



PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
1978        1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985         1986       1987
-----------                                      YD Thousand ------------------------------------------
Fiscal Year Ending December 31
Indicators
1.  STAFFING
Number of Employees                                         916         875         874         773        720         683         651         650          650         650
Staff per 1,000 Connections                               18.3        16.8        15.9         13.3      12.2         11.2        10.3          10          9.7         9.4
Number of Staff Trained                                     __                                   50         75          75                                                         a,
2.  SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Water Sold, 106 m3/Year                                      14          14          14          15         15          15          19           20          21          22
Water Produced, 106 m3/Year                                  21          21          21          22         22          22          26           27          28          29
Unaccounted-for Water, %                                    35           34          33          32         31          29          28          26           25          25
Number of cooinections, 103                                 50          52           55          58         59          61          63          65           67          69
3.  FINANCE
Operating Ratio, % 1/                                    129.1       127.7       167.3        84.0       83.4        83.6         80.9        66.8        73.5         70.4
Rate of Return, % 2/                                                                            7.7        7.6         7.4         8.1         8.7         4.4          5.0
Current RatiO                                              1.8         1.8         2.0          2.0       0.5         0.4          0.6         0.4         0.4          0.5
Debt/Equity Ratio, %                                                   --          --         2:98      18:82       48:52        54:46       53:47       47:53        38:62
Average Rate in Fils per m3 Sold                            56          60           62         125        125         125         125         167          167         180
Average ReveOUe in Fils per m3 Produced                     39          43          44           88        90           91          94         126          126         136
Operating Expenses in Fils per m3 Sold                      57          64           92          90         88          88          85          86           87          88       z
Operating Effectiveness Index 3/                            73          65           69         64          73          70          70          69           74          72
1/  Total operating Expenses divided by Total Operating Revenues x 100.
2/ Income before Interest divided by Average Rate Base x 100.
3/  Revenue Collected per m3 Produced divided by Average Revenue Billed per m3.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABrLITATION PROJECT
CALCULATION OF THE INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 1/
Year            Water Sold       Incremental Sales         Gross Revenues         Capital Costs    Incremental          Total Costs       Net Revenues
from Sales  2/                3/          Operation &             4/
Maintenance
Costs
-----  (Mm3) ----------                    ----------------------------         (YD Thousands) ------------------------------------
1982               1.072               0.234                   33.2                   372                 2                  374              (340.8)
1983               1.126               0.288                   40.9                   183                 3                  186              (145.1)
1984               1.179               0.341                   48.4                    21                 5                   26                22.4
1985 -
1995            1.302               0.464                   65.9                    -                  8                    8               57.9
1996               1.302               0.464                   65.9                    12                 8                   20               45.9
1997 -
2010            1.302               0.464                   65.9                    -                  8                    8               57.9
2011               1.302               0.464                   65.9                    12                 8                   20                45.9
2012 -
2020            1.302               0.464                   65.9                    -                  8                    8               57.9
2021               1.302               0.464                   65.9                    (4)                8                    4                61.9
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  10.2%
NOTES:
1/  All values in the cost and revenue streams are expressed in terms of the 1982 price levels and
in YD Thousands.
2/  Based on an average tariff of YD 0.142/m3.
3/ Only 20% of expenditures for construction of the Sharj Reservoir and the supply of operational
equipment are charged to the project, as the remaining 80% aims at providing existing customers
with improved services, which are not however considered as project benefits.
4/  The long run average marginal cost of water supply in Al Mukalla for various discount rates is:
Discount Rate (%)        Marginal Cost (YD/m3)
2.0                        0.064
4.0                         0.081
6.0                        0.099
8.0                        0.119
10.0                        0.141
12.0                        0.162



- 62 -
ANNEX 18
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Assessment of Water Resources Potential for the Fuwwah, Mukalla, Ghail
Bawazir, Shihir, Khird Areas, SOGREAH Consulting Engineers, March 1980.
2. Mukalla Water Supply Project - Long Term Master Plan (2 Volumes),
SOCREAH Consulting Engineers, April. 1980.
3.  Mukalla Sewerage - Feasibility Study (2 Volumes), John Taylor and Sons
Consulting Civil Engineers.
4. Fuwwah Sewerage - Feasibility Study, John Taylor and Sons Consulting
Civil Engineers, September 1980.
5. Khalf Sewerage - Feasibility Study, John Taylor and Sons Consulting
Civil Engineers.
6. Mukalla Sewerage - Marine Survey Report for Long Sea Outfall, John
Taylor and Sons Consulting Civil Engineers, September 1980.
7. Establishment of a Natural Water Resources Service, FAO, 1980.
8. Artificial Recharge of the Aquifers Underlying the Wadis Khirba and
Buwaysh, SOGREAI- Consulting Engineers, August 1980.
9. Law No. 17 of 1977 on Local Administration in PDRY.
10. Law No. 44 of 1978 Organizing the General Directorate for Local
Administration.



________________________                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  15565
TURREB  BB~~~~~~~ ~~,'~~-' '~~~~'~~B, ABS            4B~~~~~~                         SOB                                  S2~~~~~                         FEBRUARY 1981RARY198
TURKF)  I'   B4.                                                                                           8'(P                                                                  2
HRAQ  .      I RAN    15APO L '                                                                      EU LC20'-
PEOPE'SDEMOCRATICREULCO YMN
\~ARA~ZOA~    ~               AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION AN~D SANITATION PROJECT
ADI BRABI                                                                  Project   Locatio
SUDAN               'R'            E
N  ~~~~E,4  ~    A50100                                        150                                 PI~ii1
/ DEHIOPI                         I                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
5   50       ~~~150C    155       200       250                                                       #-i/',
F -                                            'IO ~             ~        ~        ~       ~        ~ ~ .                              <                      ',4'4
KILOMETERS
""   ''  -4/B'.~  """-w<   c/) MAN
1                                                                    7/ 7~~~~~~AAAAR// ',,'/7//i~~~~~~~~~
ARABh                                                                                                                                                  eldoh 
SANA'A ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ A-/f~/'/,',/    A/ 
AedRio                                 AlShAy                                                                                                                 PROJECT AREA
PRIMARY ROADS
-------MAIN TRACKS
ff  I:NTER:NATIONAL AIRPORT
14                                                                                                                                HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RBOR  4
........OVERNbRATE BOUNDARIES
-. NTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS.'
BRpBRBBIB,BAARBAARBS  ''  '               ,""BIAAE'    Qf  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'""~~~'                                             201- 1000 METERSloo MTrR
ABAIBRIB BB RB B.ABAB, AR AR   BraCa,                                                                                                                    25~~~~U:  F  5 V  l01 -3000 METE Rs
ARBB,BRBABBYABAABAAA,B  46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   3O MT-                                                                I
ABRABR BRABBABRA  4B                             -~~~~~~~~41  -






_   <'                                           This otap iten best, preparedv by their |  | L 3  R'A  Q/ 5s       \oT  bp pdchY
p  <.~P                                        War/dRank  pta/f paP/nn,eei PS-WLkRAtdQt/k   -IRAQ 
th\eottorno rt tahd ,       .2                            r -  i  N A  N ,
~~~I    ~ ~~~~~~o 0t ~~~~~~~~~The d-nstnt,n  -od -d the                                  7pp
.4                                                           hostt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bdar,-th-e no thit sto  'L~.r t1~e*T~PKISTAN
\  d'1    j   ,   > f05'3                          do not stoly, on the part of the  3 >  13A      . 7 p&Kde-At -PyAKt
as   tt   r  r an, y  s- nd - -.s tnt  REP 9
E \i_EGYPT  \     AR ARABIA \B.oE 
$--)  g                                                                                                                    / 0 OSY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EME t^ 6i  OF YEhAEN
ARA'fA
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- \R~ v  .\ 
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 4r    0 C  0 61  P 
AL\SR 7  MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION AND SANITATION PROJECT
X o  PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT AND EXPANSION OF
AL MUKALLA WATERTHE WATER DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
Proposed Water Mains (diameters in inches)
Existing Water Mains (diameters in inches)
O     Proposed Reservoir
o     Existing Reservoirs
G  \  @\\  Main Roads
Built-up Areas
District Boundaries
°                                                                                                     0    100  200  300  400  500  600
\\\  \                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METER S 
Shari Reservoir                                                                                     METERS
Ne-w Slarl ReIasrvro-0, a,                  A:'
./--.xtW.mt  >  ffiffi   /   \\d                    O    Z  D     M/  U  K' A    Z  Z  A
A                                                                                                       Z  O   / 1/l  A    Z  |J  vvsl   S  gX    / D / S F R / C - r ; st > R *.tH ' i:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I"-d tt
D/5  T  R    /                                                   C                 Rservoir <<Xt~'~~  ''2  
6 u.t
-7                                     _                                                  _,  t  ,



