Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE COPY
Report No. P-3066-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980      April 1981
Currency Unit                       Yemeni Dinars (YD)        YD
Us$1         =                    YD 0.345             0.345
YD 1        =                     US$2.90              2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31           (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31        (1975)
January 1 to December 31    (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFE6D              -               Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development
DPM                -               Department of Preventive
Medicine
FAO                -               Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United
Nations
GDLA               -               General Directorate for Local
Administration
ICB                -               International Competitive
Bidding
MAAR               -               Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform
MOC                -               Ministry of Construction
MOH                -               Ministry of Health
PDRY               -               People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen
PWC                -               Public Water Corporation
SFYP               -               Second Five Year Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
Beneficiary:           Public Water Corporation (PWC)
Amount:                SDRs 2.9 million (about US$3.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA
Relending
Terms:                 Twenty years including 5 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 9.6 percent. The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Borrower.
Project
Description:           The project seeks to rehabilitate the existing water
supply system of Al Mukalla, the second largest
city,in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and
to prepare detailed plans of new water production
facilities for this city. It provides for an
immediate increase in water production to meet water
demands up to 1985 and for the expansion of the water
distribution network into the poorer sections of Al
Mukalla.  The project also provides for the
formulation and implementation of a health education
program designed to encourage the population in Al
Mukalla to improve health practices and sanitary
conditions. It further includes; hydrogeological
studies needed for the design of the water production
facilities; an urban growth study to forecast the pace
of urbanization in the Al Mukalla area and to plan for
the expansion of basic urban services in this area. A
total of 122 manmonths of consulting services is
provided. The project would provide substantial
health and environmental benefits to the population of
Al Mukalla. It presents no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1ii -
Estimated Cost 1/                                   Local      Foreign       Total
U--- us$ Million -------
Construction of wells                                 0.03        0.30         0.33
Improvement and expansion of
Distribution Network                                0.41        1.08         1.49
bupply of Water Meters                                -           0.05         0.05
Supply of Operational Equipment                       0.01        0.20         0.21
Subtotal                                          0.45        1.63         2.08
Groundwater Recharge btudy                            0.02        0.35         0.37
Groundwater Exploration                               0.08         .31         0.39
Health Education Program                              0.06        0.16         0.22
btudy of Urban Growth                                 0.02        0.07         0.09
Subtotal                                         0.63        2.52         3.15
Physical Contingencies                                0.09        0.37         0.46
Construction Supervision                              0.03        0.09         0.12
Price Contingencies                                   0.15        0.52         0.67
Total Project Cost                            0.90        3.50         4.40
1/ Excluding duties and taxes, which are not applicable to development
projects in PDRY.
Financing Plan:                                    Local        Foreign      Total
------- US $ Million --------
IDA                                                 3.5         3.5
Government                              0.9          -          0.9
Total                                   0.9         3.5         4.4
Estimated
Disbursements;                                FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86
--------- US $ Millions -------
Annual                         1.1       2.0       0.3      0.1
Cumulative                     1.1       3.1       3.4      3.5
Estimated Completion
Date:                         December 31, 1984
Rate of Return:               About 10 percent
btaff Appraisal Report:       No. 3361a-YDR of April 24, 1981



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 2.9 million (about US$3.5 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to
help finance an Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen: special Economic Report--The Second Five-Year Plan (1979-83)"1/
(2683-YDR) dated January 25, 1980, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on February 6, 1980. An updating economic mission has recently
returned from PDRY, and its preliminary findings are incorporated into this
part of the report. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.       Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a
socialist society. The principal objectives of the Government have been:
(a) to satisfy the basic needs of the population for food, essential
consumer goods, shelter, employment, health care and other social services;
(b) to aevelop the production capacity of the economy, especially in
agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to
strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e., transport, power and
telecommunications; (d) to raise education standards, emphasizing technical
and higher education; and (e) to increase exports of domestic products.
4.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on a
strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden
(banking, insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control.
subsequent investment in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral
exploration has given the public sector a dominant influence over industrial
activities. Two agrarian reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have
fundamentally changed the land tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal
holdings. Simultaneously, new farm organizations--state farms and
cooperatives--were created to facilitate the introduction of modern
cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing and consumer cooperatives
1/ The plan has subsequently been rescheduled (see para. 8).



-2-
were also established. More recently, two of the remaining foreign-owned
installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum) and an international
communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were transferred by mutual
consent to the Government of PDRY.
5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government, and
is to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives. But the
private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have regained some
strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account for almost
half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding government
services). Private activity can be found in almost every sector and is
strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and transport. The
volume of private investment--mainly in housing--has risen sharply since the
mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public investment. Cooperation between
public and private capital is encouraged in some areas, such as light
industries, and a limited number of joint ventures are now active. Foreign
private investors have been invited to participate in oil exploration and the
fishing industry. A new foreign investment law opening foreign investment to
other sectors such as tourism or construction, is presently under
consideration.
6.       since the early 1970's the country has made significant progress in a
number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased largely tbrough higher imports. School enrollment rose
sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health services
improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations built,
and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while more
recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment but created some labor shortages.
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and by
a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para.
17). Exports of domestic products, on the other hand, displayed little
dynamism reflecting in large part the low levels of capacity utilization
especially in agriculture and fisheries. Notwithstanding large investments in
these sectors, agricultural production stagnated in the last 5-6 years, while
fish catches declined sharply in 1978 and 1979.
8.       The second five-year plan continues to pursue the overall development
objectives outlined in para. 3 above. The plan was originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period. However, following a recommendation by the Council
on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their five-year
development plans, the second five-year plan will now commence in 1981. The
plan has recently been approved by the Council of Ministers and is expected to
be adopted by the People's Supreme Council in the near future. It proposes a
total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85 of which 19
percent is to be spent for energy, 17 percent for agriculture and fishing, 6



-3-
percent for manufacturing, 19 percent for transport and communications, 8
percent for education and health and 18 percent for housing. The plan assumes
that about $1.06 billion (72 percent) will be financed through foreign
capital, of which approximately $400 million had already been committed at the
beginning of the plan period. The production targets are ambitious. They
call for an overall rate of growth of 10 percent per annum with sectoral
growth targets of 14 percent for industry, 9 percent each for agriculture and
tisheries, and 11 percent for transport and communications. Production growth
is to be achieved not only through new investments but also through improved
utilization of existing capacities.
9.       In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortages of manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although
substantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
10.      The Government has tried to ease the sbortages of adequately trained
manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition,
again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education and training
program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly technically
oriented. Supported by scholarships for higber education abroad, and the
establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY the country is now
generating an increasing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower. Shortages of unskilled
labor exist mainly in the construction sector and could be eased through joint
ventures with foreign contractors.
11.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of the
principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages of
trained manpower,the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are otten compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight although the Government has recently started to pursue a
more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and tishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives to sell a large portion
of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.



-4-
Recent Economic Developments
12.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $57 million in 1974/75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers many of whom preferred to work
in the private sector where much higher wages are being paid. Current
government expenditures for education, health and more recently defense,
continued to grow through 1979 both in nominal and real terms.
13.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have
accelerated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated
to have grown at an annual average rate of about 9 percent during 1974-79,
compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-73. The major growth
sectors were government services, construction, manufacturing and transport.
Agricultural output, on the other hand, stagnated and fish production
apparently declined. To some extent the disappointing performance of
agriculture and fisheries was the result of labor migration from these sectors
to higher paid jobs within the country (i.e. construction) or abroad. But it
also reflects the productivity constraints mentioned in para. 11 above.
14.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation. New
taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition, profits
of public enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public sector
income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $187 million in 1979. This still
left a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $171 million in
1979.
15.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations- and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA and the IMF. Total foreign aid inflows rose from
$66 million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 disbursements dropped to
$87 million due in part to the decline in public investments.
16.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $411 million in 1979. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports in 1979 represented food and
beverages, 22 percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent
machinery and equipment.



17.      Indigenous exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover
only a minor share of the import bill. In 1979, they were estimated to be
about $20 million or some 5 percent of commodity imports. Much more important
than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by
workers' remittances. The latter rose rapidly since the mid-1970s, increasing
from $41 million in 1974 to $314 million in 1979. This has been due to rising
wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to additional emigration, and to new
incentives which liberalized "own exchange" imports, allowed the construction
of private dwellings, and offered higher interest rates to non-resident bank
depositors. Fast growing exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from
toreign aid have enabled PDRY in recent years to cover its import requirements
and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at
end 1974 to $210 million at end 1979, equivalent to about half of the imports
of that year.
18.      Foreign reserves continued to increase in the first half of 1980 but
they levelled off during the second half of that year. This probably reflects
rising imports and a slow-down in the growth of remittances. The volume of
imports is reported to have risen, especially for consumer goods and fuels; in
addition, import prices increased further. Workers' remittances, on the other
hand, are presumed to have grown at a slower pace as immigration and wages
tended to stabilize in the oil exporting countries. Rising import prices
intensified inflationary pressures within PDRY; these pressures were
reintorced by substantial increases in wage levels especially in the private
construction sector, and by growing domestic bank financing of public sector
expenditures.
External Debt
19.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1980
amounted to $889 million, of which $464 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $585 million or 66 percent of total commitments with the
U6bR providing the bulk ($208 million), followed by China ($149 million),
other Eastern European countries ($147 million), and Arab countries ($80
million). Multilateral aid amounted to $304 million including $224 million
from Arab Funds, and $77 million from IDA. The terms of all loans are highly
concessionary. In addition, PDRY has received about $170 million in grant
assistance during 1974/79, mostly from Arab countries.
20.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1979 were $10
million or 2.4 percent of total exchange earnings from exports of goods and
services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt service
obligations have started to rise and are projected to increase further in
future years. This will exert additional pressure on its balance of
payments. Therefore, in view of the above and the limited resources of the
country, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms.
For the same reason, local cost financing by IDA is justified.



-6-
21.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of all
the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds. In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial
Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute to audit the accounts of all the
nationalized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was
submitted to the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon
after with three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized
with three additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in late 1977,
early 1978, and in 1979 and with a development finance company in mid-1978.
Contacts with other former owners have been maintained with a view to reaching
mutually acceptable settlements.  Dialogue with debtors has, however, been
very slow since they have only recently responded to the Government's efforts
to settle claims. The Government professes its desire to reach a mutually
satisfactory solution with all claimant companies, and has expressed its
willingness to consider such settlement outside the terms of the 1969
Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the key
fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition, new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be
an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
23.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member of
IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. To date, IDA has had 15 operations in PDRY,2/ for a total commitment
1/ Part II is substantially the same as in the Presidents' Reports for the
Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project and the Third Highways
Project, which are to be considered by the Executive Directors on May 19.
2/ Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under Credits
560 and 1038.



- 7 -
of $84.2 million. Of this total, $20.3 million has assisted the transport
sector, $27.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $14.0 million the
power and energy sector, $9.4 million the education sector, and $13.2 million
the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY is characterized
by delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have
included the time required to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties
in recruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in attracting foreign
contractors, inexperience in project mobilization, and in recent years
shortages of both skilled and unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost
all cases being properly implemented even if delayed, and the difficulties
faced are mitigated to a considerable degree by the generally positive
attitude of the officials responsible for project implementation. Lessons
learned from experience in earlier projects are being taken into account in
our follow-up projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits
as of March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  An
agricultural development project in Wadi Beihan and a Third Highways project
will be presented to the Executive Directors in FY81. A second power project
is under preparation, as is a third fisheries project, a third education
project and a follow-up agricultural project in Wadi Hadramawt. Project
possibilities in health, industry and a second petroleum exploration project
are also under consideration. As in the recent past, the costs of future
projects are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can
provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other
development agencies to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From
FY71 through FY80, IDA has been successful in securing through its projects
about $78 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million;
Kuwait Fund $15.3 million; Arab Fund $34.2 million; Islamic Development Bank
$5.5 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16 million, OPEC Fund $3 million, and EEC $3
million), thus helping to increase the inflow of development aid to the
country.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
25.      Water is a scarce resource in PDRY which is located in one of the
world's most arid regions. The mean annual rainfall does not exceed 50 mm in
the country's coastal areas but is much higher in the interior. The land is
rugged, with sparse vegetation and few natural resources, and temperatures in
summer rise to 430C. The rate of evaporation is high and runoff is limited
even in the irrigated areas. The majority of the population lives in the
narrow coastal plain along the Gulf of Aden. Farther inland to the north, the
country becomes very mountainous, and beyond the mountains, flattens again to
form the high plateaux and the Northern Desert, which extend into the Yemen
Arab Republic and Saudi Arabia.



- 8 -
26.      PDRY relies essentially on underground water resources for its
supply, as few perennial water streams exist in the country. There are seven
major catchment areas which drain into eleven wadis of which the most
important are the Hadramawt with a drainage area of 23,300 km2, the Bana with
9,600 km2, and the Tuban with 5,000 km2. Since 1970 various studies of the
major groundwater aquifers have been made by FAO. The Association has
assisted in this area by financing a study of the underground water resources
in Wadi Hadramawt, as part of an agricultural project (Credit 615-YDR). This
study was completed at the end of 1979. The IDA financed Wadi Tuban
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 768-YDR) also includes a water
management study of the Wadi Tuban Aquifer which supplies water to Greater
Aden and irrigation works in the Tuban Delta. This study is expected to be
completed by May 1981.
27.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) manages all
water resources in the country. A national authority, the Public Water
Corporation (PWC), is responsible for the planning, design, construction and
operation of public water supply systems in PDRY. Because of the climatic
conditions and low and irregular rainfall, agriculture in PDRY is dependent on
irrigation with groundwater and seasonal floods. Given its objective of
bringing additional land under cultivation, the MAAR has concentrated its
ettorts on providing sufficient water for agricultural use. But the
increasing claims by the agricultural sector on the scarce groundwater has
resulted in declining quantity and quality available for urban use and in the
over-exploitation of the aquifers. This problem has reached serious
proportions in Wadi Tuban which supplies potable water to Greater Aden, and
which will be rapidly depleted unless effective measures are taken soon to
apportion the resources between urban and agricultural users. Recognizing
this problem, the Government set up in 1980 a Water Committee, whose functions
are to regulate the collection and allocation of water resources, and to
establish usage priorities. This Committee is made up of representatives of
the MAAR, the Ministry of Planning and PWC. The Association is assisting the
Committee in preparing a work agenda and a water code for the country.
Public Water Corporation
28.      The Public Water Corporation (PWC) was created in 1970 by Public Law
No. 19 to replace the Aden Water Authority. The latter was responsible for
providing public water supply services which at that time existed only in
Greater Aden and Al Mukalla. PWC is an autonomous public enterprise which
reports directly to the Prime Minister's office and functions as a commercial
undertaking. In addition to Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, PWC provides water
supply services in eight other locations which contribute less than 10 percent
of its revenues. A Board of eight members, chaired by the General Manager,
manages PWC's operations. Six members of the board are employees of PWC,
representing various departments, and two members are representatives of the
Ministries of Planning and of Finance. The Government exercises strict
control over PWC's activities. It appoints the General Manager and other
departmental chiefs and also approves PWC's operational budgets, investment
program, tariff levels and borrowings. As a result of a study carried out by
consultants financed under the Water Supply Engineering Credit (S-21 YDR),



- 9 -
certain revisions were made in PWC's organizational structure. PWC's
management has approved the revised structure which is being implemented
gradually, as staff for the proposed management positions are becoming
available.
29.      PWC has successfully implemented the Water Supply Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project (Credit S-21 YDR). All the studies included in
this project have been completed and have already resulted in the formulation
of the Greater Aden Water bupply Project (Credit 1038-YDR) and of the proposed
project. As part of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project, PWC is expected to
receive technical assistance for three years from three advisors to help
implement organizational recommendations. PWC has also increased tariffs in
Greater Aden to make the corporation financially viable. So far, the
implementation of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project has progressed
satisfactorily, although there has been a six-month delay in the appointment
of the advisors referred to above and in the start of procurement.
service Levels
30.      PDRY's estimated population of 1.8 million (mid-1978) is one-third
urban and two-thirds rural including nomads. Of the estimated 600,000 urban
population, almost half is concentrated in the Greater Aden area. The second
largest city, Al Mukalla, has a population of about 55,000. The remaining
urban population is distributed in cities with less than 20,000 people. Of
the approximately 1.2 million rural population, about half lives in scattered
places that are not large enough to warrant the installation of public water
supply and will have to continue to rely on individual water sources. Given
this population distribution, it appears that about two-thirds of the total
population comprising all those who live in urban areas and about half of
those in rural areas could be served by public water systems.
31.      Based on recent data provided by PWC, it is estimated that about 47
percent of the population that could be served by public systems already has
access to them. However, only 20 percent of the people served are supplied
through direct service lines. About 60 percent of the urban population but
only 20 percent of the rural population, is served by public systems. Most of
the population living in the centers of the towns provided with public water
supply have house connections; but supply through standpipes is very common in
the outskirts where the absence of sewerage makes individual service
undesirable.
32.      The current per capita consumption is very low due to supply
shortages and is inadequate for the harsh dry climate prevailing in PDRY. It
is estimated that the average bousehold in Al Mukalla consumes less than 9
m3/month (less than one-fourth of the average consumption observed in
countries with similar climate). The quality and safety of water served in
Greater Aden, Al Mukalla and the interior towns are considered acceptable.
The same cannot be said of the rural areas where open wells and ponds are
still being used for supply. Villagers living in remote areas must still
spend substantial time to reach the nearest watering point to fill a few goat
skins. Local People's Councils which report to the General Directorate for



- 10 -
Local Administration (GDLA) are responsible for providing basic services
including water supply to rural areas. With the assistance of PWC and the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Local Councils implement and operate a program of
well construction in the rural areas, aiming at progressively reducing the
distances travelled to fetch water. The UNDP has extended assistance for this
program by contributing to the installation of about 45 watering points in the
Northern Desert.
33.      Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes in PDRY are also
the responsibility of Local People's Councils, whose activities are oriented
and coordinated by GDLA. Only five of the eight towns forming Greater Aden
and small areas of Al Mukalla are at present sewered,and wastewaters in botb
Aden and Al Mukalla are now discharged without treatment in the harbors. The
population in other parts of the country uses septic tanks, dry pits, and in
some cases relies on night soil collection.
Public Health Levels and Services
34.      Present sanitary conditions in PDRY are poor.  Schistosomiasis,
enteritis and other diarrheal diseases appear to be major health problems.
About 65 percent of hospitalized patients are under treatment for waterborne
intections and parasitic diseases. Enteritis and other diarrheal diseases are
the leading cause of infant mortality. The incidence of gastro enteritis
accounts for 40 percent of reported health problems in the Hadramawt
Governorate, the capital of which is Al Mukalla, and 58 percent of the
reported diarrheal cases in the country. All these health problems, which are
particularly acute in Al Mukalla, seem to stem botb from the lack of basic
services such as adequate supply of piped water, appropriate refuse and
excreta disposal, proper drainage, and poor sanitary environment, and from the
poor health practices of the population. Health services are provided free by
the Ministry of Health, and at present are available to about 16 percent of
the population. This Ministry is assisted in promoting public health in the
country by four national organizations: the People's Defense Committee, the
Yemeni Women's Federation, the Yemeni Youth Committee, and the Yemeni Students
Union. A Health Education Unit was set up in 1977, but it lacks staff, funds
and equipment. In 1978 a permanent committee for health education was
established in Al Mukalla by the Governor of Hadramawt. This committee on
which the four national organizations referred to above are represented, is
chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Health.
Constraints to Sector Development
35.      The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint to an
accelerated development of the water supply sector. Because of lack of funds
and the obvious needs of the country, the Government has until now given
priority to the development of agriculture and transport infrastructure.
Between 1968 and 1978 investments in potable water supply amounted to only $14
million (about $9 per capita), and were mostly financed by government funds.
Moreover, PWC has not been able to generate funds from its operations to
finance its maintenance and expansion works, mainly because of both low
tariffs and the small percentage of population served outside Greater Aden.



- 11 -
The Government had in the past sought to charge low water rates, due to the
low income levels in the country and the social character of water supply
services. However, in January 1981 the average water tariff in Greater Aden
was increased from WO.16/m3 to $0.38/m3, which is expected to improve
PWC's financial position substantially.
36.       Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity of
convenient water sources, which are already extensively exploited for
agriculture. This situation is further compounded by the remote and
unfavorable location of the urban centers from the major aquifers. As
examples, Greater Aden is located at more than 50 kms from the Wadi Bana
Aquifer, a possible supply source for the metropolitan area. A potential
water source for Al M4ukalla is the Wadi Huwayrah Aquifer, though situated at
more than 30 kms from this city.
37.       A third constraint stems from the present population distribution in
the country. About 1.2 million people live in small towns and villages, for
which convenient water sources are difficult to find and high per capita
investments are required. The only two towns with sizeable populations are
Greater Aden (with 270,000 inhabitants) and Al MAukalla (with 55,000).
38.       Finally, a fourth issue related to the sector development is the
acute shortage of qualified management personnel and skilled labor. The staff
which presently manages PWC is young, inexperienced and insufficient in number
for the entire country. There are only five engineers in PWC and no graduate
accountants or administrators. Routine maintenance suffers severely from the
shortage of skilled labor. The technical assistance and staff training
components of the Greater Aden Water Supply Project (Credit 1038-YDR) are
designed to help PWC address these problems.
Sector Development Strategy and Program
39.       Given the urgent need to rehabilitate the water systems in the
country's two largest urban agglomerations, Greater Aden and Al Mukalla, the
Government gave them first priority and requested IDA's assistance. As a
first step, IDA provided a credit of $1.2 million (S-21 YDR) in June 1978 to
help finance a Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project,
whose objectives were to formulate a phased program of works to meet long-term
urban water needs in Greater Aden, Al Mukalla and Laboos. IDA also emphasized
the need for the Government to reorganize PWC and to plan more comprehensively
the use of the country's scarce water resources. The engineering project has
now been completed and the requested work programs established for the three
locations mentioned above.
40.       Based on the recommendations of the engineering study, a $39.2
million water supply project partly financed by IDA (Credit 1038-YDR) is under
implementation in the Greater Aden area,. The Government is now taking up the
improvement of the water supply systems under the proposed IDA financed
project in Al Mukalla and the improvem'ent of the sanitation system in Al
Mukalla with assistance from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
(AFESD). Concurrently with the realization of these projects, the Government



- 12 -
intends to make improvements in other towns and to pursue its program of well
construction in the rural areas, aiming at reducing the distances travelled to
fetch water. To meet the 1990 water demands, it is estimated that the
Government and PWC need to invest (in current prices) about $45.4 million in
water supply works in Greater Aden, $22.8 million in Al Mukalla and $8 million
in the remaining towns. These are indeed large investments for which external
financial assistance is needed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      The proposed development credit of $3.5 million would be the
Association's third operation in the sector. The project concept was first
discussed with the Ministry of Planning and PWC during a preparation mission
in June 1980 on the basis of a water supply master plan for Al Mukalla
prepared by consultants for the Government. The project was appraised in
November 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1981. The
Yemeni Delegation was headed by Mr. Al-Attas, Minister of Construction and
included representatives of PWC. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Al
Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project" (No. 3361a-YDR), dated April 24,
1981) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A map of
the project area and a layout of the proposed improvements and expansion of
the water distribution network are attached. Special conditions in the Credit
and Project Agreements are summarized in Annex III.
Project Concept and Objectives
42.      Al Mukalla is presently supplied with water from a well field at Wadi
Buwaysb, 15 km. to the north-east of the city. The present average production
of the well field is 60 1/sec, which is about 14 percent below the projected
1981 peak demand of 70 1/sec. Al Mukalla has no comprehensive sanitation
system and standards of health and public hygiene are now very low. In 1978,
a Government financed study recommended the installation of a waterborne sewer
system at an estimated cost of $33 million (in 1976 prices). However, the
Government has concluded that the envisaged investment is too high for a city
of Al Mukalla's size and that a further review of other feasible sanitation
alternatives is necessary. This review is being financed by the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFESD).
43.      The proposed project is designed to rehabilitate the existing water
supply system to meet Al Mukalla's water demands up to 1985 and to provide
detailed plans of new production facilities for the period to 1990. As part
of the proposed project, a health education program aiming at correcting the
population is present bad hygiene practices and at encouraging better use of
the water supply and sewerage services would be formulated and implemented.



- 13 -
Project Description
44.      The project would include the following components:
(i)    the construction and equipping of two production wells at Wadi
Buwaysh;
(ii)    improvement and expansion of the existing water distribution
network;
(iii)    the supply and installation of water meters, and the supply of
operational equipment such as leak detectors, hydraulic and
workshop tools, cranes, laboratory apparatuses and materials,
radio communication system, remote control system for
boreholes, and vehicles;
(iv)   hydrogeological studies and detailed design of infiltration
works;
(v)    drilling of four exploratory wells;
(vi)     the formulation and implementation of a public health
education program;
(vii)     consulting services for construction supervision; and
(viii)   study of urban growth patterns in the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah area.
45.      The objective of the proposed health education program is to
encourage the Al Mukalla population to change its attitudes and present
unsanitary practices and to develop awareness of the relationship of
waterborne and communicable diseases with unsafe sanitary practices. Under
this program, the existing health education unit in the Ministry of Health
(MOH) would be strengthened, and efforts would be made to reach the population
through radio and television programs highlighting the benefits of good health
practices. The existing health education curricula of schools and of the
Institute of Health and Manpower Development of the MOH would be revised, and
in-service training provided to teachers and health inspectors. Overseas
training would be provided for two staff in health education, behavioural
practices, and selection and evaluation of relevant educational aids.
46.      A study of urban growth patterns in the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah area is
needed to forecast the size and distribution of future population in Al
Mukalla and the surrounding areas. The population of Al Mukalla is growing at
approximately 3 percent a year and in the near future is likely to spill over
to adjacent areas, particularly Fuwwah. The study included in the proposed
project would provide an appropriate basis on which to plan the provision of
basic services in these areas.



- 14 -
Project Execution
47.      PWC would be responsible for execution of the works and the studies
included in parts i) through v) and vii) of the proposed project (see para.
44). To assist it in this task, PWC would employ, by March 31, 1982,
qualified engineering consultants, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (Project Agreement, Section 2.02). Because the water distribution system
in Al Mukalla has seriously deteriorated, the Prime Minister recently ordered
work to begin as soon as possible to achieve immediate improvements in the
water supply services in Al Mukalla. IDA would retroactively finance this
work (see para. 52). The Ministry of Construction (MOC) would be responsible
for carrying out the urban growth patterns study. The MOC would also be
assisted by qualified engineering consultants and experts who would be
appointed by March 31, 1982, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Development Credit Agreement Section 3.02). Because of the
urgent need to help determine the water supply of Fuwwah, a rapidly developing
new community near Al Mukalla, this study needs to be started immediately.
IDA would also retroactively finance this work (see para. 52). The health
education program would be executed by the Department of Preventive Medicine
(DPM) of the Ministry of Health (MOH), which would be assisted by a public
health expert, appointed by March 31, 1982, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
It is expected that all components of the project would be completed by
December 31, 1984.
Project Costs and Financing
48.      The total cost of the project, including $220,000 of retroactive
financing (see para. 52), but excluding duties and taxes which are not
applicable to development projects in PDRY, is estimated at $4.4 million, with
a foreign exchange component of $3.5 million or about 80 percent of the total
cost. It is based on November, 1980 prices. Major items of expenditures are
$2.1 million for equipment supply and improvement works; $0.8 million for
engineering studies; $0.2 million for the health education program; $0.1
million for construction supervision; $0.5 million for physical contingencies;
and $0.7 million for price escalation. An estimated 122 manmonths of
consulting services would be provided for the hydrogeological studies and
final design of the infiltration works, the study of urban growth patterns in
the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah area, the health education program and construction
supervision of the proposed works, at an average cost of $8,200 per manmonth,
including salaries, travel and subsistence. This is an appropriate average
cost for PDRY, given the mix of consultant firms and individual experts
required.
49.      The proposed IDA credit of $3.5 million would finance the project's
foreign exchange cost. The balance of $0.9 million representing the local
cost of the project would be financed by the Government.



- 15 -
Onlenaing Arrangements
50.      The Government would onlend $3.2 million of the proceeds of the
proposed credit to PWC for a term of 20 years including a five-year grace
period, and at an interest rate of 9.6 percent, to finance the foreign
exchange costs of the project items to be executed by PWC. The local cost
component of this portion of the project ($792,000) would be financed by a
Government equity contribution to PWC (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.01(c)).      The Government would also bear the foreign exchange risk of the
credit. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
PWC under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, its ratification by the
Government and PWC, and ratification of the Project Agreement by PWC would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Sections 6.01 and 6.02).
Procurement
51.      All contracts would be awarded following international competitive
3iuertg, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, except for the purchase of
materials and equipment, estimated to cost less than $18,000 eacb and
aggregating to not more than $0.5 million. The contract for the construction
of the two production wells was awarded on the basis of a negotiated contract
to the Irrigation Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, whose bid was 50
percent lower than any other quotation received from the lowest foreign
bidder. All other civil works would be grouped in a single contract, which it
is expected would be won by a local contractor. The materials and equipment
for the Al Mukalla water supply improvement program, including the leak
detection program, the education program and for the urban growth study would
be procured through quotations obtained from at least four suppliers in Bank
member countries and bwitzerland. Local bidders would be accorded a margin of
preference of 15 percent, or the prevailing customs duty whichever is lower
for equipment and materials procured under full international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Disbursement
52.      Disbursements from the credit proceeds would be made on the basis of
100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
materials, 64 percent of total expenditures for civil works and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for experts and consulting services. Retroactive
financing, for expenditures incurred after November 30, 1980, and in an amount
not exceeding $220,000 equivalent would be made for procurement of equipment
for two wells, and for consultant's services to assist the MOC with the urban
growth study for the Al Mukalla-Fuwwah area.
PWC's Finances, Tariffs and Future Performance
53.      PWC's financial performance during the last tbree years has been
poor. It recorded a net loss of $678,600 in 1978, which almost tripled in
1980. Its operating ratio (operating expenses including depreciation as a
percentage of total revenues) increased to 167 percent in 1980 from



- 16 -
129 percent in 1978. Although PWC operations in Greater Aden and Al Mukalla,
which accounted for 90 percent of total revenues, showed a cash surplus in
1980, this was not enough to cover the deficit of the remaining branches. At
the same time, payment collection particularly from government agencies, has
been slow. As of June 30, 1980 accounts receivable stood at seven months of
water sales. To lower receivables from private customers, PWC is
strengthening its collection procedures by disconnecting unpaid services more
rapidly. For government agencies, the Government has agreed under Credit
1038-YDR to ensure that beginning January 1, 1982, these agencies' receivables
will not exceed 90 days of billing.
54.      To improve PWC's financial situation, a new rate schedule and
increased tariffs were implemented in Greater Aden in January 1981, as a
covenanted obligation under Credit 1038-YDR. Under this agreement, PWC is
required to collect revenues sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance
costs including depreciation, interest (and to the extent not covered by
depreciation) amortization of its debts. This covenant is being repeated for
the proposed project (Project Agreement, Section 4.04). The Government has
agreed to take all the actions required on its part to enable PWC to meet this
financial obligation (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05). With its
present tariffs, PWC is expected to achieve a return of about 7 percent on its
net fixed assets in operation in 1981, a performance it is expected to be able
to maintain until the end of 1984. In 1985 PWC will start servicing its debts
and consequently will need to increase its consolidated average tariff to
$0.48/m3 from $0.36/m3, in order to maintain its financial performance.
55.      Under the existing agreement (1038-YDR), PWC is committed not to
incur any debt with a maturity greater than one year without IDA's agreement,
unless its net revenues, before depreciation and interest, are at least 1.2
times the maximum future annual debt service on the debt to be incurred and
existing debts. This commitment is being repeated under the proposed project
(Project Agreement, Section 4.03). Other technical and financial performance
indicators, satisfactory to IDA, relating to the efficient operation and
management of PWC would be monitored by PWC during project implementation and
tor five years thereafter, and appropriate actions, agreed between PWC and
IDA, taken to achieve an agreed level of performance (Project Agreement,
Section 3.02).
Environmental Impact of the Project
56.      The shortage of potable water, inadequate sanitation and poor
hygienic practices have resulted in an extremely harmful environment in Al
Mukalla. The proposed project would help to reduce the incidence of
waterborne diseases and improve living conditions in Al Mukalla. Public water
supply would be expanded in the lowest income areas of the city, resulting in
substantially improved sanitary conditions in these areas.



- 17 -
Benefits and Risks
57.      The overriding justification for the proposed project is the need to
provide Al Mukalla with an improved sanitary infrastructure. The many health
and environment benefits that the proposed project would generate, such as
reduced expenses for health care and workers' higher productivity, should
produce a high economic return on the proposed investments. However, these
benefits are difficult to quantify and a precise rate of return cannot be
calculated. If the projected revenues from increased water sales as a result
of the proposed project and sales maintained by halting the system's
deterioration are taken as a minimum measure of economic benefits, the
internal rate of return would be about 10 percent. In fact, using a discount
rate of 10 percent, the present tariff equals the long-run average incremental
cost of providing water supply services in Al Mukalla. Therefore the proposed
project is economically as well as socially justified.
58.      A sensitivity analysis of the return shows that it would be
moderately sensitive to increases in the capital investment. For a 10 percent
increase in the capital costs, the rate of return would decrease by about one
percent. Under the most pessimistic conditions, in which the investment costs
would increase by about 20 percent, the rate of return would be about 8
percent, which would be still acceptable considering the social character of
the project.
59.      The proposed project presents no special risks.  With the assistance
of engineering consultants, PWC should be able to supervise the project
execution properly and carry out the studies diligently. The Ministry of
Construction (MOC) would be assisted by an advisor who would provide the
necessary expertise for proper supervision of the studies under its
responsibility. The implementation of the health education program is also
not subject to any special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and PWC and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
bpecial conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Additional conditions of effectiveness include the execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Borrower and PWC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, its ratification by the Government and PWC, and the
ratification of the Project Agreement by PWC (Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 6.01 and 6.02).



- 18 -
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 11, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 19-                                          Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
YtEN PD1 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUEZT
R nit                              WREENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAOS
UIID A        (?llOUSAlrD 50.4K0l.)                                                   - IOST RECENT ESTI4ATE) 
0TAL      L     330M MDDML  INCOE
AGICULTURAL       93.3                               MOST RECENT           S0R AFRICA &          IED0L  INCOHE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMTE lb         .'IDDLE FAST      LATIN AMERICA   CARISEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (58)                   ..          ..    500.0         S        18.5                  1562.9
ENERGY CONStUPTION PP CAPITA
(UIWGAO S OP COAL ECVJIVAIZNT)    299.0       463.0    523.0                 545.0                 1055.9
POPULATION AND VtTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, RED-YEA  (HL.0NS)      1.3         1.5       1.8
UUA  POPULATION (PERCEN  0F TOAL) 28.0         32.1      34.3                 45.7                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIS
POPULAITION IN TEAR 2000 (MLIONS)                       3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (M1L0LN)                          6.0
YEA STATIONARY POPULATION IS 1AC51D                  2125
POPULATION DESIrY
PMR SQ. K0.                       4.0         4.5       5.'                 40.7                    28.:
PR SQ. KM. ACURCULtAL LUA        14.0        16.0      19.0                598.6                   81.7
POPULATION AG& STRUCTU  (PECENT)
0-14 YnS.                        45.3        44.1      46.7                 44.0                    41.4
15-64 YES.                        52.0        53.2      50.7                 52.5                   54.7
65 Yns. AIID ABOVE                 2.7         2.7       2.6                  3.5                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTS RATE (PEIGMET)
TOTAL                             1.9         1.9/c     1.9/c                2.6                     2.7
lIIRAN                            6.0         3.2       3.4                  4.5                    4.1
CRUDE 51TE R&ATE (PER 11SA0D)    54.0          54.0      48.0                 41.6                    34.8
CRUDO  DEUTH LATE (PU TH0USAND)    30.0        26.0      21.0                 13.7                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTIo  R                 ..         3.5       3.5                  2.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLI?NIC
ACCEPTYS , AUAL (TOUSAS)           ..          ..
USRs (PERC     F MARRIED WO)    ..             ..        ..                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INX  OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PU CAPITA (1969-11100)          100.0        92.0    103.0                  93.5                  106.9
PM CAPITA SUPPL OIP
CALOPRtS (PYENT 01
RZitUIRMUS)                    84.0        91.0      91.0                103.6                  107.4
P1OT1S1   (CGRtS PER DAY)        51.0        53.0      55.0                 69.8                   65.6
oF WCR AsImL iUID PULSX        18.0        16.0      18.0                 17.5                   33.7
CHILD (AMS 1-4) IMTSLTT  AE        54.0        38.0      31.0                 17.5                    8.4
HEALTI
I1.  EYECTAJCY AT BIRTH  TARS)   36.0          40.0      44.0                 54.4                   63.1
INFANTr MOTALITY RATE (PU   S     )  ..          ..        ..                  ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAF& WATER (PUCZNI Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      24.0                 62.5                   65.9
UWAN                               ..          ..      30.0                 82.9                   80.4
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0                 45.1                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (UCI
oF POPULATWON)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                  ..                    62.3
11N                                ..          ..        ..                  ..                    79.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                  ..                    29.6
POPUIATION PE  PHTSICIAZ             ..    32380.0   7411.0                 4688.7                 1849.2
PO!ULATION Pm  N ING PSON            ..          ..   1565.0                1751.5                 1227.5
POPULATION PU ROSPITAL 53D
TOTL                           1154.0       978.0    6S0.0                 635.5                  480.3
111                                ..          ..        .
AL                                 ..          ..        ...
ADKISStONS PMR HOSnTAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVUIAQ SIZ  Olf WOUSEbOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URIAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVIMAGR nDER Of PnRSON  PU  WON
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URSAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO tEUCTEICrIT (PERT
0f DWELLIGS )
TOTAL                              ..          ..      22.0/d
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       1.6..



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                 Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
lE:N  ltO  - SOCIAL L'DICATORS DATA SUET
YEI.M    PDE                       RUEERENCE GROUPS (WEIHCTED AVERAis
- N ST 2ZCE21S ESTIXATE) -
?NIDOLE IYC~t
.OSS RECENT          =TH AFRICA &            IDDLE INCOOM
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMIE /b l.       MDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA S CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENr RATIOS
PRInARY:    TOTAL                13.0        61.0      77.0                76.4                    99.7
MALE                20.0        96.0      99.0                92.2                   101.0
5.0       24.0      54.0                 59.9                   99.4
SECONDARY:  80TAL                 5.0        10.0     26.0                 33.3                    34.4
MALZ                 8.0        15.0      39.0                41.9                    33.5
PEMALE               2.0         4.0      13.0                24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (: OF SECONDARY)  5.0         3.0      2.0                  9.8                   38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRQRY                            29.0        31.0     30.0                 39.2                   30.5
SECONDARY                        21.0        20.0     73.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..          ..      27.1/.              39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCU CARS Pe3 TROUSA
POPULATION                        9.0         7.0      7.1                 15.3                   43.0
RADIO RZCZIVERS P?E TWOUSAND
POPULATION                       54.0        54.0     59.0                139.6                  245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        2.5        15.0     19.0                 29.0                   64.2
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GNRL
INTEREST-) CRCULATION PR
TOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         1.0       ..                 22.2                   63.3
CEMU ANNUAL ATTENDAE PER CATA   ..               .         ..                 2.8
LABOR FORCZ
IOrAL LABOR FOCE (THOUSANDS)      342.2      395.1    433.1
FEPALZ (PERCENT)                  4.2         4.8      5.0                  9.6                   22.2
AGRICULTUU (PERCENT)             70.0        64.7     60.0                 67.0                   37.1
iNDUSTRY (PERCET )               14.6       17.6      21.0                 23.8                   23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENr)
TOTAL                              28.2        27.6     26.6                 26.1                   31.5
XALZ                               53.4        51.5      *9.8                47.4                    48.9
FEMAIE                              2.3         2.7      2.7                  4.7                   14.0
ECONOMIC ItPENDECT RATIO              1.7        I.8       2.0                  1.9                    1.4
INCOME DISTISBUTION
PERCENT Or mIV   tNCQZ
RECEIVED By
RIGHEST 5 PERCMN  OFP OUSENOLDS    ..         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OIP OUSEOLDS    ..         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCEN  OF HOOSUOLDS     ..         ..
LOWEST 40 PERCNT O HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..
POVERTT TARGT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PU CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..                262.5
RURAL                              ..         ..    140.0                 140.4                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIE POVnT iNCo
LEVLL (U53 PU CAPTTA)
URBAN                               ..                90.0                202.1                  476.0
RuRAL                              ..         ..      87.0                122.2                  332.5
ESTIMTED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLDTE
POVERTY INCOM LSVEL (PErCZET)
URAN                               ..         ..        ..                 22.1
RURAL                              ..         ..      20.0                 33.1
Not available
got applicable.
NOTSZ
/a  The group averages for each indieator are popelatio{-eigbted arlthmetic man-.  Coverage of couteet-
among che indicators depends ou availability of das and Is not muoru.
/b  Unless othervwis  noted, data for 1960 refer to any pesr betv_ee  1959   d 1961; for 1970  bet    1969
and 1971; end for Most Recent Esiate.  eve  1974 sad 1978.
/c   Birth and deth rates are crude  tcimtee. Tre vAtural ratr  of iacrease does not agree witb observed
population growth rate; /d percent of population; /c age 10 years ad over.
4st recent estimat of (Mt per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1960.
October, 1960



ANIIE I
- 21 -                                                            Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL ItNDICATtOR
Notes; Alnh-0n the d-n  an draw   fro --m soures  enealc  jndged the nnt au-h-ntati- and rlliable. it should allc be noted that they may I   be inset-
natloo..illo cupable beas   f the lath uf  trunuodiled dfotioiIn  and o--opte ned by differet  ..oanseIo  In  -o1lettog  the date..Tedt   r,sie
theles-. useful to descibe orders 0finotd .dio-taf  treds, and tharuot.r.e certIn eu3- dof f_re_e  betneen                            t c ilele.
The  efetere  noup  are(1)  he nae  nutr  go-f of tha subjectt.. tuty mad (2) acutry group  ilth somehat higher arrae ote thee the   -stry granp
atte  ajesnotttrcp  fuECoIo0trpo   01 tn0uters   K-up wher  'MIddle I'ol- Nrth1 lfoloa and Mlddle last' Is oh..em  b--us  of streoge
anl-tanrlaflll                nthe rofern-  nrou  dat- theaeae   c   ouelu    eotdothet  mean  tar eac1htOicator and eh-m  only sehaa
lat bal f of thecnre   Inn  group ho- dIar  foe that   ndloanor.  Since the  -ootruge  f --1orlr  amon  the indlonr   eed  noseaslalye
data and Is not u.ifon.-cu,        unn   eoecnot  rltn    ttgno   n   olctrnooo.                                   eeaear  areionly aeefmI 'ha oe.pisgbthl Cf
of on  Indcato  at ater   o -gtIeOutyndt febnc  oroope.                             .      t   .t-,Tl            ..g       .   l    :.   .-.ir   h 
LAND0 AnREA (thon-audfs.bk-n.fnn.atc   etl,I PhO",ollo  I'plaln                                                                          btls     y      Iames   nO  oatIrim  ploy-
Ttl-Tonal sot c  ae  oaolog  ad ure  aud Itluod o.nors.oan   qualfIe  from  A medloll school al uaLvee.. it                                             el.
harloltuoa  - lnneut  of anlyusuca2  are g-l.ne    eccroto   enttLo              FPo1nulalionr  Nran  Fro- foPalatio  dieided hy mte   fpano
.:tk:               lil f.Ll-p; M17d,-              --~Poolatid per. On-lta Ned- tota.-aha.1adraa -d  . Psmltl-totl
L~INt F1 dPT b  tyll--ho-   I,er   laln Wnouttattroo  norlek  trocos, c7l           -              o,an  rural)  .dldd by theI  rsgenlv  M .se  ethoptitl  ho."
toLane d by97m9drcrount         eho  a  odIodta(97-79 baa JI); l9ll,                          availabl  In publIc aed priIvte oomeel  satd speriellasd h..pits  sd em-
1971, mad  lOObdala.  ~~                  ~             ~hbhilint.ien centers ..hopitals are  bsalishmete  emasn                                Wtaffe
ENERGY CONSLO ~~~TIONPER C,~~21TA - Al. ~by a  least one obyatolan.  Issahi.hai .ets OtoidlgO pehmioeva.li  _mtdlal
111100 iOOltftTOO FN CadTh -      """'a conpIeufomeooeery(al                          te aten7on   laolded         nabatas  botee, imllnds health amA   dies
aed ligone  yetrlou     Pa.a   e  ndhdo, -natcl19at and7eotheed  clot-                         eorsonpmaonynfed hy aphysirtam  (bnt by I medeal aseht-t.
dteliy    ellgoao   na   1laetprtyn;  90   Ot   o   9hinditf, ltt.) whih offe Is-patient attOla.tim  smd gem,id. a
deco.                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Imited  -ago of medi_s1 fatt'tie.. F tosttisti el p.rposas sets  hmpi-
PIttT.ATiIo 0011 11002. JICATItfIICtI  t  .t1  ..itl--d-d-1-d-t-i3lt-Q-
dntulPplaln     ytdTo   nllr)-h   fJl  1; 196hi  197U, and 19ff                            Admsissoo  to  ONsoialne  - Ttoed  omb Irfadmisetm. to  -t dlefh-ges
dots.Rt                                            ftb        .t . 1ppI.j;fro  h ltl  divIded fbzy the  amheo of beds.
different defilitio- of -rbot -oeoa  ny:I afet copocallity of data                     HOKfblIG
aogoaIteleo; 1060, 19 71,nd17 oa                                                     Atee-g Silee of H.mbl...         so   e   aneod     tnl  ea. sdsel
Popnianton Prof actIons-p   -1i-    . b.. d                           160           A house hold cesst   f aIgenp of IidividmaI mhe sh-.e livia   qal.rtse
tonal poutlno by age and se  end their -mo1tyfn   and                                     thttlyoen.l houa-od Ifrsnoat        ..opoa...
Pr           E_cn    pat.mete. for nrltity eaten conynine on thna Ienlo00              Aveag  oumbr of Peron  Pee room - total, b- ura .ad esee  - A-eeS.e~
log lIfe  -tteo-ny at bIrth Iro.ea. lo.g  with onr'   e  ctt   on                         e  of....rsoss yen to-  Ic all1urba   and e..a.  ornpld C-memilma
tenets don feenhlity cote ula  hov  .he ..Ie.s aounig dsl1ioe It                 u _topied pnone.
f-tnlilty ac..ordiog to I hoom  leoe  and  ..5  tmally PI..nlog pefA-.e uno  no Elottrcti                       (tereto   eligl-sae,aOe   m   ma 
Eac h noatty Is then assigned one of the. anIte  -bi,Antins of motality                   boonl ld-elieg  w ith eletteicity In livtgqate   spreng
and feeniliny tr-da for crojootim Iupotof tntal, u-hn, nod ruea  dmelllngse_p-rnively
AtaniInIary             -aaain-oaaio...ry pucuatino thete in no grownh since
the btrob rol  la 0001 ttodah            easanalothe  gestuctrere
mann  conian.  Tha I  anbnna  onl  afer frtiitytone  denioeno                    ATINtetuolntRin
the  -eplae-o   leve  of uIit non repr,dnonino tat, ohen  -ho geerttion                   Piaysho-    otl   aeadfsl  - I stotal, mals  -di fss1m
ofe 'erPloo  i-slI soanttly.The   . si_ttOO  Rynpulai.    -                  tlaseoserln   of oil ofeeAt the petissey leve  as P-eetgeofeaot
smilane  notheboe I a  the ProJe-ned oSeotrnlto h            e ypu-t-i                 ttor -shoo-neypu f-t.nealytelde                       .bide   age  6-l.ti
,ohe yem  2000,ad ihecan  of decIne, If tE-tility ra.te                 I                                ,      I .it  il1   no, replant-  yorshu  odjusned (onI%. dlfet, looly o i-fasry hidaessm    fan
aeon t  . lvly~PPli     l     td-T~"lh.                                                      coutries nith nnera   donoton ti            les  e-y esned 100.Pteesm
Tear anatinnart cogeulnino in reauhed - The een oboe onationary tpulatico   mince soo  ppils ac  bale or aho   the offitia1 ethoI et.
also has hee.mne..nled.                                                                   he....dary och,-l - tonl. male sad female- Comosd as shoe; sateadme
eduaionreuies  t  oa tney-ar  of eppeoved pefasey istrsetem;
Pe ks.In. - Mid-year potuintion  enl nouan   l-lrt-r 7100hetr)of                          p-oide-gotl,octnal   rtane   rllm   snntfoms fee pssplh
total ores.                                                          usno~~~~~l1ly of 12 to 1  yet  o   ge   nnepoadem     toans... see ge-nlIly
Pe  a.kh. ACniulnrotla             d -          bopumdasshv  fon  grcusuallad                e_tld.d.
Peolatne   e Sruoare(reoes) -Children  (0-14 years), marhiog-age 911-                 inld    etta,  euoil   rohe   eoem   slh operate iadpm-
h4 year), and retired (60 years aed oven IAs p-nneonot  of sid-yean ypuP-                     deotly or usdpanteeets of so-odnrYintttme
lation; 1960, 1970, cod 1979 dan.                                                           Fyiteho   at      ninn.ad    odn                    Ttonl enadesn  soreled ia
yese popalatiom   for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                          notsodlglvl.1
Poonlanlon   rneth tate  oercest) -  ohot - ens gl-goth rates at urban pIIu-    Adamt  ilte yo rat  foerIS et) - Litertel  adults (shis no esd sa  -trIt)
Istitn   for  Oll-h. 192-fl,mad 170-7.                                                I    I_0 pern tnaeo  fetal adult  euan       ged 11 ymns sod ovee.
Ceud  Ninh Rts  poe  houand  A  -haua Iline bieohs yet thonsend of ald-yeao
popalatJo; 1960, 1970, nod 1979 data.                                                   CONSUMTIftON
mod  teohOat  (rt  h.u.a.. d- Annua  deahs per tho....ad of aid-yea.aene.aolelhosa   onaio       asegrnn   episaa
popI.atioo; 190, 1970, sod 1970 dan.                                                        oar  seatlog itac  th..t eght Pee...s; enladee sl..hlms,ssee 55d
leoselspeoulnln  tnat-dveAl.ge nnhoe ofdaughneoaanoo-   will beat Imilitary  -heblolI
till iy rob; uualy five-yerIonae  edtno in 19h0, 1970, and 197                              Irncaot   eealybi   e   hnod of  pep1lJti.;  mladesam
Penil  Plaenon-uceporn,  ecanl hn..o.ndn) - ouA-1  . ouboro  acptr                    teodceIneIn oonisad 10ygs-  hb..egeesi                               f nadig  e
of birnh-ooatrl1 d-nico   odot auspiIce  of outio..al f-nly                                      IIoiapuos. ant  effect  deta for recentI yes   myntbhe  -op-bale eima  meet
Pantly nlaoaos-lmeea  leeoent of  oeindnoe)-Fcoseof oaotdcunneshlbd  licesIng.
almrid wmnin  0   age gruaP.                                                          gnrl pabiI  por tb..sad pepulati; I           nI ude  noltososad    "elstse
tOOt AND NnTRI1IO0N                                                                           bmprnfouaie(e  hnodpplto)-iosteaesaena
inde  of pond PFroduolon. Ill C-nita (1969-01ll  - Indeto   e   uhi.oui                       no f P.   .~     -.  'diygnratoeet  espp    df hood a    pee,idital polo
prodannIIno   l I    nd Itnoitln.  Prodnoioenla                 ee   n  feod od.tcnnndeoe  priaiy  ea -teooiggnrlom.I   5nmi
Is no calendar yea  hasis.Ciaadit ins  --v  peilay goods (e.g. augarna.e                    no be "dully" if in appoars on leas.t tone tImes  seesh
iostead of sugar) ohth a-  edible codconietiet  (e.g. cotfte  and                         Ci..ma Aoua  AtnnsYe aiapeTa-fate...d a0 tha  nbshm  at
tea aee eniuded) . Aggrega  te "' ...ut . of each country Os buse d onncemal  during nhe year,  -inoldiog emas ato deiv-it li,-.
,a:oalargoprdue  p            -ie hnlht; 19161-61, 19,00,sd 1970 dan.tnd   oIl nie
Pe Imnt   uplr on talotiesll  on   freutnes              Computed frye
eoegy equivaeon of net foo  npt io-vilbeIno ny per capita                            LAOR FORCE
p_ day.  Avatlable supplien  c-Prfse domeotic producti-t. Inyots Lent                   Tonal Labo- Force ~(chousa.d) - E....oIn-11Y oive p-eoo, i.In inetg
-P yot, and oh,,,,.  In utch   Net -upplien   ,,c tde nI'IIlIfeed, seeds,                 are   ecnad_o_           lvdbtecldnLoswvs.saet,en
quIiieao    infn    rcsig   s   esnI   intuio    eut-                            Dcntia to ret lows cooel               .r non  -p-besle; 1900, 1970 sad
ensa  -e  estimated by PAt hosedonphyatolaginal neods fee  -oma  otti-                    1979 data.
"Is  and health nonsid-1n.enrenna  nnsotr,body -iaghts, 0g5                            reFe.erc ) - tmL. Ishor OnroesP-.. p                 tange of ltona  tab.e goons.
mo.  aIo dnstnlunin of poyaleien, se  eleing 10 porten.t torwassenIt                    aiutre(rot)-Labor froe It fnesiog, te..atry, hmniog sad
ioseed levl; 1901-h5, 1970,cd1977 daa                                                 fi.hiog a  yretoof nerd1 lhae fet-e  19600. 19ff an  1970 dent.
Per capita eantly of erateio     (rmspe  dy  - Protein  -nalet of pee .n.Pita              ndunrv Ifret)  L.b.lao  f in  i  miin,  om tensoe   mofantniag
oet supply It fond peedy         etsplHf-        odt   Idt da  abov.  Re                  ad elannrdity, etradgesoperost.ge of tonal labo  f.e..   19h0.
qaleeets .ora         l ncties  o      iabhmbd by liOn provide toe otimu                  190of1 79da.
all nact  of h0 gram   of ntal protein Pee day sod 20 grsn  o f unsace  sad             Part97iration OAtsCeoo -ttl   ae   n   eae-Pehiatm0
plepeoneis, of ehich 10 groan  should be anImal protein. the   stod-                  atlvty  rates ore n0ap-     astaot .mle  and femal  lehee Pots_
-ndarlInen  than those of 75 grno of total protein and 21 groo   of                  Iefeogee  ttol, male and femal  populanieto   lingsrapehey
aetma,l orotai  as an -voag  tar tho e-ld, propose.d by PAO In the Third                  lh,  90 d P        Nl dta.Teene   1'  psrtttipstin rat.e refleetiag
Onld ed   Nurvy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dan.t...1                                                             95d    .,h-A 10
Peenoln  ponse  uplyfrm mlml ndpule    PotInsuplyoffod d-          gome    _ruoor  efte ppuatonpad long tIme tread.  A fet esni-
etedfomaiml oo nasIn ge-a  per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dtona.. taad   eedenn  Rati  -  atie of populotim  -adse 15 and 65 so.fe
Childses-A Motlity   atL            (erthuaod  - uooua1 deaths per thans'ld in                 otetoa           o  forte.
age grnnp 1-4 years. no  hbild-en is, thin age group; for mass devlaynnp        oeao
teiss d-na d-itvd Or-  lis. tahies; 19h0, 1970 ced 1970 d.ta.                           INCOME DISTRIBUJTION
Perentge  f Plnts onoe Iothtease  en  hid)-  Rm..ived hy eibhet
mNAITO                                                                                           0  ecn,tret2   ens,pnst7   ena.sd pomeses A0 ploret
Lit, Epnoetoony On t_Irth (Ynaes  - Average nube  of Year  of life tealint.                   of hbo..eholda.
ILatet Moetol1ity Rats (ten~ the-snd  - A .n.oI deaths of infants udee one yea    POVERTY TARET GtROUPS
of ao  Per thousan  liv I.bIrhsEntimated AauePven-                                                                       Itm  leel(0$  er           lts)    ehso and meal-
Art.ss.   Nat Onner.t   (-ennen -      vlain)Ib00,  na, end rural - 0.                        AsltpeoninsooelIs thot ti-me  eva  hat  fit  5mia
fube   f PeoPle (total, urbAn,ad  ual   inrasmblaoesost                                 Inrnn            dqaedispu   seta   o-fond rqlesmmn  is aet
eaermpply (inlndeetenm    ataeae teestOr u trend hut -untotastoand                      offitedebllyAe.       ..dlt  l:
eateesnobas tan frm prtertd berheln, slinga, ad s..it.ry .eIo) as             fttae   lltv   oet   soeLevel (tIN pe  esoina  - arlosa sad-orj 
peetetagen of ihair repcIv  RPeplto                Inaonr-eb re a.  puhlioua  rlativepvryinm  lvlius-hrofnegePer taplte
Onotl  or adotlcnd st eos  ba  200 esters, frm ,                     oue  a  be             ptrnool itoton   of nflelo...tey.  urho leve  t. dennod team the  _ea
do no  hnv  to spenId  ia  l dprpeih atoaho   h   a   nnthn the                          ma d eurol -I Perith   of papu-latin    t (uba  endtO eos1  cbo seI a iaspo"
d    inohlutds.. th   diallattl i a.d dlspesaIf tthb  ory aIna trtehnasno.i                                     One-oes.i.t.  MOalel  as4 roanimaNh        st
posnimay                                                               dtohe-lIg
of  imyAn  measd wsemnrbwae-oosssso   hneo
pin Neiviss cod efilso itafalletiens.



- 22-                                ATNEX I
Page  4 of 5 pages
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1979
US$ mln 
GNP at market prices                              934         100
Gross Domestic Investment                         195          21
Gross National Savings                            143          15
Export of goods and NFS                            79           8       Annual Rate of Growth (%)
Imports of goods and NFS                          456          49            (constant prices)
1974/79
GDP at factor cost                                555         100                    9
of which:
Agriculture                                     47           9                    0
Fisheries                                       32           6                   -9
Industry                                        81          14                   11
Construction                                    70          12                   32
Transport                                       83          16                   16
Government                                     125          23                   15
Other Services                                 117          21                    0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                             Preliminary
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)                      1974/75      1975.1/       1976        1977         1978        1979
Total receipts 2/                               23.6        16.9           32.1        43.4         56.0        64.6
Current expenditures                            27.6        25.6           39.2        47.4         61.4        71.7
Current deficit                                 -4.0        -8.7           -7.1        -4.0         -5.4        -7.1
Development expenditures                        19.6        18.9           39.2        57.3         59.7        52.0
Overall deficit                                -23.6       -27.6          -46.3       -61.3        -65.1       -59.1
Borrowing from Banking System                   10.4        12.5           15.6        18.5         13.2        26.6
External Financinig                             13.2        15.1           30.7        42.8         51.9        32.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1974        1975              1976      1977        1978         1979
Y.D. million, end period
Money and quasi-money                           55          67             98         140          168         217
Bank credit to Government                       24          37             62          72           87         110
Bank credit to non-Government Sector3/          19          24             31          49           59          61
Increase in 2
Consumer prices                                 24          12              4           5            6           6
1/    The fiscal year was April 1 - March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became
April I - December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
2/    Includes current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of puolic enterprises.



ANNEX I
-23 -                        Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million) 1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Exports!/                              8        8       26       24      17       20
Imports./                           -190    -178    -268    -365    -386    -411
Traue Deficit                       -182    -170    -242    -341    -369    -391
Non-tactor Services, net              22       14       20       10      17       14
Factor Services, net                  48       62      126     195      266      325
Workers' Remittances              (41)    (59)   (120)   (188)   (258)   (314)
Investment Income                  (7)      (3)     (6)      (7)      (8)    (11)
Current Account Deficit             -112      -94      -96    -136      -86      -52
Official Transfers                     1       10       46      55       36       23
Otficial M and LT Capital, net        65       49       73      70       94       59
Gross Disbursements               (65)    (50)    (75)    (71)    (95)    (64)
Repayments                         (O)    (-1)    (-2)    (-1)    (-1)    (-5)
Miscellaneous (incl. E and 0)         38       22        4      29       45       -8
Changes in Official Reserves
(- = increase)                      8      13      -27      -18     -89      -22
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year) 67          54       81      99      188      210
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                  Average 1978-79
US$ Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                               9       47
Agricultural Products                                8       42
Other                                                2       11
1F9    100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1980)                US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                   889
of which:  Disbursed                             464
Debt bervice Payments in 1979                       10
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods
and bervices, Including Remittances)               2.4 Percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971       As of December 1971   From February, 1973 to date
US$1.00 = YD 0.42            US$1.00 = YD 0.38              US$1.00 = 0.34
YD 1.00 = US$2.40            YD 1.00 = US$2.61              YD 1.00 = US$2.90
1/ Net of re-exports.
EMlDD
April 27, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX II 1/
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1981)
-   Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                               (less cancellations)
No.           Year    Borrower        Purpose                      IDA       Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed                                         5.1
370-1 YDR       1973       PDRY      Fisheries                      1.6              .03
494-  YDR       1975       PDRY      Education I                    5.4            0.8
560-  YDR       1975       PDRY      Highways II                   15.5            1.4
584-  YDR       1976       PDRY      Aden Port Rehabilitation    3.2               0.9
615-  YDR       1976       PDRY      Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0               1.3
768-  YDR       1978       PDRY      Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj         5.2            3.9
829-  YDR       1978       PDRY      Power                          5.0            3.5
865-  YDR       1978       PDRY      Education II                   4.0            4.0
932-  YDR       1979       PDRY      Fisheries II                  10.0           10.0
1038- YDR       1980       PDRY      Aden Water Supply             13.2           12.4
1050- YDR       1980       PDRY      Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0               8.9
Total                                   84.22/         47.13
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                   84.2
Total undisbursed                                      47.13
NOTE:  Exchange adjustment not included.
1/    This Annex is identical to those in the Presidents' Reports
for the Third Highways and the Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development
Projects, to be considered by the Board of Executive Directors on May 19.
2/    Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under
Credits 560 and 1038.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
CR. No. 370-YDR       Fisheries Project;  $3.5 million Credit of April 12,
1973; Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6
million Supplementary Credit of February 6, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is now nearing completion. The major component, the fish
cold store and freezing facility at Mukalla became operational, after a
two-year delay, in June 1978. The delay was primarily due to the difficulties
encountered in finding a suitable project manager and cost overruns requiring
supplemental financing, which was approved by the Association in January
1975. The smaller receiving station at Shibr is now fully operational, and
the 100 fishing vessels financed under the credit have all been delivered.
CR. No. 494-YDR       Education I Project:  $5.4 million Credit Approved July
12, 1974; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit is assisting the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and in meeting priority manpower
needs. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but is about two years
behind appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit
effective and in the negotiations oL contracts with UNESCO and the consultant
architects; (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting
design completion; and (iii) shortages of labor and materials which have
delayed construction. Five of the ten institutions, including two previously
completed extensions, were ready for the 1980-81 academic year. The remaining
institutions are expected to be completed by mid 1981. About 95 percent of
the equipment has been received, and together with furniture, is being
delivered and installed in project institutions as they are completed. To
permit final disbursements for construction and to allow the technical
assistance program to operate using credit funds, the Closing Date has been
extended to December 31, 1981.
CR. No. 560-YDR       Second Highway Project;  $15.5 million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Econo-
Development. Since international competitive bidding for the construction
element of the project produced no responsible bids, arrangements were made
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which is
assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the project
area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of domestic
skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction
equipment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about three years behind appraisal estimates. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 60 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 25
percent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of
rock that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works
needed because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction
equipment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have
been procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic
studies and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan roads. Consultants
(Sotechni-Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the
overseas training program has been completed with six Yemeni engineers having
completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany).
The project is expected to be completed by December 1982.
CR. No. 584-YDR       Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  $3.2 million Credit-of
September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3,
1976; Closing Date; March 31, 1982
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is assisting the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-
handling, workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabili-
tation of the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical
assistance. All equipment except some navigational items have been received
and most are already in use, although there has been a substantial delay in
the rehabilitation of the. slipway. A cost accountant and a marine engineer
have been appointed. There was a savings of $850,000 in the purchase of
floating craft and IDA has agreed that this can be used to purchase containers
handling equipment required for the port.
CR. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project;  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
for a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
The date packing plant has been completed, the rural road component is
progressing satisfactorily, but the pace of village water supply works has
been slow. The hydrogeological survey and feasibility study have since been
completed and form the basis for a second phase project aiming at intensi-
fication of irrigation on about 3,700 ha.
Initial problems, with staff recruitment and retention, delayed
execution of the project by about two years. High cost of labor, inefficient
tractor services, marketing restrictions, and pricing policy of the agricul-
tural produce have been impediments to increased production. Government has
recently taken steps to improve its agricultural pricing and subsidy policy,
and has also contracted a consultant's study (financed under Credit No. 768-
YDR/Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project) on agricultural prices, taxation and
subsidy with as view to improving these policies. The increased availability
of the agricultural machinery purchased under the project and improvement in
pricing and marketing policy of the agricultural produce would assist in
achieving the project's objectives.
CR. No. 768-YDR       Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:  US$5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on cooperatives
and state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved practices and the
construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network. Inputs and farm
machinery are to be provided through credit. An expatriate project manager is
under recruitment but all other technical assistance staff is now on post. A
water management study is nearing completion and an agricultural prices,
taxation and subsidy policy study is underway. Construction of a village
water supply scheme is well advanced and survey work for feeder roads was
started. The Arab Fund, which cofinances this project, approved its loan of
$6.1 million in February 1980. With a total area of 7,000 ha, the project has
36,000 principal beneficiaries, while the water supply scheme would benefit
about 6,000 persons.
CR. No. 829-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks.
Institution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants'
services for a tariff study, and a power development study. Soil testing of
the project site has been completed, the contract for equipment and materials
has been awarded and erection of the plant, although one year behind schedule
because of skilled manpower shortages, is underway. The tariff study is
completed and discussions with Government on implementation of its
recommendations as well as on the power company's manpower development program
are at an advanced stage.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
CR. No. 865-YDR       Education II Project:  $4.0 million Credit Approved
December 14, 1978;  Effectiveness Date:  June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in establishing three
vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgently needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Arrangements for fellowships to be financed from
bilateral funds have been completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in
Mukalla started in June 1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate
due to delays in designs and tender, and is now expected to be completed in
Summer 1982. With IDA's approval, two existing schools are being converted
into agricultural and industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs.
These conversions should be completed by mid-1982. Furniture and equipment
are under acquisition. Satisfactory curricula have been developed.
CR. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist the Ministry of Fish Wealth in fleet
management, cold store operations and export marketing; and a national study
to assess nutritional deficiencies for a possible future IDA-financed
project. Bids were invited for the construction of the port and related shore
facilities, were opened on April 7 and are now being evaluated. Construction
is expected to get underway within the next 6 months.   The Government has
appointed the project manager, who is a well qualified individual.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
CR. No. 1038-YDR      Aden Water Supply Project;  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing
Date; December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1050-YDR      Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning of
the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration
Department's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and
(b) technical assistance to PED for project management services, data
evaluation to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training
of PED's staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently
attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. Initial
implementation proceeding satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Project first presented to IDA:                  June 1980
(b)      Time taken by PDRY to prepare                    Six months (June 1980
the project:                                    through November 1980)
(c)      Agency wbich prepared the project:              Public Water Corporation
(Pwc)
(d)      First IDA mission to review project:            June 1980
(e)      Departure of Appraisal Mission:                 November 1980
(f)      Completion of negotiations:                     April 1981
(g)      Planned date of effectiveness;                  By December 1981
section II:  bpecial IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and PWC under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para. 50);
(b)   ratification of the Project Agreement by PWC (para. 50); and
(c)   ratification of the subsidiary loan agreement by the Government
and PWC (para. 50).
2.       Other Conditions
(a)   The Government has agreed that it would take all the actions
required on its part to enable PWC to meet its financial
obligations under the Project Agreement (para. 54);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(b)   As a minimum financial performance, PWC has agreed to collect
revenues sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance
costs including depreciation, interest and (to the extent not
covered by depreciation) amortization of its debts (para. 54);
and
(c)   PWC has agreed not to incur any debt witb a maturity greater
than one year without IDA's agreement, unless its net revenues,
before depreciation and interest, are at least 1.2 times the
maximum future annual debt service on the debt to be incurred
and existing debts (para. 55).






IBRD  15565
TURKEY                                                          4   \  USSR  46                 48                            500                               52                          FEBRUARY 1981
IARA   A t
,4',\ BAD    IRAN                                             PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF  YEMEN                                                                                                     20-
-NUTRAL ZONE'- -                  AL MUKALLA WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION AND SANITATION  PROJECT
I'SAUDI ARABIA
Project   Location
/  05 ~~~~ E(~~  ~~4E SE        0 ~~50                      100           150                              P
r TIDIMILES                                                                                                                       /     ~       '   
0       50       100       150      200      250,o/',-                                  //      7
KILOMETERS                                                    7/~~K~7~;    
MM/                                                        OMAN
CbS
ARAB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POETAE
Al A                                                                              f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WJ TAREACK
INTER14AT(OEAtAIRPORT
.........  W NdRATIE OUNDARIES
tI0E01 TATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TOUB   '8Z'~   Moch_   .    X                                                           I,j;'''/',''   '<':,,';.                                               '-" 2   0' MTER
mUO 00000R U:0,B,UK.R                                             5,ow-/Fc~(                                                                'OR e   -      _                   l
0,,eeee UO,of ,oOUUt  -- A= _Yde    050.=00t 






________________________                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  15175
U S S R                                                                                                                             5D                                                                              AUGUST  1980
TURKE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ISRAE_Q/ IRAQ. IRANT                                          IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS  BY SECTOR                                                                                                                                                                       2-
ZNE.T'                                                                     PROJECTS
A R      NEUT SAU;e                         -PR    
AARABIA 
ji~~~~~~ BAHR               IN                                 C        AgricHirilTer                                                                                                                                  
-.                   _ ARARIA          ;: -             ~Petroleum   Explorat,on  Assist-nce
SUDAN                  1                                                      A       Ed,cafio,,
6   ARABIAN  SEA                                          ~~~~~~~H,gh"eys
TH                                                              *       Power Stat,ons
Transmisson Lnes                                                                                                                                  c       Mt      A   N
U   Water  So,ppiy
4       Port Deoelopment
PROJECT                      YEAR APPROVEO
HIGHWAYS I                         1971
FISHERIES I                        1973                                                                                                                                                           A-GOHAYDAFH
16'                        EDUCATION 1                        1975
HIGHWAYS II                        1975
ADIEN PORT REHIARILITATION         1976
WADI HADRAMOUTAGRICULTURE          1076
WADITUBAN AGRICULTURE              1070
WADI HADRAMOUT POWER               1070
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING Ti        1978
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EDUCATION 15                       1970ITNGFATRS
PETRO LEUM DEVELOPMENT             1000                                                                                                                                               01        Govemrnarte Capitols
ASSISTANCE                               eh                                                                                                  ihNational Capital
HORN WATER SRPPLY                  1980
AF  HEUL B0  Sn '  . , . W ERives and Wadisl
. F'.4'<.'S 200                                                                                                                                                                     lV;   ;  \:\:2*:  - Prima,y Roads
Secondary Roads
Go|errr-note Boundarie|
I~~~~~i                                                         INIA C'U.'                                    Of, ADFN'''-C'                                                                                -'- 
ih 00 A00HnolE Os         0                     200s,nsoirtAOn0 
Ke,,,F,                                                                                                                                    K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ET sfs  ft.~s.   .A  I OMEESAis  5450A0Hdd
A    D  N                                           ~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FMd*r. 0Y/BOOSS Oi 05SOiiI.  5r#d iSa..V0055ins0H.nO5055 ,. A0inl pndrsW,AOs



