CREDIT NUMBER 1159 YDR
OFFICIAL~
DOCUIMENTS
Project Agreement
(Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION
Dated       3           o         ,1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1159 YDR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        2xQ        o 7        , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAT N (hereinafter called the
Association) and PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION (hereinafter called
PWC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that PWC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PWC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to PWC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS PWC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development'Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PWC shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist PWC in carrying out Part A
of the Project, PWC shall employ, by March 31, 1982, engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works under Part A of
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PWC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PWC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PWC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PWC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.
(b) PWC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the said Part of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the said Part of the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the said Part of Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures


﻿-3-
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by PWC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PWC and
the Association, PWC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the said Part of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by PWC and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) PWC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment related to the Project and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. PWC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PWC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PWC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) PWC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by PWC of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PWC
Section 3.01. PWC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate financial,
administrative and engineering practices and under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by adequate and
competent staff.
Section 3.02. PWC shall: (a) introduce and maintain opera-
tional procedures adequate to monitor, in accordance with indica-
tors satisfactory to the Association, the achievement of PWC's
operational and financial objectives;
(b) provide the Association with quarterly reports during
the period of Project implementation, and thereafter during the
following five years with annual reports, on such monitoring so
that appropriate measures for achieving the said objectives can
be taken by PWC in light of the findings of such monitoring and
their analyses; and
(c) carry out such appropriate remedial measures for
achieving the said objectives, as may be agreed between the
Association and PWC from time to time.
Section 3.03. PWC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. PWC shall operate and maintain the wells,
water meter system and equipment included under the Project, in
accordance with appropriate engineering standards and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PWC shall maintain records adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. PWC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, PWC shall not incur any debt unless PWC's net revenues from
its operations for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence
or for a later twelve-month period ending prior to such incur-
rence, whichever revenues are the greater, shall be at least 1.2
times the maximum debt service (including the debt to be incurred)
for any succeeding fiscal year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is ori-
ginally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agree-
ment or guarantee agreement providing for such
debt;
(iii) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Yemeni Dinars
debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by PWC for the
purposes of servicing such debt;
(iv) the term "net revenues" means the gross revenues
from all sources less all operating and admini-
strative expenses (including adequate maintenance


﻿-6-
and taxes, if any) but before provision covering
depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt; and
(v) the term "debt service" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PWC shall take from time to time all such measures, includ-
ing adjustments of its tariffs, as shall be required to provide it
in each fiscal year with revenues sufficient to cover its opera-
ting and maintenance costs, interest and other charges on debt
and repayment of debt in excess of provision for depreciation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, "operating and mainte-
nance costs" means all PWC's costs, including adequate provision
for depreciation on PWC's assets in operation properly valued in
accordance with appropriate accounting practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of PWC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
PWC of this event.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PWC:
Public Water Corporation
Crater, Aden
People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen
Cable address:
MEYAH
Aden


﻿- 8 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PWC may be taken or executed by the
General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and PWC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
ByA   Regional Vice President
Europe, Midle East and North Africa
PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement under Part A of the Project
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereiiafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PWC shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. PWC shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:


﻿- 10 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of
PWC and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   The drilling and construction of wells under Part A (i) and
(v) of the Project may be carried out on the basis of a negotiated
contract in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 11 -
2.   Items under Part A of the Project estimated to cost not more
than $18,000 equivalent per item may be procured through interna-
tional shopping on the basis of comparison of not less than four
price quotations, provided all such procurement shall not in the
aggregate exceed $400,000 equivalent, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PWC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is is,.     the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluatea, PWC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PWC
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 12 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PWC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PWC and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, PWC shall inform the Asso-
ciation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform PWC and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of         ,
198 J_,
FOR SECRETARY


