Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19811
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2243-MAG)
December 3, 1999
Rural Development 2
Country Department 8
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their|
official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(Estimated average for the period January 1 to December 31)
Currency Unit: FMG
Year       1991       1992   |  1993   l  1994        1995   i  1996   l  1997         1998   |  1999
FMG        1835       1864       1914      3067       4266       4061       5091       5000
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                 Agence Francaise pour le Developpement
CCCE                Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEPROVET            Veterinary Promotion Center
CIREL               District Livestock Office
COMODEL             Livestock Sector Divestiture Committee
CPR                 Center for the Production of Breeding Stock
DEL                 Livestock Department
FIFAMANOR           Dairy and Agricultural Extension Project
FY                  Fiscal Year
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GOM                 Government of Madagascar
ICB                 International Competitive bidding
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MinAgri             Ministry of Agriculture
MinEl               Ministry of Livestock
MPAEF               Ministry of Animal Production, Water and Forestry
NORAD               Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
O&M                 Operation & Maintenance
ROMA                Malagasy Dairy
ROMANOR             Norwegian Malagasy Dairy Project
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SPEL                Provincial Livestock Service
Vice President  :  Callisto Madavo
Director   :  Michael Sarris
Sector Manager   :  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Staff Member       Ousmane Seck



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2243-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...............................................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................I
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................1
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................................         10
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .10
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .11
TABLE 3: PROJECT TiMETABLE .12
TABLE 4:   CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .12
TABLE 5:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .13
TABLE 6: IMPACT INDICATORS .16
TABLE 8: PROJECT COST .20
TABLE 9: PROJECT FINANCING .20
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .21
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .22
TABLE 10:  COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .23
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .24
ANNEXES
Annex 1:      Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report
Annex 2:      Borrower's Comments on the ICR
MAP: IBRD 16922 R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2243-MAG)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Madagascar Livestock Sector
Project (Cr. 2243-MAG), for which a credit in the amount of SDR14.0 million was approved on May 16,
1991 and made effective on August 12, 1992.
2.    The credit was closed as expected on June 30, 1999. The final disbursement is expected to take
place before October 31, 1999, at which time any unused balance would be canceled. NORAD and the
Government co-financed the project, and IDA administered the NORAD grant. NORAD's comments
have been incorporated in the report, and the Government's comments are attached.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Yves Wong, Consultant, and was reviewed by Joseph Baah-Dwomoh,
Sector Manager, Rural Development II and Michael Sarris, Director, Country Department 8.
4.     Preparation of the ICR is based on the report of the Borrower's Project Completion Evaluation
Report of July 19, 1999, and on existing material in the project file. An unofficial English translation of
the summary of the Borrower's report is attached.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2243-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    IDA has supported livestock development in Madagascar since the early seventies. The Livestock
Sector Development Project (Cr. 585-MAG) aimed at developing parastatal ranches. Two subsequent
projects, the Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (Cr. 506-MAG); and the Second Village
Livestock and Rural Development Project (Cr. 121 1-MAG) focused on support services in the
Mahajanga area with a first attempt to support the sector as a whole through the provision of foreign
exchange for imports of veterinary drugs and Livestock Directorate reinforcement.  The project was
identified in 1988 following the decline of livestock sector over the past decades. Until the mid 1970s,
the livestock sector was successful in supplying the local demand for beef while allowing for substantial
exports. However, since 1975, beef production has decreased, while milk production has increased only
marginally. Yet, considerable scope for livestock development remained due to the absence of livestock
diseases common in Africa, and to the presence of abundant land resources for grazing and feed
production in many regions of the country. Beef export prospects were also good at the time, as sanitary
restrictions on exports to the European Union (EU) had been lifted and Madagascar could again benefit
from its quota to EU.
2.    The decline of the sector was due to many factors, the most important being the poor institutional
and economic framework. Weak and inefficient government agencies dominated the sector, providing
unfair competition to the emerging private sector by being directly involved in production, processing,
marketing, input supply, and provision of veterinary services and products. Inappropriate policies,
including provision of free veterinary services and reliance on subsidized and imported food under aid
programs, created an unfavorable economic environment.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objective of the project was to promote livestock production for domestic consumption
and exports through a mixed adjustment and investment operation. The policy reforms aimed at
economic liberalization and private sector development for input supply and provision of services to
producers, while investments aimed at improving the quality of services provided by the public sector and
developing the private sector through producer association activities.
4.    The main policy reforms were: (a) redefinition of the respective roles of government and the
private sector; (b) promotion of farmer associations to take over responsibility for feed mixing and
distribution, fodder seed multiplication, cattle breed improvement, and milk collection; (c) establishment
of a private veterinary profession; (d) streamlining of public sector entities dealing with production or
marketing; and (e) establishment of an incentive framework to allow market-based competition. The



ii
institution strengthening component aimed at: (a) improving the capacity of the Livestock Department
(DEL) of the Ministry of Animal Production, Water and Forestry (MPAEF); (b) strengthening training in
livestock and veterinary science; and (c) streamlining Government's role in the sector. The production
development component included: (a) support to extensive cattle production systems, mainly through
improved disease control in the western and northern regions; and (b) dairy development in the central
highlands, by strengthening dairy producer associations and improving milk collection (access tracks,
chilling centers), feed supply and breeding services.
5.     The objectives were clear and consistent with the new policies of economic liberalization and
public divestiture from private sector activities. The main project risk was correctly attributed to the lack
of response of the private sector. However, more realistic targets should have been set for the riskier
extensive beef production component as it depended upon the completion of innovative reforms and it
covered remote regions where the private sector was virtually non-existent and supporting infrastructure
very weak.  On the other hand, the policy reform  objectives were feasible, and the institution
strengthening component appropriately endorsed a longer term approach for staff development.
6.    The appraisal report also incorrectly assumed that the EU market would remain open; however,
its subsequent closure eliminated Madagascar's sole export market. Project reliance on disease control as
the main activity to promote extensive cattle production in the western and northern regions proved to be
overly optimistic. However, it correctly identified over-capitalization and significant under-utilization of
the modern dairy sector as being serious risks and appropriately recommended a low technology
approach.
Achievement of Objectives
7.    Except for the extensive beef production component, the project has substantially achieved its
objectives. Initial delays occurred during effectiveness, which took 14 months, due to the long legal
process for passing reform legislation and for cross-effectiveness of cofinancing arrangements. Project
start-up was marked by slow progress due to the political transition, affecting decision-making on
important legal, budgetary and project management matters.
8.    The Project Mid-Term Review marked a turning point in project implementation. On the basis
of a fully participatory process, the review (followed by a project priority-setting exercise two months
later) resulted in important corrective actions being taken. These included the appointment of a new
project coordinator, introduction of service contracts with governmental project entities, and amendment
of the credit agreement to include financing of the establishment of savings and loan associations and
rehabilitation of livestock roads. After the mid-term review, project implementation significantly
improved in such areas as financial and accounting control, work programming, and monitoring and
evaluation.
9.     At project completion, the project is still several years away from full development. On policy
reforms, the Ministry of Livestock (MinEl) has redefined its role of policy formulation, provision of
extension services, epidemiological surveillance, regulation, and statistical data collection. It is no longer
involved in feedmill operation and fodder production, input supply, breed improvement, and veterinary
practice. Milk powder volumes from donor aid are now insignificant and taxation is at recommended
levels. Stock breeding centers are no longer operational.
10.   The institution strengthening component has made much progress but is still incomplete. The
introduction of service contracts, emphasizing participation, performance targets, impact indicators, and



iii
accountability, between the project and the livestock services significantly improved performance.
Subsequent to the review of training in DEL, a policy favoring local training was adopted. The project
target of setting up 90 private veterinarians has been fully achieved (100%) and 95% of these
veterinarians have received their sanitary mandates. MinEl is now proceeding to rationalize its staffing
with EU support for compensation payment to redundant staff. The provincial and district livestock
services have been strengthened by the rehabilitation of office buildings, provision of vehicles and office
equipment, and computerization of offices A livestock database has been prepared.
11.   The extensive beef production component is not expected to yield the objective of incremental
beef production at full development (year 10) as this target was unrealistic. However, preliminary data
indicate significant benefits from decreased calf mortality and increased milk production of zebu cows
resulting from water supply development activities implemented after the mid-term review. In spite of
the poor supply response, significant steps have been taken under the project to improve the support
environment for beef production.  National epidemiological surveys have been completed for the
major cattle and pig diseases. Completion of the national reference laboratory, which was not scheduled
at appraisal, would provide important operational support to the regional laboratories for epidemiological
surveillance. Vaccination coverage for the main diseases is steadily rising with the installation of private
veterinarians, reaching a rate of nearly 100% in a number of communes while the national coverage is
estimated at about 60%.
12.   The highlands dairy development component, financed by IDA and NORAD, has fully
achieved its objectives. A key incentive was the unmet demand for milk and milk products as well as
attractive prices. On extension and support to farmer associations, effective programs have been
implemented by ROMA and FIFAMANOR. At project completion, some 11,585 producers, or 83% of
the appraisal estimate, were organized into approved associations, which were also organized into unions
and regional and national federations. The project also emphasized the development offemale producer
associations; at project completion, some 157 (19% of the total number of associations) were established,
which were among the most successful in milk production and collection. ROMA is evolving into an
autonomous and self-financing agency run by producer associations, and local and regional dairy "inter-
professions", which include representatives of the main dairy industry, have been established.
13.   On feed and fodder development, the adaptive research component was successfully carried out
by FIFAMANOR, resulting in the adoption of improved new varieties of fodder maize, oats, and different
rootcrops by farmers. Farmer associations are also involved in seed production, significantly reducing
the problem of supply of improved seeds. FIFAMANOR also established an analytical and feed
formulation laboratory, which has provided cost-effective feed formulations to livestock producers.
14.   The Livestock Promotion Fund (LPF), a revolving fund set up under the project to support
producer association investments in feed mixing and distribution, and milk collection and processing, has
been fully disbursed. Due to changing needs, the appraisal investment targets were revised. Instead of
using the matching grant system proposed in the appraisal report, the LPF has opted for loans at
commercial rates in order to preserve the integrity of the fund. The rehabilitation of the modern
ROMINCO dairy plants was not carried out due to the suspension of CCCE aid.
15.   The rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of livestock roads and tracks was not completed due to
suspension of CCCE aid. IDA agreed during the mid-term review to reallocate US$1.0 million of IDA
funds for district road and track rehabilitation, which has yielded significant benefits for milk collection
and marketing of other agricultural products. Substantial genetic improvements have been carried out
under the project under NORAD cofinancing, so that genetic potential is no longer a limiting factor to



iv
milk production. As scheduled at appraisal, a Herd Book has been created by FIFAMANOR, which
maintains a tracking system for high-yielding cows.
16.   Credit. As a result of the mid-term review, the IDA credit was amended to finance the
establishment of savings and loans associations for livestock producers based on the model of the IDA-
funded Pilot Rural Finance Project. Loans made to producers from savings or from external sources for
the purchase of pregnant cows have been highly successful as they have been fully repaid within two
years in spite of interest rates of 36% per year.
17.   Environmental Impact. Bush fires continue to be set in the dry season to provide palatable
pastures for grazing cattle. Studies carried out under the project have shown that bush fires are complex
phenomena that can be addressed only through a broader approach outside the project scope. The
highlands development component, however, is expected to have a positive environmental impact as
producers are switching from grazing to more intensive systems, with cows kept in stalls.
18.   Project Costs.  Project costs incurred were only 73%  of appraisal estimate.  The road
rehabilitation component was significantly reduced due to suspension of CCCE cofinancing.
Government contributions were also lower than appraisal estimates, due to significantly lower budgetary
allocations in 1995-97.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.   The political transition period between 1991 and 1992 slowed down the decision-making process.
Policy reforms were not easily accepted, which delayed credit effectiveness. Political considerations also
slowed down replacement of weak project management. At project start-up, government practices were
inconsistent with declared reforms. The budget continued to fund parastatals slated for divestiture, and
food aid continued to arrive into the country without tariff increases. The establishment of LPF by the
Ministry of Finance was also delayed. New procedures for budget allocation between 1995 and 1997
significantly reduced counterpart funding for the project and resulted in a severe drop in disbursements.
Project Sustainability
20.   The reforms carried out and the entities created under the project have a good chance of being
sustainable. Public sector activities are now restricted to policy formulation and sectoral adjustment,
regulation, epidemiological surveillance, and support to livestock producer associations, which the State
will continue to support. Private sector activities, which include fodder and feed production, seed
multiplication, supply of breeding stock, milk collection and processing, and veterinary practice are
becoming more firmly entrenched and thus increasingly sustainable. The LPF will ensure continued
funding for investments in these activities, while producer associations are becoming more professional..
Bank Performance
21.   Bank performance has been satisfactory overall. The Bank took the lead role among donors in
promoting essential sectoral adjustment. Bank missions usually included good skill mixes, but more
frequent missions would have been useful when progress was slow. The Bank was flexible on project
restructuring when needed. The transfer of project supervision responsibility after the mid-term review to
the Bank's resident mission was very positive: links with the client were strengthened, administrative
delays reduced, and donor coordination improved. The Bank's' performance as Administrator of
NORAD's Trust Fund could have been enhanced with better communication with NORAD.



v
Borrower Performance
22.    The Borrower's perfornance could be considered to be satisfactory. Although it was slow to
implement the necessary sectoral reforms and administrative changes at various times during the project,
all the corrective actions were eventually taken. Problems of counterpart funding were also finally
resolved.
Assessment of Outcome
23.    The overall project outcome could be rated as "satisfactory", although project achievements are
still fragile. Sectoral adjustment is virtually complete, but rationalization of the Government livestock
services has only just started. All legislation on animal health and sanitary control has been updated, and
the basis for effective epidemiological surveillance has been laid down. Private sector development has
been highly satisfactory. A private veterinary profession is now in place, and vaccination rates continue
to rise. Milk production and producer incomes have significantly increased. The Livestock Promotion
Fund has been successfully set up as a revolving fund. However, the introduction of two new diseases of
importance for export markets is an indication of the weaknesses of the veterinary services
Future Operation
24.    Government's livestock sector program  is designed as a long-term  program  for livestock
development. Thus, the government is interested in pursuing some of the project's activities in line with
the redefined roles of the public and private sectors. In its dialogue with the government on country
assistance strategy, IDA is proposing a new integrated operation called "Agricultural Intensification and
Food Security Project". The latter is expected to include the national program approach of previous IDA
operations.
Key Lessons Learned
25.   Major lessons learned from the project are:
(a) The success of the project was highly dependent upon the commitment of the Government
and officials towards divestiture.
(b) The hybrid nature of the project, combining policy reforms and investments, was appropriate
for the achievement of project objectives.
(c) The policy reforms implemented were necessary to provide a suitable incentive framework
for private sector development.
(d) Organizing all livestock development projects under a single program improved these
interventions, although suspension of CCCE aid affected the whole sector.
(e) Effective project management and accountability are essential elements for successful project
implementation. Their absence affected the extensive beef production component.
(f) Adequate counterpart funding is critical for successful project implementation. Insufficient
local budgets affected the project.
(g) Beneficiary participation is essential for achieving project objectives.  The bottom-up
approach for the elaboration of annual work plans and for the mid-term review improved
project implementation.
(h) The mid-term review was used effectively to take stock of project implementation progress
and enable corrective actions to be taken to achieve project objectives.



vi
(i) Poor roads and lack of access to credit were severe constraints to rural and private sector
development. These issues need to be addressed up-front in development projects.
() The issue of bush fires was very complex and required a multi-sectoral approach which was
outside the scope of the project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2243-MAG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The project was identified in 1988 following the decline of the livestock sector, which contributed about
15% of agricultural GDP and provided some or full income to over 60% ofnational households, had been declining
for the past decades in terms of both production and growth. Until the mid 1970s, the livestock sector was
successful in supplying the local demand for beef while allowing for substantial exports. However, since 1975,
beef production has decreased by about 7%, while milk production has increased only by 0.5% per year since 1960,
much less than the annual population growth estimated at over 3%. Yet, considerable scope for livestock
development remained, particularly in the more intensive dairy, pig and poultry production which was an important
source of income for the rural population. Madagascar also had a comparative advantage for livestock and milk
production, due to the absence of livestock diseases common in Africa and to the presence of abundant land
resources for grazing and feed production in many regions of the country. Beef export prospects were also good at
the time, as sanitary restrictions on exports to the European Union (EU) had been lifted and Madagascar could
again benefit from its quota to EU.
2.    The decline of the sector was due to many factors, the most important being the poor institutional and
economic framework. Weak and inefficient government agencies dominated the sector, causing duplication of
effort and providing unfair competition to the emerging private sector by being directly involved in production,
processing, marketing, input supply, and provision of veterinary services and products. Inappropriate policies,
including provision of free veterinary services and reliance on subsidized and imported food under aid programs,
created an unfavorable economic environment.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objective of the project was to promote livestock production for domestic consumption and
exports through a mixed adjustment and investment operation. The policy reforms aimed at economic liberalization
and private sector development for input supply and provision of services to producers, while investments aimed at
improving the quality of services provided by the public sector and developing the private sector development
through producer association activities. Thus, the project was designed as a package of policy reforms, supported
by an institution building component and a production development component, and was to be coordinated with
several free-standing projects to be financed in parallel by other donors.
4.    The main policy reforms were:
(a)   redefinition of the respective responsibilities of government and the private sector;
(b)   promotion of farmer associations to take over responsibility for such areas as feed mixing and
distribution, fodder seed multiplication, cattle breed improvement, and milk collection;



2
(c)    promotion of private veterinary practice;
(d)    streamlining of public sector entities dealing with production or marketing; and
(e)    establishment of an incentive framework to allow market-based competition, based on suitable
pricing mechanisms to be set up for dairy products imported under food aid or subsidized
surpluses.
5.    The institution strengthening component aimed at:
(a)   improving the capacity of the Livestock Department (DEL) of the Ministry of Animal Production,
Water and Forestry (MPAEF);
(b)    strengthening training in livestock and veterinary science; and
(c)    streamlining the government's role in the sector.
6.     The production development component included:
(a)    support to extensive cattle production systems, mainly through improved disease control in the
western and northern regions; and
(b)    dairy development in the central highlands, by strengthening dairy producer associations and
improving milk collection (access tracks, chilling centers), feed supply and breeding services.
7.    The objectives were clear and consistent with the economic adjustment programs that were being discussed
under the Bank's dialogue with Government at that time. There was also an emerging consensus in the country,
and among donors, on the need to liberalize the economy and to divest the public sector from production,
marketing and other activities that were more the role and responsibility of the private sector. It was largely
recognized that socialist policies of the previous decades had failed and that fundamental reforms were necessary to
restart the stagnating economy, including the livestock sector.
8.    However, while the long term project objectives were appropriate, there were several substantial risks
associated with a number of the project development objectives. More realistic targets for the five-year period of
the project should have been set for the extensive beef production, which required a longer timeframe for the
completion of innovative reforms. On the other hand, policy reform objectives were feasible, in spite of expected
opposition from entrenched livestock services in MPAEF (now called Ministry of Livestock or MinEI). The
institution strengthening component correctly endorsed a longer term approach for staff development by initially
supporting a manpower requirements review, as major weaknesses of the livestock services had been identified,
including over-staffing, unclear mandates, poor work programming and supervision, low staff morale and pay, and
inadequate operating and investment funds.
9.     The main project risk was correctly identified as being lack of response of the private sector; private
entities to take the place to be vacated by Government in input supply, marketing and veterinary practice were
scarce or non-existent. Thus, project objectives for the extensive beef production component, which was
implemented in the remote areas of the country where the private sector was virtually non-existent and the support
infrastructure very weak, were over-optimistic.
10.   At appraisal, it was incorrectly assumed that beef exports to EU would continue, but the subsequent ban
closed down the sole export market for processed beef. The project design also assumed that disease control alone
would be sufficient to induce increased extensive cattle production in the western and northern regions. That
approach was overly optimistic.



3
11.   The appraisal mission correctly identified over-capitalization and significant under-utilization of the
modern dairy sector as being serious risks and correctly recommended a low technology approach which focused
on increasing local demand for milk and dairy products.
12.   During negotiations, it was agreed that French Cooperation (FAC), and not IDA, would be providing
support to the semi-intensive production of pork and poultry and to the operation of a new production unit for
veterinary vaccines in partnership with international companies. CCCE financing of milk road and track
improvement was also confirmed, although the target of 1,000 km was considered to be ambitious. NORAD
cofinancing was agreed in principle for the genetic and feed and fodder improvement programs.
Achievement of Project Objectives
13.   In spite of initial implementation delays, the project, except for the extension beef production component,
has substantially achieved its objectives. Delays occurred during effectiveness, which took 14 months for the
conditions to be satisfied, due to the long legal process for passing reform legislation and for cross-effectiveness of
cofinancing arrangements.
14.   The first year of project implementation (1992-93) was marked by slow progress due to the political
transition, which affected decision-making on important legal matters, such as the finalization of the Boards of
ROMA and ROMINCO. No action was taken to increase tariffs on milk imports in the 1993 budget, and the by-
law for setting up COMODEL was not signed. The transfer of project coordination responsibility to the Director of
Livestock in October 1993, in fact, further slowed down project implementation. The main problems were
excessive centralization, lack of delegation ofauthority, and poor work programming. However, project activities
implemented by other project entities, as in the highlands dairy development component, proceeded normally.
15.   The Project Mid-Term  Review  conducted in April 1995 marked a turning point in project
implementation. On the basis of prior consultant reviews of project implementation and of a fully participatory
process involving stakeholders, the review (followed by a priority-setting exercise two months later) led to
important corrective actions being taken.  These included the appointment of a new project coordinator,
introduction of service contracts with Government project entities, and amendment of the credit agreement to
include financing of the establishment of savings and loan associations and rehabilitation of livestock roads. After
the mid-term review, project implementation significantly improved. In 1996, notable progress had been achieved
in financial and accounting control, work programming, and monitoring and evaluation.
16.   At project completion in June 1999, the project is still several years away from full development due to
the implementation delays in the first half of the project. However, except for the extensive beef production
component, the project has substantially achieved the objectives set for the project period.
17.    On policy reforms, the Ministry of Livestock (MinEI) has redefined its role in policy formulation,
provision of extension services to the non-milk subsector (for the milk subsector, the livestock producer
associations are committed to taking over these activities in the medium term), epidemiological surveillance,
regulation, and statistical data collection. It is no longer involved in feedmill operation and fodder production,
input supply, breed improvement, and veterinary practice. These activities are now handled by farmers, farmer
associations, private traders, and private veterinarians. Milk powder is now received under donor aid in
insignificant amounts, and taxation is set at levels recommended by the Bank. Privatization of the breeding centers
has been put on hold, as a result of the Privatization Law which has removed all responsibility for that activity from
COMODEL (which has been set up under the project for that purpose). As these centers are no longer operational,
their privatization does not appear to be a top Government priority.



4
18.   The institution strengthening component has made much progress but is still incomplete. DEL capacity
improvement was seriously delayed until the replacement of the Director in 1996. The introduction of service
contracts between the project and DEL divisions and provincial livestock services after the mid-term review
significantly improved performance. These contracts emphasized participation, accountability, setting of clear
quantitative targets, timely provision of budgets, and monitoring and evaluation. A training policy favoring local
training has been adopted. The project target of creating a private veterinary profession has been achieved (all 90
private veterinarians are operating, and 95% of them have received their sanitary mandates). A consultant review
confirms that 80% of them are doing an effective job. To fill in gaps in geographical coverage, MinEl is taking
steps to increase the numbers of private veterinarians . As a result of the new private veterinarians, MinEl can
redeploy its staff. A first phase is scheduled to be implemented in the second half of 1999 with EU support for
providing compensation to redundant staff.
19.   Although not scheduled at appraisal, the project has supported the establishment of a database for the
livestock sector. The responsibility for preparation and maintenance of this database is in the hands of the public
sector. Livestock statistics for 1998 have been prepared.
20.   The extensive beef production component is not expected to yield the objective of incremental beef
production at full development (year 10). Implementation of the component was delayed by several years'
inactivity due to weak DEL management and slow progress in health coverage by private veterinarians in the more
remote rangeland areas. Improved health coverage was assumed in the appraisal report as being the main factor
leading to increased offtake, and in some communes, vaccination coverage against anthrax is nearly 100%.
Although appraisal objectives for beef exports were not set, there was an implicit assumption that increased offtake
would be driven and absorbed by exports to EU. The closing of that market eliminated a major production
incentive. Government now recognizes that redeveloping the export market for Malagasy beef will require a multi-
pronged and long-term approach involving both the public and private sectors. The main diseases must be brought
under control, and the privately-run slaughterhouses must comply with EU sanitary norms.
21.   A factor not foreseen at appraisal relates to decreased calf mortality and increased milk production of zebu
cows as a result of water supply development activities implemented after the mid-term review. As only 1-2 years
of data are available, it needs to be treated with caution but preliminary estimates indicate that thiswater supply
activity is having a significant impact on improving extensive beef production, particularly during the dry season.
In spite of the poor supply response, significant steps have been taken under the project to improve the
support environment for beef production. National epidemiological surveys have been completed for themajor
cattle and pig diseases (tuberculosis, Rift Valley fever, anthrax, Teschen, etc.). Completion of the national
reference laboratory, which was not scheduled at appraisal, will provide important operational support to the
regional laboratories. The network will strengthen the database on regional animal health profiles and play a key
role in epidemiological surveillance and in improving the effectiveness of disease control programs.  The
provincial and district livestock services have been strengthened by the rehabilitation of office buildings and
provision of vehicles and office equipment. These offices are now fully computerized andthe staff is trained on
computer use. However, during the implementation of this project, two new diseases of importance for export
markets were accidentally introduced: Rift valley fever of small ruminants, and African Swine fever which
devasted the smallholder pig industry. These introductions are an indication for the weaknesses of the veterinary
services (quarantine and epidemiosurveillance).
22.    The pilot research and development program was carried out by the national research agency (FOFIFA), as
scheduled. It included studies and trials on breed and fodder improvement, feeding systems, and disease control.
However, little progress was made in developing systems for reducing the incidence of bush fires as a
comprehensive approach was required, which was outside the scope of the project.



5
23.   The highlands dairy development component, financed by IDA and NORAD, has fully achieved its
objectives. A key incentive to producers has been an unsatisfied demand for milk and milk products and attractive
prices. The lowlands dairy development program, which was expected to be financed by ADB as a stand-alone
project, was not implemented due to suspension of ADB aid to Madagascar. The highlands development
component included five sub-programs. However, the introduction of two new diseases of importance for export
markets is an indication of the weaknesses of the veterinary services.
24. . (a) Extension and Support to Farmer Associations. Effective programs for extension and support to
development of farmer associations were implemented by ROMA and FIFAMANOR. While responsibility for
extension for the beef production component was handed over to the National Agricultural Extension Project
(NAEP) in 1995, that for dairy development remained with ROMA and FIFAMANOR at the request of the milk
producer associations. That was in line with appraisal plans for conversion of ROMA into an autonomous agency
run by producer associations at the end of the project. At project completion, ROMA has taken the first steps of
this conversion with the establishment in early 1999 of local and regional dairy "inter-professions", which include
representatives of eight different groups of actors in the dairy industry. For extensive beef production, the
Livestock Department provided livestock specialists to NAEP to train their subject matter specialists.
25.   At appraisal, it was expected that some 12,000 farmers would be organized into 200 new associations. At
project completion, some 11,585 producers, or 83% of the appraisal estimate, were organized into approved
associations, which were also organized into unions and regional and national federations. While womenwere not
specifically targeted, nonetheless the project emphasized the development of female producer associations. At
project completion, some 157 of those associations (19% of the total number) were established. Being amongst the
most dynamic associations, they were highly successful in milk production and collection and in providing
attractive incomes to their members.
26.   (b) Feed and Fodder Development. The adaptive research component was successfully carried out by
FIFAMANOR, resulting in the adoption by producers, specially in the dry season, of improved new varieties of
fodder maize, oats, and different rootcrops. Farmer associations are also involved in seed production, reducing the
problem of supply of improved seeds. FIFAMANOR also established with NORAD funding an analytical and feed
formulation laboratory, which has provided cost-effective feed formulations to livestock producers mixing their
own feeds.
27.   The Livestock Promotion Fund (LPF), a revolving fund set up under the project to support producer
association investments in feed mixing and distribution and milk collection and processing, has been fully
disbursed. Instead of using the matching grant system proposed in the appraisal report, LPF opted for full loans at
commercial rates in order to preserve the integrity of the fund. The interest collected would be used to finance the
operating cost of the fund. The Fund was only established in 1995 after significant delays in the finalization of
institutional arrangements by the Ministry of Finance.
28.   ( c) Milk Collection and Processing Infrastructure in the Highlands. The rehabilitation of about 1,000
km of livestock roads and tracks, scheduled for funding by CCCE under parallel financing arrangements, was not
completed due to suspension of that aid between 1994 and 1998. At Government request, IDA agreed during the
mid-term review to reallocate US$1.0 million of IDA funds for that activity. A total of 216 km of road was
rehabilitated, and significant benefits on milk collection and marketing of other agricultural products have been
reported.
29.   The LPF also funded the construction of 87 milk collection points and centers and three
collection/processing centers (appraisal targets were revised to accommodate current needs). Early results indicate



6
that these activities are profitable. Scheduled to be financed by CCCE, the rehabilitation of ROMINCO's modern
dairy plants was not carried out due to suspension of its aid to Madagascar. NORAD expressed interest in the
rehabilitation and funded consultant reviews but did not follow up with investments in view of the low economic
viability of the modern sector. The plants are virtually non-operational, being also affected by weak plant
management.
30.   (d) Genetic Improvement. Substantial genetic improvements have been carried out under the project
under NORAD cofinancing, to such extent that the genetic potential of cows in the project area is no longer the
limiting factor to milk production. As scheduled at appraisal, a Herd Book has been created by FIFAMANOR,
which maintains a tracking system for high-yielding cows.
31.   (e) Research and Development. Livestock producers have benefited from increased knowledge and
developments in livestock and milk production. These include identification and measurement of disease incidence
(national mapping of the main diseases has been completed), development and testing of vaccines (effective
vaccines are now in use against anthrax in cattle and Teschen disease in pigs, which had decimated pig populations
in a number of regions), dry season supplementary feeding of urea-treated rice stalks, and improved manure and
silage production.
32.    Credit. As a result of the mid-term review, the IDA credit was amended to finance the establishment of
savings and loans associations for livestock producers based on the model of the IDA-funded Pilot Rural Finance
Project. For the first time for many of them, association members could deposit their savings and have access to
credit. Loans received by members to purchase pregnant cows are bringing significant benefits to the families. In
spite of interest rates of 36% per year, these loans have been usually repaid in full within two years.
33.   Environmental Impact. In the dry season, herders continue to set fires to pasture to produce greener
vegetation, although this is not linked to any dramatic cattle population growth, as anticipated under the extensive
beef production component. Numerous studies have shown that bush fires are complex phenomena that need a
broader approach which is outside the scope of the project. The highlands development component, on the other
hand, should have a positive environmental impact as producers are switching from grazing to more intensive
systems, based on forage production and keeping cows in stalls
34.   Project Costs. Project costs incurred were only 73% of appraisal estimate. Reductions in project scope
were due to suspension of cofinancing arrangements with CCCE (US$5.40 million for road rehabilitation).
Government contributions were also lower than appraisal estimates, mainly due to significantly lower budgetary
allocations in 1995-97.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
35.   In the transition period between 1991 and 1992 when the political system in the country significantly
changed, slow decision-making affected the project. Policy reforms underlying the project were not easily
accepted. Political considerations also had a major influence in keeping in place a weak project manager and head
of livestock services during the first half of the project. Consultant assistance provided under bilateral aid gave
effective support to central project coordination and to technical aspects of livestock production.
36.    At project start-up, governmental policies were inconsistent with declared reforms. Thus, budget proposals
included provisions for the rehabilitation of the parastatal ranch in the mid-west and of stock breeding farms, in
contradiction with divestiture policy. Government policy to provide easy access to cheap and subsidized food aid
from donor countries weakened local dairy production and constrained its markets. Raising of import tariffs to a



7
level of 30%, as proposed by the Bank, was completed only in Government budget year 1994, with two years of
delay. Switching the responsibility of project coordination between the Director of Livestock and the ex-Secretary
General of MPAEF between 1992 and 1994 severely affected project implementation, particularly of the extensive
beef production component which was then under the responsibility of the Livestock Department The Ministry of
Finance finalized institutional arrangements for the operation of the Livestock Promotion Fund only in 1996,
causing significant delays to its start-up and to its operation. Between 1995 and 1997, new procedures introduced
by the Ministry of Economy and Plan for budget allocation significantly reduced counterpart funding for the
project and resulted in disbursements falling to 20% of previous levels.
Project Sustainability
37.    The reforms carried out and the entities created under the project have a good chance of being sustainable.
The division of responsibilities between the public and the private sectors for operation of the livestock sector is
now clear and fully accepted by all stakeholders. For the public sector, MinEL has divested itself from animal
breeding and drug distribution activities and now concentrates on its permanent mandates of policy formulation and
completing sectoral reforms, regulating the sector, carrying out epidemiological surveillance, and providing support
to livestock producer associations.
38.   Private sector activities developed under the project also have good prospects of sustainability, although
they are still quite fragile and need continued government support for another 4-5 years. The livestock producer
associations have effectively taken over activities related to fodder and feed production, seed multiplication, supply
of breeding stock, and milk collection and processing. Loan repayments to LPF will ensure continued funding of
new investments in these activities, which have excellent prospects of profitability due to the unsatisfied demand
and attractive prices for milk. The further development of associations into inter-professions will enhance their
sustainability. The establishment of a private veterinary practice has been entirely successful. Many of these
veterinarians are running profitable practices, and the majority of them are effectively fulfilling their sanitary
mandates.
Bank Performance
39.   Bank performance has been satisfactory overall. In particular, the Bank has played the lead role in
promoting adjustment of the livestock sector. It supported Government's successful efforts to integrate all sector
development activities into the Livestock Sector Program. The Bank identified most of the main issues and
problems during project identification, preparation and appraisal. However, the major project assumption that
Madagascar would continue to benefit from its beef export quota to EU was over-optimistic and the risk of losing
that market was not identified.
40.    While Bank missions usually included good skill mixes, the frequency of missions could probably have
been increased with positive effects during the period 1990-91 when progress was relatively slow. The Bank was
flexible and responsive to the frequent need for credit amendment as the project was being restructured, but could
have been more forceful in requiring management changes in livestock services. The participatory nature of the
mid-term review resulted in significant project restructuring to address such constraints as poor roads and lack of
credit. No deviation from Bank policies and procedures was reported. Finally, the transfer of project supervision
responsibility after the mid-term review to the Bank's resident mission was very positive. It not only strengthened
links with the client, but also reduced administrative delays, promoted donor coordination, and improved the
technical quality of Bank assistance.
41.   The Banks' performance as Administrator of NORAD's Trust Fund could have been enhanced by better
communication with NORAD on the planning of missions, regular briefings, and transmission of documents and



8
reports. On the other hand, delays in the replenishment of the Trust Fund account delayed disbursements to some
extent.
Borrower Performance
42.   At project completion, the Borrower's overall performance could be considered to be satisfactory, in spite
of earlier political, policy and institutional problems. The targeted sectoral reforms have substantively been
completed, albeit with some difficulty at the beginning of the project. The role of government services is now
clearer, and the divestiture program has been completed in practice. Although the breeding centers have not been
officially privatized as scheduled, they are no longer operational and are not a burden on the public budget. The
Borrower is committed to the development of producer associations as an effective interlocutor. On the other hand,
inadequate provision of counterpart funding significantly slowed down project implementation after the mid-term
review and lack of government action to strengthen weak project leadership and management at the Livestock
Department caused several years of implementation delays. While ROMA and FIFAMANOR are providing
effective support to producer associations, MinEI, which only became a separate ministry in 1997, has still to fully
evolve into its newly-defined role. Thus, although the basis of a national epidemiological surveillance system has
been laid down, this is not yet fully effective.
Assessment of Project Outcome
43.   Overall project outcome could be rated as "satisfactory", although project achievements are still fragile and
need further support for sustained development. Policy reforms have been largely completed, as well as divestiture
from private sector activities. Private sector development has been highly satisfactory. Effective livestock
producer associations have been established. Privatization of veterinary practice is now an operational reality, and
vaccination rates continue to rise. Milk production and producer incomes have significantly increased, and LPF
will continue to finance milk collection and processing and other milk production development activities.
However, the introduction of two new diseases of importance for export markets is an indication of the weaknesses
of the veterinary services.
Future Operation
44.    Government's livestock sector program, in which this project has played a lead role, is designed as a long-
term program as livestock development and disease eradication activities need a long-term perspective. Thus,
Government is interested in pursuing some of this project's activities in line with the redefined roles of the public
and private sectors. In its dialogue with Government on country assistance strategy, IDA is proposing a new
integrated operation called "Agricultural Intensification and Food Security Project". Government and IDA have
started a dialogue on the prospects of supporting the continuation of some project objectives under the new
operation. The latter is expected to integrate the national program approach of previous IDA operations with
empowerment of decentralized authorities and bodies, consistent with the country's move towards provincial
autonomy. It would operationalize, together with other donor actions, key recommendations of the Rural
Development Action Plan, which is being finalized by the Government with the cooperation of all donors.
Key Lessons Learned
45.   Major lessons learned from the project are:
(a) The success of the project was highly dependent upon the commitment of the Government and officials
towards divestiture.
(b) The hybrid nature of the project, combining policy reforms and investments, was appropriate for the



9
achievement of project objectives.
(c) The policy reforms implemented were necessary to provide a suitable incentive framework for private
sector development.
(d) Organizing all livestock development projects under a single program improved these interventions,
although suspension of CCCE aid affected the whole sector.
(e) Effective project management and accountability are essential elements for successful project
implementation. Their absence affected the extensive beef production component.
(f) Adequate counterpart funding is critical for successful project implementation. Insufficient local
budgets affected the project.
(g) Beneficiary participation is essential for achieving project objectives. The bottom-up approachfor the
elaboration of annual work plans and for the mid-term review improved project implementation.
(h) The mid-term review was used effectively to take stock of project implementation progress and enable
corrective actions to be taken to achieve project objectives.
(i) Poor roads and lack of access to credit were severe constraints to rural and private sector development.
These issues need to be addressed up-front in development projects.
(j) The issue of bush fires was very complex and required a multi-sectoral approach which was outside the
scope of the project
(k) Contracting livestock services is an important way of improving quality of the project's
implementation.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2243-MAG)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial        Partial            Negligible         Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                                    x
Sector policies                        X                                         .
Financial objectives                   X
Institutional development                               X
Physical objectives                              _
Poverty reduction
Gender issues                          X
Other social objectives                                 X
Environmental objectives                   __X______                                  _-
Public sector management
Private sector development             X
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability            Likely          Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance                  Highly        Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                          X
Preparation Assistance                                  X
Appraisal                                               X
Supervision                                             x
D. Borrower performance              Highly        Satisfactory          Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                             X
Implementation                                          X
Covenant compliance                                     X
E. Assessment of outcome                                X



I1
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit title                   Purpose                 Year of             Status
approval                           |
Concurrent operations                                                                           i
Second Agricultural Credit  Provide foreign exchange to finance  1987   Completed
Project (Cr. 1804-MAG)    subprojects in agricultural production
and primary processing and marketing
and strengthening of BTM.
National Agricultural    Support the establishment of a      1989        Completed
Research Project (Cr.    decentralized national agricultural
2042-MAG)                system, based on participatory and
multi-disciplinary research planning
and evaluation.
Agricultural Extension   Test the feasibility of an improved  1990       Completed
Pilot Project (Cr. 2150-  extension management system.
MAG)
Following operations                                                                             I
Second Irrigation        Support irrigation rehabilitation and  1994    Active
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.  sustainable management through a
2644-MAG)                participatory approach empowering
water user associations.
National Agricultural    Support the establishment of a      1995        Active
Extension Project (Cr.   national extension system under a
2729-MAG)                single framework and based on clear (
management criteria.
Social Fund II (Cr. 2778-   Alleviate poverty and support    1995        Active
MAG)                     community development through
partnerships with NGOs and
beneficiary communities.



12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps on Project Cycle               Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification                                  May 1988                    May 1988
Preparation                                November 1988           Dec. 88-Mar.1990
Appraisal                                     March 1990               January 3, 1991
Negotiations                                    April 1991               April 2, 1991
Board presentation                              May 1991                May 16, 1991
Signing                                         June 1991               June 12, 1991
Effectiveness                              September 1991             August 12, 1992
Mid-term review                              August 1995                 May 1, 1995
Project completion                     December 31, 1998                June 30, 1999
Credit closing                              June 30, 1999               June 30, 1999
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Estimated Cumulative    Actual Cumulative       Actual as a % of
Fiscal Year            Disbursements          Disbursements             estimate
(US$ million)          (US$ million)
1992                     0.4                   0.00                      0
1993                     2.0                   2.35                    118
1994                     4.4                   3.93                     89
1995                     8.3                   6.32                     76
1996                    13.1                   7.99                     61
1997                    17.8                  11.51                     65
1998                    19.8                  14.76                     75
1999                    19.8                  18.29                 _92
Final Disbursement Date: October 1999



13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. SECTOR REFORMS AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Unit            Target                    Completed
(i) Animal health monitoring and                     Appraisal   Revised    Unit       % App.   % Rev.
epidemiological surveillance
National Reference Lab. operational (1)   No.           n.a. (2)         1                 N.A.         45
Regional laboratories rehabilitated       No.                 5          9         9        180        100
Ivato quarantine station rehabilitated    No.                 1          1          I       100        100
Mobile surveillance teams operational     No.                 5          8         8        160        100
(ii) Studies and control of major diseases
Veterinary stations involved in bovine    No.              n.a.        243       243       N.A.        100
tuberculosis investigations                          _
National map of bovine TB prepared        No.               n.a.         1          1      N.A.        100
Vaccine for bovine TB tested              /                n.a.        100                 N.A.         25
Veterinary stations involved in anthrax   No.              n.a.        243       243       N.A.        100
investigations
Anthrax incidence maps prepared           No./yr           n.a.          2         2       N.A.        100
Veterinary stations involved in Rift Valley  No.            n.a.       100        61       N.A.         61
Fever investigations
Vaccine for Teschen disease tested        %                n.a.        100       100       N.A.        100
Eradication program completed                              n.a.        100         15      N.A.         15
(iii) Privatization of veterinary services
Private veterinarians established         No.               90          90        90        100        100
Private vets mandated by Government       No.               90          90        85         94         94
Veterinary promotion center established   No.              n.a.          1          1      N.A.        100
Overall vaccination rate for veterinarians  %              n.a.        100        56       N.A.         56
(iv) Privatization of breeding centers
Privatization studies completed           No.               22          16         16        73        100
Centers privatized (3)                    No.               22          20         2          9         10
(v) Livestock database
National documentation center established  No.              n.a.         1          1      N.A.        100
Regional documentation units established  No.              n.a.          6         6       N.A.        100
Livestock database established            No.              n.a.          I          I      N.A.         40
1. Construction has already been completed but the premises are considered by European Union experts to be inadequate. The EU is
financing the construction of another building at a more suitable location.
2.  n.a. = not estimated
3.  As a result of Privatization Law, responsibilities transferred to Privatization Committee, which has yet to address the matter.
However, Government divestiture of breeding centers is already effective as all operations have ceased at the centers..



14
B. Support to Extensive Beef Production
Unit            Target                   Completed
(i) Rehabilitation of livestock services              Appraisal   Revised    Unit       % App.   % Rev.
Regional livestock offices rehabilitated   No.              n.a.          4         3       N.A.       75
District livestock offices rehabilitated   No.              n.a.         31        31       N.A.      100
(II) Establishment of beef farmer
associations
Members of associations                    No.              252         500      2048       819       410
Associations operational                   No.               36          36       131       364       364
(iii) Production infrastructure created
Drinking points developed                  No.              n.a.         72        47       N.A.       65
(iv) Genetic improvement
Artificial insemination posts established  No.              n.a.          3         3       N.A.       100
Females inseminated                        No.              n.a.        400       283       N.A.       71
(v) Feed improvement
Fodder trials laid down                    No./yr           n.a.         12         0       N.A.         0
Urea-treated fodder trials                 No./yr           n.a.         60        33       N.A.       55
(f) Studies
Livestock development studies completed    No.              n.a.         12         8       N.A.       67



15
C. DAIRY DEVELOPMENT
Unit           Target                   Completed
(a) Extension support and development of           Appraisal   Revised    Unit      % App.   % Rev.
livestock farmer associations
Total number of association members     No.            14,000     12,000    10,765       77         90
- in FIFAMANOR area                    No.            4,500      2,500     2,460        55         98
- in ROMA area                         No.            9,500      9,500     8,305        87         87
Approved grass-roots associations       No.              850        850       814        96         96
Approved unions of associations         No.              150        190       136        91         72
Approved federations of unions          No                15         17        14        93         82
Approved women associations             No.              n.a.       181       130       N.A.        72
(b) Feed improvement
Fodder trials (FIFAMANOR)               No./yr           n.a.       514       635       N.A.       124
Improved seed production                Ha/yr            n.a.       125       174       139        139
Seed production by ROMA associations    Kg               n.a.      5,400     6,626      N.A.       123
Establishment of nutrition laboratory   No.              n.a.         1         1       N.A.       100
Feed rations formulated                 No./yr           n.a.       118       136       N.A.       115
(c) Genetic improvement                                       __X_____=_                     __X
Bulls tested for breeding               No.              n.a.       265       238       N.A.        90
Doses frozen semen produced             No.              n.a.      9,000      130       N.A.         1
Cows serviced                           No.              n.a.    50,000    46,416       N.A.        93
Cows inseminated                        No.              n.a.     10,000     6,066      N.A.        61
(d) Animal health improvement                                                _      _
Village pharmacies established          No.              n.a.       138       135       N.A.        98
(e) Milk collection and processing                          _ _____ __ _X.                           X
Collection centers established (ROMA)   No.               50         75       100       200        133
Support to ROMINCO processing plants    No.                3          3         0         0          0
(f) Livestock Promotion Fund
Milk collection points established      No.               46         46        57       124        124
Milk collection centers established     No.               18         14         5        28         36
Mini dairy plants established           No.                3          3         2        67         67
Mini feedmills established              No.               15          4         7        44        175
Salt lick plants established            No.                2          2         2       100        100
Milk road rehabilitated                 Km               n.a.       250       216      N.A.         86
(g) Support to rural finance
Savings and loan associations established  No            n.a.        47        48      N.A.       100
Members of associations                 No.              n.a.     8,500     7,765                  91
Volume of savings                       FMG              n.a.       280       382      N.A.        136
million                        I         I



16
TABLE 6: IMPACT INDICATORS
Project Objective            Actual             At Full Development
1. Extensive Beef Production
(a) Calf mortality             From 23% to 15%      10% decrease
over 10 years
(b) Yearling mortality         From 6.5% to 4.5%    Not available
over 10 years
C Birth rate                  From 62.5% to 64%    Not available
over 10 years
(d) Milk production           From 500 I to 600 1   Not available
per lactation
(e) Increase offtake          80,000 per year      Not available
(f) Incremental farmer revenue    $150 per year after    Not available
from 50 head herd              10 years
2. Highlands Dairy Production
(a) Incremental milk production   1,500 1 per year  1,948 1 per year        2,000 1 per year
per cow                        (base: 1993)
(b) Total incremental milk    80,000 1 per day in    60,270 1 per day       80,000 1 per day
production                     10 years
3 Incremental income per cow
(d) Increased return to labor  From $0.50 to $1.50
_____________________________  per  person-day



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                             Purpose as defined in    Status           Impact of Study
l _____________________________   SARlredefined
Incidence of Rift Valley Fever in   Improvement of        Completed         Incidence evaluated and mapped, and
cattle                            animal health                             disease monitored  Country declared
disease-free.
Incidence of tuberculosis in cattle                      It                 Long term eradication program planned.
Incidence of anthrax and related    "                                       Vaccination programs underway.
diseases.
Testing of vaccine against                                                  Effective vaccine available against
Teschen disease.                                                            disease.
Establishment of epidemiological   "                                        Surveillance network operational.
surveillance network.
Feasibility of installation of    Privatization of                          All 90 private veterinarians earmarked
private veterinarians.            veterinary practice.                       installed.
Installation of milk collection and   Private sector                        Most appropriate locations agreed by
processing centers.               development.                              producer associations.
Feasibility study of dairy                                                  Economic feasibility confirmed.
investments
Establishment of feedmills and
mineral licks.
Sustained development of the                                                Designed as sustainable revolving fund.
Livestock Promotion Fund
Future of ROMA.                   Government                                Agreed plan designed for Government
divestiture and private                   divestiture from ROMA and ownership
sector development.                       by producer associations.
Establishment of animal nutrition   Not identified at                       Laboratory operational and providing
laboratory.                       appraisal                                 excellent service to producers.
Financial audit of ROMINCO.       Viability of                              Confirmed the non-viability of
l___________________ ROMINCO.                                                ROMINCO.
Survival of ROMINCO               I c                                       Survival plan prepared.
Preparation of livestock database.  Reinforcement of                         A current database now available.
Livestock Department.



18
(continued)
Study                          Purpose as defined in   Status    Impact of Study
SAR/redefined
Socio-economic study of        System improvement   "             Little impact of results on the systems.
extensive beef production
systems.                                                                                                    I
Marketing of cattle in the mid-  I                   IC           Little practical application for results.
west.
Use of molasses urea mixes for    I                               Beneficial use confirmed but not very
cows                                                              accessible to cow keepers.
Evaluation of oats and urea-   Feeding systems       Completed   Now being used to some extent by producers.
treated rice straw for cow-feeding  improvement
in dry season.
Milk quality in Vakinankaratra.    "                              Exposed poor bacteriological quality of milk
and underlined need to give high priority to
quality issues.
Evaluation of improved Manja   Production systems    "            Confirmed potential for further development.
Boina cattle in suburban areas of  improvement.
Mahajanga.
Breeding and cow management.   "                                  Improvement of dairy production.
Technical and economic aspects    "                               Demonstrated economic benefits of control.
of tick control.
Degree of immunization of dairy   "                               Improved understanding of resistance to
animals to diseases transmitted by                                diseases.
ticks.
Bibliography of bovine                                            Provided database for planning of long term
tuberculosis.                                                     eradication program.
Reform of technical education at                                   99??????
EASTA Mahajanga.
Privatization of breeding centers.   "                            No privatization actions completed due to new
Privatization Law.
Administrative, financial and  Institution                       Implemented by CP.
accounting organization of CP,    strengthening
and preparation of manual of
procedures.



19
(continued)
Study                        Purpose as defined    Status    Impact of Study
in SAR/redefined              ___
Mid-term evaluation of milk  Monitoring                     Inputs into Bank mid-term review mission.
production, extensive beef   and evaluation
production, and institution
strengthening components.                                                                                   l
Evaluation of project's                                     Input into the continuous adjustment of project
sociological impact.                                        directions.
Evaluation of project's
economic impact.
Evaluation of private        Redefinition of roles  "       Provides base for strengthening role of private
veterinarians and of program to  of public and private      veterinarians and for redeploying redundant public
divest MinEl's field services.    sectors                   services.
Mid-term evaluation of       Not identified at              Identified weaknesses and recommended corrective
activities of savings and loan    appraisal.                action.
associations.
Preparation of a national policy  Production system         Laid the base for directions to follow.
for genetic improvement.     improvement.



20
TABLE 8: PROJECT COST
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Local costs   Foreign costs    Total             Total
A. Production Development.       12.18          11.29         23.47           _       _
Extensive Cattle Systems         4.49          3.93           8.43             3.81
Highlands Dairy Development      7.69           7.36         15.04             9.31
B. Institution Building           3.40           5.21          8.61             12.38
..Strengthening DEL               1.65          3.02           4.67
..Monitoring & Evaluation         0.41          0.52           0.93
-.Privatization of Veterinarians  0.79          0.87           1.66
..Divestiture Program             0.28          0.23           0.51
..Formal Training Review          0.27          0.57           0.64
iPhysical Contingencies            0.89           0.89    !     1.78
Price Contingencies         [    1.64            3.13    [    4.77    l
TOTAL Project Costs             _18.11         20.52          38.63            28.28
TABLE 9: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
US$ million            US$ million  1j  % Appraisal
IDA                                     19.80                   19.44              98
CCCE                                     5.40                    0.04               1
MCD                                      1.00                    1.63             163
NORAD                                    2.10                    2.05              98
Farrners                                 2.60                     n.a.              -
Government                               7.70                    5.11              66
Total                                   38.60                   28.28              73



21
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The main quantified benefit resulting from the project comes from increased milk production in the highlands, foi
which an economic rate of return (ERR) of 19 percent has been calculated for a speed of development of 10 years,
as compared to the appraisal estimate of 13 to 19 percent, depending on the assumption on the speed of
development of 10 or 8 years. At full development, the incremental milk production is estimated to reach thl
appraisal figure of 30 million liters per year. For extensive cattle production, the ERR was not estimated as more
lead-time is needed to quantify emerging benefits resulting from improved health care under health programs bein
conducted by private veterinarians. These benefits have been delayed due to project implementation problems. At
appraisal, an ERR of 17 to 22 percent, depending on the share of the cattle population that would be affected (30 to
50 percent), was estimated.  With hindsight, this figure was probably over-estimated, given the severely
constraining socio-economic environment, including external market conditions, for extensive beef production.
Given the very poor state of roads and the time needed for the installation of private veterinarians and for them t
become operational in the dispersed western and northern regions, it was unrealistic to expect that they would havy
the capacity to treat 30 to 50 percent of the cattle population in these regions during the relatively short span of the
project. The main impact of the component was to come from improved health care. The appraisal assumption
that beef exports to EU would continue, if not expand, also did not materialize as that market was closed durinn
project implementation. However, the low project benefits estimated at project completion could become importan
at true full development when significant health coverage is expected. A new benefit, not foreseen at appraisal,
relates to significant calf survival and milk production increases in the extensive zones resulting from water suppll
improvements carried out under the project. The benefits, when combined, could yield high ERRs but need to be
verified further.



22
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement   Section    Covenant   Present   Original    Revised    Description of covenant         Comments
type      status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
DCA         4.02      Financial    CP                              Implementation of       COMODEL  has completed
divestiture program    privatization feasibility studies
for the units earmarked, but
has been superseded by the
Privatization Committee, set
up  under the Privatization
Law, which has not given
priority to their privatization.
4.03      Financial    C                               Hiring freeze           A general freeze is in effect.
4.04 (i)   Financial   CD                              Not grant exemptions for  The 94 budget law raised the
duties on dairy products  level to 30%, as for other
dairy. products.
4.04 (ii)   Financial  CD                              Regulate imports under  An interministerial committee
food aid so as not to  has been created to coordinate
perturb the local market  import and decide on pricing
mechanisms.    The  local
market  is  actually  very
competitive.
4.04 (iii)  Management  CD                             Annual donors meeting    No longer necessary
for coordination of food
aid                                               l
4.05 (i)   Management  CP                              Effectively    enforce  Ongoing
sanitary    protection
regulations at airports                           l
4.05 (ii)   Management  C                              Restrict animal imports,   Ongoing
requiring quarantine, to
air transport arriving at
the airport at Ivato-
Antananarivo.
4.06      Management  C                                Restructuring of DEL.    Effective  since   February
1992.
Schedule  Management  CD         11/94                 Carry  out  mid-term   Completed in April 1995.
4 para. 2                                              review
Schedule  Management  CD        02/95                  Review report of mid-    Completed.
4 para. 3                                              term review with
Government and donors
and take appropriate
corrective actions.
Schedule  Financial    CD                              Cost  recovery   for  Funding for vaccination is no
4 para. 4                                              veterinary services.   longer included in
Government budget.
Producers now pay full cost
of services and drugs, which
are provided by private
veterinarians.
C: complied with        CD: complied after delay         CP: complied with partially



23
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title                  Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No major lack of compliance was observed
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle                                Actual
Weeks                   US$ '000
Preparation to appraisal                            73.9                       164.3
Appraisal                                           18.5                        38.9
Negotiations through Board approval                  5.6                        13.6
Supervision                                        141.9                      418.6
Completion                                           2.0                         5.2
TOTAL                                              241.9                      640.6



24
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of Project  Month/  No. of  Days in   Specialized Staff   Performance Rating      Types of Problems
Cycle        Year   People   Field   Skills Represented
Implem    Devel-
entation   opment
Identification   05/88    2        16       LS, C               n/a       n/a        n/a
Preparation      12/88    1        12       LS, LS              n/a        n/a       n/a
11/89    3       20       LS, V, AE
03/90    2        13       AE, LS
Pre-Appraisal    09/90    6        21       AE, AE, AE, LS, V,  n/a        n/a       n/a
A
Appraisal        01/91    3        18       AE, LS, V           n/a        n/a       n/a
Board approval    05/91 -  2       40       AE, C               n/a        n/a       Delays in fulfillment of
through          08/92                                                               conditionalities concerning
effectiveness                                                                       legislation, legal reformn of
entities, and cross-
effectiveness of cofinancing
_______   ________                          ~~~~~~~~arrangements.
Supervision 1    10/92    1        20       AE                  2         2          Unstable political situation,
inadequate legal framework,
and weak project
management.
Supervision 2    06/93    1        21       AE                  n/a       n/a        Inadequate legal
framework, no cost
recovery for vaccination,
and inappropriate food aid
pricing.
Supervision 3    10/93    2        22       AE, LS              2          1         Weak project management,
inappropriate food aid
pricing, and lack of
monitoring and evaluation.
Supervision 4    05/94    1        30       AE                  U          S         Weak project management
Supervision 5    09/94    1        17       AE                  n/a        n/a       Staff reorganization.
(informal)                                                               __I
Supervision 6    03/95    6        24       AE, A, FOS, LA,    S           S         Weak project management
(mid-term                                   LS, AHS                                  (procurement), absence of
review)                                                                              regulatory framework, and
lack of capacity of other
project entities.
Supervision 7    06/95    4        25       AE, LA, PSS, AHS   S           S         Staff redeployment, animal
health standards and
sanitary inspections and
control.



25
(continued)
Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/  No. of   Days    Specialized Staff    Implem-   Devel-    Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year    People  in          Skills Represented   Entation   opment
l_______           Field
Supervision 8    09/95    2         10      AE, A                n/a        n/a       Insufficient counterpart
(informal)                                                                            funding.
Supervision 9    01/96    2        22       A, E                 S          S         Slow integration of crop
and livestock extension
services, poor roads, and
lack of access to credit.
Supervision 10   06/96    1         10      A                    n/a        n/a       Insufficient counterpart
(informal)                                                                            funding, poor roads, and no
access to credit.
Supervision 11   09/96    1         12      A                    S          S         Insufficient counterpart
funding, poor roads, and no
access to credit
Supervision 12   05/97    1         12      A                    S          S         Staff reorganization, and
slow integration of crop and
livestock extension.
Supervision 13   12/97    2         12      A, V                 S          S         Staff reorganization, and
incidence of bovine
tuberculosis.
Supervision 14   06/98    2         12      A, V                 S          S         Staff reorganization, and
incidence of bovine
tuberculosis.
Supervision 15    11/98    2        12      A, V                 S          S         Stagnating beef production.
Completion      06/99     1         12      A                    S          S
Staff Skills:                         Ratings:
A:  Agriculturist                     I - Insignificant problems
AE: Agricultural Economist            2 - Moderate problems
AHS: Animal Health Specialist         3 - Major problems, appropriate actions being taken
C   : Consultant                      4 - Major problems, not being addressed adequately
E    :Extension Specialist                    S - Satisfactory
FOS: Farmer Organization Specialist   U -Unsatisfactory
LA: Livestock Advisor
LS  : Livestock Specialist
PSS: Priority Setting Specialist
V: Veterinarian



26
Annex 1
Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report
Project Context
I .    IDA credit No. 2243-MAG and NORAD grant TF22065, funding the Livestock Sector Project, were closed
on June 30, 1999. A grace period of four months was granted for completing disbursements. The project had
started in 1993 (reference year). The other partners, aside from the Malagasy Government, included the Fund for
Aid and Cooperation (France) for technical assistance and the French Agency for Development (ex CFD) for a
program of rural track rehabilitation that will continue until 2001.
Presentation of Results
2.    The results are detailed, in grouping all data (implementation, commitment, impact, sustainability and
future prospects) per entity as per the project organization, but grouping by component is also made in a number of
chapters (FIFAMANOR for milk production on the highlands and DEL/PBE for extensive beef production. To
note that disbursements for 1999 refer only to the first three months, the official cutting off date for commitments
by entity decided for the project (earlier commitments were made by CP/PSE regardless of entity).
Project Costs
3.    Including ongoing payments for invoices, the IDA credit and the NORAD grant will be disbursed at,
respectively, 99.18% and 100% by October 31, 1999, subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Categories 1 and 5 of
the IDA credit were overdrawn; due to implementation of activities not foreseen at project start-up, such as IDA
financing of rural track rehabilitation, construction of the National Reference Laboratory, rehabilitation of the
project headquarters at Anosimasina, and decentralization of technical and financial activities of the project to the
regions. This caused an increase in operating costs. The NORAD grant was also overdrawn in categories 1 and 3,
due to the distribution of improved bulls and to the execution of an audit and strategy study for ROMINCO. It
should be noted that these extra disbursements did not affect the overall allocations of the IDA credit and NORAD
grant. In summary, the financial results of the project, up to October 31, 1999, will be as follows:
IDA credit:    US$19.44 million;
CCCE grant:    US$ 0.04 million;
FAC grant:     US$ 1.63 million;
NORAD grant:  US$ 2.05 million;
Government:    US$ 5.11 million
Overall Economic Viability of Project and Results Obtained
4.    The project has yielded significant economic benefits, as shown by an internal economic rate of return
(ERR) of 19%, which is quite acceptable given the important funding of institutional strengthening that has not
directly yielded positive financial flows. The cost of French technical assistance was also included in the
calculation of the ERR, but depreciation charges were excluded. The project had created at the end of 1998 about
18,500 new permanent jobs in the intensive dairy sector. In addition, it generated an additional GDP of more than
FMG 84 billion between 1994 and 1998, or equivalent to 10.5% of the GDP growth, for the livestock/fisheries
sectors for the same period.



27
Milk Production in the Highlands
5.    The bulk of the economic benefits is due to intensive milk production in the milk triangle with an
incremental production calculated in 1999 to be around 14 million liters for a value of FMG 21 billion. The
objective stated in the 1991 appraisal report was thus achieved within the timeframe, while using a less favorable,
but more realistic, starting point for the FIFAMANOR region (1,100 liters of milk per cow per year, instead of the
500 liters assumed in the appraisal report). This sector has a promising future, with an important growth and a
market that is far from being satisfied. World prices of milk powder have been favorable for the project (EU policy
to reduce stocks since 1994), even if a slight fall occurred in 1998 (reduction in demand by the large Asian
importing countries). A detailed note on this matter was submitted to the World Bank in 1997 and 1999 (a project
risk identified in the appraisal report). On the other hand, an important problem that has been well-quantified by
the project, is that of milk quality, which should become the main issue for operators in the sector. Thus, an
interprofession approach for the future would be the only way to resolve the problem, namely through premium
payments for quality. IDA support is requested for that phase. Besides, NORAD funding under bilateral aid has
already been secured for continuation of technical work at producer level (through support to FIFAMANOR).
Extensive Beef Production
6.    Results are below appraisal estimates. The project achieved significant results only on water supply
development which had a clear impact during the dry season. The main results are an increase in milk production
and reduction in the death of calves (incremental production of more than 11 million of liters worth FMG 29 billion
and 21,000 calves saved for a value of FMG 3.3 billion.). The technical themes promoted were not always
appropriate and were programmed only as pilot operations. However, they enabled orientations to be set, namely
for producers who wanted to move to a more intensive production system. The international market was also not
favorable to beef production, as a result of falling prices following the mad cow crisis in Europe, and the ban of
Malagasy beef exports to the EU (still in effect). Finally, activities in specialized subsectors (honey, silk and pig
production) have confirmed their importance for revenue generation in rural areas (poverty reduction), particularly
for women. The project requests IDA involvement in providing technical support to these village activities that can
be readily intensified. CP/PSE has prepared a project on this. This could be carried out in synergy (in the
framework of PADR) with French cooperation that is already supporting (and will continue to do so) the poultry
and pig subsectors in the area of professional organization. The continuation of the water supply development
program will depend on the identification of needs by regional stakeholders in the framework of the regional
preparation teams for PADR..
Institutional Strengthening
7.    Other than the changes in behavior it has brought about, the new sector policy framework put in place by
the project has enabled to strengthen public services in:
*  organization of epidemiological surveillance;
*  collection of statistical data, with publication of the 1998 annual statistics report;
*  programming and evaluation of the sector and of livestock projects, with an effective system  of
implementation and impact indicators, and a consolidated annual report of the program which includes all
donors and projects;
*  training, documentation, and communication;
*  coordination of activities in the sector, namely the evolution of the project into a program as from 1994
through integration of all funding sources and donors. The publication since 1997 of consolidated annual



28
reports, including all activities and donors, is the clearest example.
empowerment of decentralized services, the project having reached a true contracting mode of its activities
and financing with regional livestock services.
8.    The follow-on to IDA financing for certain aspects of institutional strengthening (animal health and food
hygiene) has already been confirmed by EU, which will include the first phase of the bovine tuberculosis control
program under its PASA project.
Main Trends in the Sector
9.     The project has been effective in introducing changes in the sector, namely in:
*  cost recovery in animal health. Until 1993, vaccination and veterinary services were provided, free of
charge, by Government services. The principle of full payment for veterinary services, after a period of
resistance and a sharp drop in vaccination rates, is now accepted by all as confirmed by the sociological
survey and increasing rates of vaccination coverage since 1996 after the brutal drop in 1994;
*  privatization of veterinary practice. Here also, the project has confirmed the feasibility of empowering
the private sector for a number of tasks. This orientation is now well understood in spite of some
understandable reluctance by Government staff concerned over their future.  Support to the process
(without funding for installation) must continue, and IDA support is being requested for this.
*  privatization of Government production units. Unfortunately, project achievements have been below
target. Only the studies have been completed. The final decision rests with the Privatization Committee,
which was created during the project.
*  empowerment of livestock producers. On physical problems (rural tracks, water supply, marketing of
products, ), there has been a significant shift in attitude towards a progressive taking over by beneficiaries,
which can increase with the creation of GTDR (participation in regional projects). The initial participation
of beneficiaries was generally easy to achieve. However, there is much to do to ensure sustainability.
Regrouping of all these professional entities on the same site at Anosimasina is a very good initiative for
future collaboration between the public sector and its private partners. In this process of transfer of
responsibility, a number of technical actions need to be supported.
*  re-focussing of public sector on its permanent functions. Government livestock staff have now well
understood their main functions, even if some progress is still needed in the daily routine.
*  restructuring of the public services that must accompany this "revolution" in operating practice. The
debate on this matter has started and, with access to material from relevant studies carried out under the
project, can be completed within a reasonable timeframe. Funding from EU has been secured to
accompany this phase.
*  decentralization of activities and funding. Through its program contracts (for private and parastatal
entities) and service contracts (for government services), the project has established the practice of
decentralized management (activities and funding) within MinEl and preferential recourse to operators
specialized in project implementation.
The Livestock Project and PADR
10.   The follow-on of livestock development activities of the World Bank will be set within the new approach
for PADR. The project has contributed significantly to the debate on this matter (the Project Coordinator is a
permanent member of the Equipe Permanente de Pilotage and participated in GTC and GTDR). A number of
principles of PADR were already largely applied to the project (decentralization, participatory approach, clear
definition of respective roles of the public and the private sectors). However, as the country moves towards



29
regional autonomy system, a central responsibility or at least a national coordination is mandatory for certain
activities to avoid moving backwards (functions connected with "Competent Authority", national policy of
genetic improvement, control of tuberculosis, and African swine fever, etc.)
The National Coordinator
Livestock Sector Program
Ralambofiringa Arsene (signed)






Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
(Cr. 2243 -MAG)
Borrower's Comments
Borrower's Comments on ICR



Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
RUODLIK'I DMAAGASDURA
Tanura -    ?aafh - d   Yadro
MUSTDEL  DE LFELEAGZ                                     Amanzuivo, it 4 SEP. 1955
SECRETAZ G L
PAWGRAMME SECgORlL EI2VAGE                               Lo Crmmatoa
du Pogmm  Seoidel'evWe
CELLUL DE =OTAGE
B.P. 121
TEA =32573-22."735 1 Ea t221.1L94
1nsicutIg Ip RW 6s=    Raddnt de Is Baque WAd
N -_4_5 0_ /" N 3 & M G/P S Z /C P 31S       1'gntlou de Moeslax Ziva RAZAPIWTSALAMA)
12AM: kapport d'ach&voment du Pojet Sectrt Eleag. - 2$3 1AG
___ . ICK de A Banquo Mondialb
*/L N*155199/NM4EL du 23107/99
Morsieur,
En accusant riception du document cltA on rdf&ace, nous avons I'hozneur do vo  comUnquor
quelquos commentaires et lea rensignns  suppldaestairs requl.
Nou vous oonmons qu il rapport de cZture transrls par Monsur la bfinimo de 1'Etevagc wu
rdfene supra, constitmt b6 rapport de lmpnmteur. , eon aChoet t BDanque mondiale en et destinatrm Cc
rapport contian:
un risurn6 ot lea perspectves du projet,
-  los rdsbations techniques et financires par raport aux objectifs ainsi que I.s impacts, lc bilan et les
parapectivos par agence d'ex6cution du prcet,
-  la rentabilitd les effets Induits et la coot du pro3jet
-  en annex., los tudes, les tuavvx de consultations et Ws formaions affectuEs dan. le cadre du projga
Suit. i votre demande, nou vous oommuniquons l'Evalualon des erormances des bailleurs et cellos
de 1'Empruntcur.
La ficbe joint. donne la suitsion des indicsteurs d'impacu, d6fnie dans l'ICR (Table 6), domen
compldrde et epliqude.
Ndanmoins, quelqucs observaons sur le contenu de cet ICR mdritent d'&re soulign6es:
De 1'exploitatioa oe Is syntbdse des ndicateuns de suivi d'exocution du projet au 30 juin 1999 (base do
donndes, locaux des r6gions rd&abiiit, points d'abreuvemenr, membres des usociadons, associations or
lgroupements, finances rurales, ...), nous vous t-annmttons ci-joli un tbleau r6capltulatK Identifian Is
contnbution de chaque pVnafre finanler. sur la base de I'adhision & 1'exncution de la Dclaration de
Politique Sectorielle. Lca donn6o ainsi foumnics sont on cohErence parfte aux informadio  d6crites danA le
rappor de clate su-rfIrenci6.
Quelques transcriptions sont A ajuster. Ainsi, au point 28: 206 km de pistes ont &6 rihabilit6cs au lieu de
216 kn, at qu'il y a Ueu de lire 87 cenrs et points de colecto au lieu de 86, au paragraphe 29,



Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
Concruant la rm rccumu des lntudona, point 10 do aEvatio# mazumy V    .C point Is dA ii Pat IX.
l'opaonal  du cmntreo da a   a mntm     4onaaes d do                        u  pea 66 p's 'a
ooalddiato. Ausui l eat ndesaai  de soulipr 1'odez u          fta   va   a fomiatos an
cascadet ls p   satio he fonatios local. toucha  -un plus gand nomb  de bdcairo  at sur dei
thAme IdontifTa par MIM w&m&
-   Sur lea 1ipns appzisat du prot pO  45 deoatBe t Ils .routil a OWD pmwo ou conw  de ervice i,
utihsi p~ar los agance. d     ' xdwIou~4~p . P to oblie i aindre [ous objeWt: la tasmparene du
proeddures pour une   z d'pplic       h slon un oronogruamoe concert.
*  Sur Iss saatages ecaCb o eonomique du pr.jot (table *), Ib tux d rentabilit intome (rRI) du projet sa
de 9Igo ca,uld xar IL boea dt 10  m mas non Sur 9 ML Dan s on  lm   o     Wi              e
s*Ial et au ddvsloppem t niul en pedariliar, ous ntmn     quo la pr aet * cr  it.905     ols
permo      t loanan t   vao   jt& addWounle eat o nd 2 go   mllier   MG. So pan, dano s  cIsanc du P
du saoctw dlevApAMe  I, p*iode 1994 -I99s ,e s o. u    12i,I   clle.du PI  dtu Wcrw pdakr pow [a
m5m pdriode co de 3.64 et deo o de 0,9/%, rPport    u PID nmaL pour le temps asddndi.
La paraples qu suivenm wprlment ans jug  baustvu l'vahlustion des pnormces:
1 -Ev pluzion de pggmnna de lis Eaqu modslaeA;a Ems w. e,ui-ers
En collaborgtion gsre IEt*  phulurs pa;nara techzqus et fincias (baillrs de fonds) oam
appot leur contibution daa le d6veloppeane du soateur diame. en iotavnet dans os proets bien ddflnia
at spdcifiques rassemblds en up sal progmme sur la bae d'une seal. Ddcearadon do PoltIque Sectmiolle
savant de r6firczile. Cae panonare so= ls Banque MondiAsle, Is NORAD, le Fonds dAide et de Coopdralion
Pranss., I'Agoce Frangailo pour le Diveloppement at ['Union Europdes. Saul, le projet do dvloppem
de la production 1aiare ousour des ptindpaux enres de consommation dam too bass  trer, pr&vu k hro
financh par la Banque Africane pour It Divelopp.tmo   n'a pu dftaTd.
En se rif&am: au projet sectoriel 6leove, les reuhltat son sot liacatift. Cola eut dO principalesnen aux-
perfomacus eso bailleun: Bnque Mfndiale, NORAD a Fonds dAido ea do Coopdradon FrsaI   sur;
I sa flcxibilitc de getion suivant les besoims de I'ampmnreur: amwndoment de i'.ccord de crkdit IDA,
I'-valuation i mi-parcours et les missions de supeoion successives dont I'.t6tion des principale.
recommandations r6pondait aux besoins r6els dos bdndficinlres du projet, tels que leas points d'abreuvonent,
los Snaaces rzurales, 1l rdhabilitation des pistes latiks, I'amdlioration d lea coordinadon du projet, la
ddcantraliuation des activtAs teiques et fIsoci&.ss du projet mu niveau des "Mrices rdgionaux;
l a misc en place d'un chargd du projet au niveau de la mission rusident. & Madagasa  faeiit le contact et
la prise de ddtcsion, sins! quo Is difriuion dos informations lrs des reuons pdriodiques ou des reWus de
pore(cuUle;
-        clacificazion des astributions ct l'appui des usistances teniques;
-  la reprise des r6habilitations d'uae partie des plstes Itiieros par la Banque Moda, travaux pr*hw  sa
financement de I'Agence Fran:aiso pour le Ddvloppeoment qui a dtd d6iermnisaate pour la maltrtse de ls
fliere laIt et la concrdtisation des productions additionnelles.
2- Fvalustion de IA nerfomae de V'Enmunte
Dans l'oesomble, l performance de l'Emprunteur est satisfaisante. Au ddmaxrage du projot, des
probl6mes doonomiques at institutionnls s'Ialent manifestds. L'Emprateur a r6solu Is problime des fonds de
comm parze, faceur limitant du d6caisseraent, co qui permetrait d'aligner la prdvision de d6caissament des
bailleurs et Ie dicais3emern r6el.
La gestion du projer en programme a dclairci les r6sultats aizendus et a donn confiance h l'Empruneur.
ta consolidation des acquis et leur intigraWon dans le proceaus actual d'elaboration du plan d'action pour It
dd%vloppament nura (PAD3), traduit ia votonti de 1'Emprunteur. Afin de maltenlr Is dynamique de l'*vohltion,
une requ&t de PPF a. etr introduite par is latmetNr 056AvM JSGIGT/DDTitMH du 22 juin 1999.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
Ern so  appoa         damiquoet fin 1998et au d        uanJe bas td. areww    du
poTW le do projes finAcs par laBanque Moiale du 26 Ma 1999, dfctu6s pars le  minim deo Fmiae
at de rEconomin.
-  Le   rozr-   an pwwnw anib fin 1995  Wm s iVaMi             des ac#WMs at dasTXem
aw6 la ifLs an place du wU"afp?0O'ma .tdes co   de jervic  muwas andi hikn a, eodiaboe4iUon
ac kI         r           tcb qW kI ONG.I kas rgmw de    kis &tsyks
qwtlzw duaazfravs ttqw   lawMz .wvwm  o  et~ rdivvaNlm
Le P'ogwved                        do  iiVAis nd swbrwu dmin., no
trveton        :s: u-_arkcsal du                           n       
v di counwtcevaciswk d'aewMllI*fRquedsits    awdIIkwa    gsdM ut d f
I'aliantan anua, AdzL enplA  dim nwnb,e hi   Avde &*Awb          s
L La *Wse as ww de lapoatqu seetic& a Id ha ac ipnflcu4frIo co Is iatll.
Ea usaouahaizm mm boon   tion d. kpiLe noe qul fam paile intdgrme du downm  de
rappot de cltm du projet, vullea api , mw, nos melw= onh L
- Tablea d'inzdicaieurs d'impacw
- Tbleu   des indiceurs do suin d'aecutio (C3 pages)
Monsieur le Socr*aitw Qddal du MNEL
4 A tite de Compte Rendu                                    R       BOFIRINrBA Ar



PROGRMMM  SECTORIEL ELEVAGE
iYDICATEURS W'IMPACTS
Indlcauro                            Sihuatin initials    ObIectif du projet  Situation fin prolet    Observations
1   -  ProductIn   bovin   it tlo                             __ _ _  _ __  _    _  __ _  _ _  _ _   _ _  _ __  _ _ _  _
- TauxCde Mor_l__d_o_veaux                                         23-24%              15%                   NO
- Tao do morttldl6 des anknaux k6s dun an                           67%        4_6            _ _ _          ND
- Tom de ntati0                                                    62,50%              64%                   ND
- Production d lai                                                500 itres1t?tt &   600 lit os            680 litres          (2)
Au&neny tIon de Ia producgion                                                      80.000 tAles          21.500 letes
- Augmye=g-ion du rvenu dos productoure ME Un troLeau do 50 Was                   100 A 200 USDlan      573,68 USDlan          (4)
2- Prodctio Ialro (S 'w  k         O                          _                                              .
- ProduCtion      de lal    j            _                    500 litresAiachl/an   2.000 litresJvachelan  1.948 lilreslvadielan    ( 5)
- Production addtionnrlle onait                  .-                               32.000 (ornneslan    20.640 tonnes/an         (6,
- Augmentation du revenu adctioi'me  de  producteurs                                    ND             211 USDJvache/an         (7)
(1). (2), (3) at (4): Cf. Rapport d clOture du projel, page: 21
(1): Aucoie d'rne6e Iabbe rfaxsle potr vkditer fivolilon des mortalits 0t des natatitAs; mals reffet de l'abreuvement a un impact positif sur la diminution du taux de
rnortat el ram6lorallon de Ia natallt6 des ankiau
(2): La productlon addilonnlie par vache en -lactaton par an est de iOa litres, en consid6rent 1,5 litre par Jour pat vacho en lactation pendant 4 mois de saison seche.
(3): Ce revenu addklloml englobe lto oducton de lbit et do viande.
(4): La revenu addWiUonr  dos producdein par repoductrice et par an est do 232.000 FMG. Pour un troupeaux de 50 tWeas, dont 30% dos effectifs constituent des
reproductdloes, soil 1S reprductrlces, et avec un taux de change 1 USD - 6066,05 FMG, le revenu addilionnel esl 573,68 USD [(23ZO00/6066,05)'151.
(5), (6) et (7): Cf. Rapport de.o lture du prol,t pages: 16 et 17
(5): La producUon moyenne mnruse par vache entre 1993 et 1999 vare de 1100 i  3000 litres, en fonction des productions par type g6n6tique at importance relative
de chaque Iype.
(6): lUpectli sera atteint en 8 ens avec rhypothiso de base ou en 10 ens avec rhypothAse lent..
(7): Le revenu addilionnel arwiul par vache dos producteurs est de 1.280.000 FMG, soil 211 USD avec le laux de change I USD = 6066,05 FMG.
,1/



Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
2.Composante Producton bovine extnsive at a_ ui '6lava   dessa &cAs b    i. court
uumx          lndicateurs d6 at ac_v|- Projate..                   l u IJ      "      s 
-    n         Ihi rL wnI RS
- Infraa&Utrfuru d'wpulI n satltonnel
MA.+pW  iocaux r6gloriaux r6habllitdw                      nb  1 51   Rl   4
FM     ~-CIRELs r6habolt6es et conistruite    OE                                   100
IOA    IP                     b                            rib      21    31    35  112,90
FED                   _ dELSO    rb                                         2          50,00
_ 9nd                                         _  -._
IDA   46eour mernbres des assodatns _DEUPE  'nb                    2522  500  2645  62900
IDA    associaton   iveurs bo_vs       s         DE"PS    rnb       36    38   187   19,44
FED    groupements d'61.veurs IdOntissb                             33    8       44   53b01
FED    (leveurs membres des gupemerAs Lars         OEM     nb     2000  3000  2226    4
FED    pha;macies r*munautaires Viiiaois         0EL30     nb       40    60    70  116,67
MCAC  groupe=ents membres dejo MPE               PARCC   nb/an    250   250   101   4040
MCAC   n                                         PA8CC    nb        as      WE    70   79_56
AJndnagement du mileu
FED    Purts ot barrag= de rtenues               ohEso   rnb  1   40    27    20   74,07
FED    abreuvoirs et amOnOgement des mares      OELSONSP   nbb. 1   241   tl    181 100.00
FED    abattoirs municiaux construits           DVLSO   fnb          s      s      s ,100.00
IDA    Points nrbrsuvement Install6s             DEUpSE    rb  [   36    72    50   69.44
Amflioratfon de aprductivt6:g4n4ftue
FED    Ins6mination artificife cbvres An _      = OISO   nbian    225   137    51   37.23
IDA    sous centres dinsamination artici.lle     DELUPBE Inb         2      3      6S  200,00
IDA    femelles Ins4min6es                       DE[E    nb        100   400   574  143,50
MC    AgmntetdfUsionderer                        PAECC    nb       500   500   479   96580
FED    Approvisionnementananimaux am6lorsI      DELSO I  nb   30 000 220000 22075  100,34
IDA    {parcelles de dmonstration fburr esI DELtPBE    ha           36    12    92  766,67
IDA    demonstde traitement deopaille i rure     DELAPSE    nb      12    60   222  37000
FED   lioumal agro-pastoral                      DELSO    nib       18    22   - 22  10O.0
CFD   lasyee   airspeiirsdsaiet                   PSA      nib     500   100    23 230
MCAC  r6union technique per sous filhlbr         PAECC    nib       50    50,   41   SZOO
MOAC  foration .  ant& w rimal.at n&*dt' Mm9ag   PAECC    nib       27i   27    47i 174,07
MCAC  lelevagessuivis totaux                     PAECC   rnb       224   579   7471 129,02
MCAC  formnuies crallments diffuss4es       -    PAECC    ri         01  170   317t -186,47
IDA    Ith&mes recherche d6veloppernent rAiisp's  FOFMDRzv  nbWan   .22    1s    10   62.50
FED    cr6dit deeromotiondu secteur p&I DELSO |nb                  114    67    50   74,63
FED     cr6dit de promotlon du secteur Prlv6     DO IO M'mg1 1334   494   544  11012
FED    crAdit rural: convention avoCONGCIDR      mm-sO    Mft   |  300   156   156  $0000
MCAC  recherche-d6veloppement: 6tudes filiires   PACC I                     -b
FED    abattairs municipaux construits          -EI.So    nb        15,    51    5
TbordOB99



Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
nROGRAME SECTORIEL ELEVAGE
lndlcateurs de suivi d'e,dcution
1. Composanto R4forme seCtoriell, at renfomement des ins _tutionsT
FINEX     Indicateurs eMts at aCtivit4s  Projets     U
lco~~~~~~ Endt6s  I                         -w  I" few [W luln-99 Ira 
Cuvo,tu,e sanitaire of srvllne   d       'ue
iDA    Laboratoire National                   t      %  I 10C             45    45,00
IoA+FED LaboratoIres r6gionaux totaux    _   +o      nb      12    9       9   100
AnDsiranana                     ELSO        nb       3             I   100.00
MahaaNea                      DEIA          nb       1    I       1   100-zoo
Toamsina                       i            nb       2     2      2   T1O00g
Fianarantswa                  DEISA-   nb            i       1 =    1   100,0C
Antananarivo                  DEUSAb_ n                 1      1     1000
Toliary_                      DELSO         nb       3    3 _     3  1000
IDA    Station de quarantaine          DEUSA        %      10100   100 O
IDA.FED Equipes mobiles cr66es         DELJSA+DELSO  nb                    8   10O,OC
FED    Couloir de vaccination          DELSO        rib     38            20    52,63
Etudes. luttes contre maladies A incidence grave
Tuberculose bovine
IOA+FED Postes vitfrinaires enquit&s   DELuSA+LSO  nb I 243 _             43L  1000
IDA+FED Carte p_d6miooglQue            EuSA+DLSO  Jnb         1         1   |1O,OC
DA+FEDi roiet de lutte: essal vaccinal  OEUSA+OELso   %    100  _5                 ,
Maladies charbonnevses
IDA+FED Postes v6t6rinaires enqu&s     O1JSA+OE1.So  nb    2431                  1000
IOA+FED Carte epid6miologique          DELjsA+osLSO jnblan   2       __           b,o
I__  _I    FI*vee de /a VaIlee du  Rift  __-
IOA+FED Postes veterinaires enqu&t&s  ODEUSA+DELSO  nbb   1001      I              0C
IDA+FED rCarte 6piddmtologUue          OFiJSA+OLsoj nb      I              1   100,0C
I  l      Ma/adie de TESCHEN
exploltation donn6es pilotes    DELISA    I%        100i           0    100
programme d'4radication         DEL/SA       %  I1001               5      50
___Pathologies des petits rumninants
FED    Pr6l6vernents et analyses r4alis6es   DES     b160                 131    2,17
Prnvatisation virdt6inalre
IDA    mandats sanitaires attribu4s   IDEL/SA       rib  I901 
IDA    v46t6rinaires priv6s install6s  ICEPRO '/T rb  I90           I--o 100
FED   auxllliaires formds             IDELSO        nib 1201               5     250
___Distribution dvintrants
FED   Centres de gros                  DEL.SO _ _Inb         31   31       3   10000o
Pnivatlsation des centres de production'
IDA    entit6s 6tudi6es               ICOMODE-L  rI b       28     6      171   60.71
IDA   lentitds privatis6es            ICOMODEL f nb  t281  201             21    7.14
D>ocumentation et ban quo de doannes snir /Wt~e vage111
IDA    centre de documentation        JDELJRENF    nib       I              i  100,
IDA    antennes r6glonales crddes     JDEUJRENF j rb        27              J  100,0
IDA    bangue-de dann6es              jDEL/RENF    %                I12~L  1001  100,00
Aba ttoirv et commercialisation  _01__30_00
FED   Abattoirs construits et 6quip6s  PEQUAVS      %      I0
FED    Soiftd  'x otJo PEOUAVS    nib                                      Sj100
10 X Llhnnie i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~010
FED   inspecteurs sanitaires form6s    PEQUAVS tnb           7             79  100,00
1/3                                                                           Thordf699



Annex 2
3.   osarnt U6v01   emoertt d. L         prduetioniti&e                                                  Page 8 of 8
FINEX        -hedkaauwo Mi  aS actuvfto              PrrlFMwoR   U          Ob25    R25            958
_                                ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~t Entillils Iinhisa  I rdvigs |li  Rdal
IDA      dome   des  rod.Ios        tteFiMANR                     nb     014001  912000     230 2iJ
IDA        zonA FIAMNR..irb  1                                             450C   2SOC    25431  101.72
NORAD   femefle salbes    s=                        FIFA_OMA      nb      5000     0      5908 .   116
rDA       zo  FFM\RAl                                             nb _      250    250 _  -245        I
LOA       zone ROmI                                               nb        Go      eo      591      semi
DO                         -                          uloa^ROW     o       us    153    ig9  I      7J=7
IDAD      zo 191AMANOR                               PA           r nb    4 0S       40    25       72.85
RDAD    zenela RO6MAno                              PiFoAMA       rb       130   1000      70t6    70661
(OA _    gtS ons awmde                              I sr^+O       nb         is  _17         i
001       zone       NORI                  _       _FA  .         nb:         3       2       a     1O
PDA       zoneRM                                      O           nb        12       is800
IDA     larorc    omwm u      res                   FIFAROMA      nb        1135    181     16i    978
IDA        zone FIeA NRiR FICA                                    nb         31      31       0       0,7
DA         zone ROA                                 ROW           nb        U7       75 _    tO    156
AORAD     _ anbias de     fou,c5o                   FIFAMddOn               513AF0dn
NORAD Droduciotisemd.  ti de  matEr5                 nFAUMANR  Ri                   12 4-I3924
IDA   _ _ s        IWe i I                          R_  _       _4-    SWe1114aRr14          1      782
AOMAO   LeM  doe uOtnuo rnsormiat o                   OAMANOR     nb          t       1 _      1    10606.
AORAD   mtlons aftne s concF n I Ids    uls s       R0FAP R   nbhn  111             1 tJ...8  1     13220
NR       tuexetaptsAIs erd0t                        FAMNOR        nb        21      265     254  95.;
NORD    doses smences cona s  "s produe e            FROIuAIANR   nb       am 93O            230 2J#
NORAD   atolfle de bIFo0techerMe AJ                               nb      S       0000 S000053031    110J A
08qIOR    zone ROMA                                 ROAs          nb _       = S00 s5       2    _59
NORtAD    zone   =MAO                               FIFAMANOR     nb      45000  45C000  325           .3
NORAD   femelleS In"min6as                           FIFIAMNOR    nb       3000  10000    706t       70,eE
PioCes dt co mme Iai fon            --
NO       apu aux lati&esrhbiles                     I ROMINCO  1--nb          3i     73T       a      0.00
CA   22!rftiSde lst rihadilitL   e aoeson        nostAf    L- Km   j      75      5       llI49
I Vdftaderokcgf n dws 1 CMII cdre  Fon  mties de      I      fEevago 
IDA     lOointw de callece aq  de mtils Ps          ROMAP         nb   I                     7      1
can   ___  __ ___  __  ____t___      ___                r R4OM    4A10
IDA      e81 cltsS                                                                   14i e1s78.7
[IOA     centes  colliectv     aformation                         nb         73   32          27   10007
0-A iIm ilaRerles FPE ktalds                       bROPE         1            2      12       1   100.00
IDA      r_nvembreew edht a desesImgnb                                       30i  60          94    1123s
IIOA   [atefer de fabrtmffon de pftmadcher            IR                O    U4n Ib  20   3  3      10C0C
IAPO     -ost laiSres r6habjIk6                    IROMvtPe  IKm r   I   10001   4501            10219
____C8sWCUwCtJ8070126137
IDA               re                                           ..ift6s  AOAMl.I m    1801   2197    1230 24
I  IFERT         _                             FERT       __nb  |       271    27       27  1 tW,o
woccu                woccu        nb          a       a        a    '~~~~~~1QT 100 oc
r  Cafts" FERT                              "A0  =    RT  I _nb     6 00-   3600    39741   110,3
Cisses                        I WOCCU                  _b  __    100              16      13.07
fDA      montbnt enumuliens FmilIn  ri ftarna  oWe    ES __ _ MfM          1717   2358    1315   271327
Caisses PERT                             FERT        Mfma I      280    280      4558   e24.1
Caro -l DID                              DID                      37 78    11554   382.5
Ce4sees WOCCU                            woccu       MIM                  17      27    -S
IDA      nombre cumuIl de orv ts octlrvns                                 I7 rI b  1 7650   9-  6125  68
CalSses FERT                             PERT      Inb          41000  64001   57201   10S.
Caisses DID                              DID       Inb          42501  2258      3892    172
r  ICases FERT                           P: 0|ERT        I  rMfn     1C010  1080    26581   246,11 
Cls | a#DID                    _f-                         Mfa; _ 3_78                 4a        2D
r  Tcaissesw-c WO--U    Iwoccu                                                 60'nw    --a     ---_5
rCdlsses fERT                   =               IErrs                                           brioT -L461  4.640
_____   Caisses WOCCU                               WOCCU         nb       r300-              0       000
3,3                                                                                                 Tbordo699



IBRD 16926R
,12-                                  MADAGASCAR                                                                           ,         ,-                                    12'*
RELIEF, WATERCOURSES AND RAINFALL                                                                                     firnona
R& MC/ COURS D'CA U IFT PIU VIOSIE T<V1
Roinf.11 :                            Ele-oti.., in met-r:                                 G                         '
Pl-viosltgf:                           Altitud.  en , re:\                                         (    
205 ,       Centimefers Per y.a l,l_                 >1800                                 NOSY-8E  Q(Amobe 
CenDmetres por on   | EF     1200-1800                               Hell,vi      I/ S         il ._; t;\X   Vohmr
Che,,'n de fer              _- 6 00ol2S>,   /t
--.Riwes                                                                                      ,,     ,     5        Z  
flevves et riire                                                                                     '               e, '6
Aeropor, <>t ; >r2,<5  
N.tFoiron.l cproitc)opiri                                                 nllvgx             ,f       r          E        >       
chae-lier de foienvIr)nt sh  r+/94                                                                     1t\ t r 
F-rirony bound.ries                                                  /   fJ          /        >               wr?            Anfoloha
_ -Ite osol bdnqres Eaajna >tfarnn 
F1                   f _4rSgOnTmoi;XrAHK ~~~~~~~~sS;S  1}SW<   t                                                                                 /e't~P.,
ci   ;/z4~~~~ /lM t Xiloinrt [ wB019
( t o^jS                                   L) .           C          enoorimp   tsinonan
MointirvnoOF                                                      AStT ,kSA  tE@ ~M
! I~~~~~~~i .Q  ,' izoi u<oms
Morondovo0> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I                              I*o                                 Toamasina
-   n    Maniqa                        FIoXqn~~~~~~~0            A 4 tra                        V04aanar
T 0 AAb ?.            1    XA A R YN T             7 A!-SlS
' S  S W: 5ig?ahi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-o                                       KILOMETERS   O   50        100     150    200
s1 o,.      ,.f.Iqno>' ,\ l 
TolirJry3                                                                        g.t42 loaind,.n.
< 0 Betioky r: iv  {, ...... N. At ie i rt ...........ZAIR4 TANZANIA                                  1\ C9 /A Al
ro a v-bfln  prd by                           i f9_/ 5 JAWl 7CMO
and Ifr htm0bh1 Fhrreb              A                                      t ni        r                
C-mrev TM dr-rmbos-                 AmpsoiyS                                WJf>sZMAWs:O                                                           Cncnnrw
rn.fmad.  ntmy,t d th. I-Id-sryiu ch  /1s                                                                                                             n    -6_ .*
ny~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC 1991 9. W



