Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9424-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 18, 1991
Africa Region
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Agricultural Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and maN be used bv recipients only in the perfornance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit                     =          Madagascar (FMG)
100 FMG                           -          US$0.067
1 US$                             =          1494 FMG (average 1990 rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 are (a)                         -          0.0247 acre
l hectare (ha)                    -          2.47 acre
I kilometer (km)                  =          0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)          =          0.39 square mile
l kilogram (kg)                   =          2.20 pounds
l liter (1)                       =          0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
1 ton (t)                         =          2,240 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



MADAGASCAR                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROIECT
STAFF APPRAISAL. REPORT
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                  African Development Bank
AI                   Artificial insemination
BCL                  Central Dairy Office (Bureau central laitier)
BTM                 National Agricultural Bank
CCC8                 Caisse centrale de Coopération économique (French Development Fund)
CCIA                 Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agrculture
CEPROVET            Veterinary Promotion Center (Centre de Promotion vétérinaire)
CPTEL               Livestock Technical Training Center (Centre de Formation Technique d'élevage)
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CIREL                Livestock District Office (Circonscription d'Élevage)
CNIA                 National Artificial Insemination Center (Centre national d'insémination artificiclle)
COMODEL              Livestock Sector Divestiture Committee (Commission de Mise en Oeuvre du Désengagement de
l'État dans le secteur Élevage)
CONACOLAIT           National Committee of Dairy Producers Associations (Comité National de Suivi et de
Coordination des Associations de Producteurs laitiers à Madagascar)
CPR                  Center for the Production of breeding stock (Centre pépinière de reproducteurs)
DEL                  Livestock Directorate (Direction de l'Élevage)
DEPF                 Financing, Programming and Studies Directorate (Direction des Études, de la Programmation
et du Financement, MPAEF)
DRZV                 Livestock Research Directorate (Direction de la recherche zootechnique et vtérinaire)
EA,P                 Environmental Action Plan
EC                   European Community
ESSA                 Faculty of Agronomy (École Supérieure des Sciences Agricoles)
FAO                  Food and Agriculture Organization
FEO                  Omby State Farm (Ferme d'État Omby>
FIFAMANOR            Dairy and Agricultural Extension Project (Projet d'Assistance Norvégienne au Développement
de l'Agriculture sur les Hauts-Plateaux)
FOFIFA               National Center for Applied Research for Rural Development
GATT                General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GDP                  Gross Domestic Produet
GNP                 Gross National Product
GOM                  Government of Madagascar
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILO                  International Labor Organization
ILS                 International or Local Shopping
LALASOA             Lalasoa Dairy Company
LCB                  Local Competitive Bidding
LCV                  Central Veterinary Laboratory (Laboratoire Central Vétérinaire)
MCD                 French Ministry for Cooperation and Development (Ministère de la Coopération et du
Dévelopment, Paris)
MinAgn              Ministry of Agriculture
MPAEF                Ministry of Animal Production, Water and Foresta (Ministère de la Production Animale et des
Eaux et Forêts)
MRSTD                Scientific Research Ministry (Ministère de la Recherche Scientifique et Technologique pour le
Développement)
NORAD               Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
ONVM                Malagasy National Veterinary Order (Ordre National des Vtérinaires Malgaches)
PCV                 Central Veterinary Pharmacy (Pharmacie Centrale Vétérinaire)
PIP                  Public Investment Program
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PSAC                Public Sector Adjustment Credit
ROMA                Malagasy Dairy (Ronono Malagasy)
ROMANOR             Norwegian Malagasy Dairy Project
SMPL                Dairy Production Malagasy Company (Société Malgache de Production Laitière)
SPEL                Provincial Veterinary Service (Service Provincial de l'Élevage)
SVM                  Morondava Veterinary Station (Station Vétérinaire de Morondava)
WPP                 World Food Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise bh disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pacte
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ..............................i
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project background   .....     .........................
B. Economic background   .............................        1
General  ......................................          1
Economic performance   .........................         1
Structural Adjustment policies and results   ...         2
The Agricultural Sector   ....     ..................    2
C. The livestock sector   ............................        3
Livestock in the economy   ....     .................    3
Livestock production and constraints   ...  ......       3
Institutional framework  ....      ..................    4
Provision of Credit  ..........................          5
Prices and Incentives  ........................          6
Donors Support to the Livestock Sector      .......      6
Bank Group involvement ........................          7
II. TI:E PROJECT
A. Project rationale   ...............................        7
B. Project objective and main features   ....   .........     8
C. Summary project description   ....     .................   8
D. Sector policies and institutional reforms     ........     9
Redefinition of respective responsibilities ...          9
Competition and the incentive framework    .......       9
Promoting farmers associations ....     ............     9
Privatization of the veterinary profession   ....       10
Costs  recovery  ................................       10
The Government Divestiture process ....    ........     10
Sanitary protection ...........................         il
E. Institution building component ....      ...............  12
Strengthening the Livestock Directorate    ......       12
Monitoring and evaluation ....      .................   12
Privatization of veterinary medicine      .........     12
The government divestiture program   ...........        13
Formal training review  .......................         13
F. Production development component ....     .............   13
Support to extensive production systems   ......        13
Dairy development program   ....     ................   14
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission undertaken in
Januatry 1991 by a team consisting of Messrs. M. Siméon (Mission leader), G.
Deshatyes (Cooperatives specialist, consultant) and J. Vea lLivestock
specialist, consultant). The lead adviser is C. de Haan (Livestock
Development Adviser, AGR). Peer review was carried out by Messrs M. Wilson
(LA4AG) and S. Bekure (AF4AG). The Director and Division Chief of the
responsible department and division are F. Aguirre-Sacasa and A. Otten,
respectively.



III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost estimates    ......      ............................     16
B. Financing   ....................................................  17
C. Procurement    .................... . .*.....................*  18
D. Diobursement    ......     ..............................      20
E. Accounting and Audit    .....      .......................     21
F. Project impact on Government budget     ...........  ..        21
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General          ..........................................    22
B. Detailed institutional and implementation arrangements         23
Livestock Directorate    ........................           23
Programming and Studies Directorate (DEPF) ....             23
Public support to Dairy development ............            23
Livestock Development Fund     ....     ...............     24
ONVM and CEPROVET .............................             25
Training review ...............................             25
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
A. Incremental production    ..........................           25
B. Financial and economic benefits     ....      .............    26
C. Environmental impact    ............................           26
D. Risks .......                                                  27
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER. CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS    ......................................          27
ANNEXES
1.   Sector policy statement
2.   Divestiture program
3.   The economics of dairy production
4.   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
5.   Cost tables
6.   Environmental assessment
7.   Supervision plan
8.   Documents contained in the project file
Maps



MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower :          Madagascar
Benef iciarv        Ministry of Animal Production, Waters and Forests (MPAEF)
Credit Amount :     US$ 19.8 million, equivalent to SDR 14.0 million
Terme :             Standard IDA terme
Cofinancin:         French Ministry for Cooperation and Development (MCD)
Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (CCCE, France)
Norwegian Agency for Development (NORAD)
Proiect description:    The main objective of the project is to promote
livestock production for domestic consumption and
exports. The project would consist of a package of
policy and institutional reforms, supported by two
components, one for institution building and one for
production development. The project would be coordinated
with several free-standing livestock projecte to be
financed in parallel by other donors.
The main volicv reforme are : (i) the redefinition of
respective responsibilities of government and the
private sector; encouragement of farmers associations to
take over responsibilities in such areas as feed mixing
and distribution, fodder seed multiplication, cattle
breed improvement and milk collection; encouragement of
veterinarians to establish themselves as private
practitioners; streamlining of public sector entities
dealing with production or marketing; and (ii) the
incentive    framework   should    allow   market-based
competition; this would require that suitable pricing
mechanisme be established for dairy producte imported
under food aid or subsidized surpluses.
The institution strenathenina component would:
- improve the capacity of the Livestock Directorate
(DEL) and the Programming and Studies Directorate (DEPF)
in the Ministry of Livestock, Water and Foreste (MPAEF);
- promote private veterinary practice;
- review and reform formal training in livestock and
veterinary science; and
- support streamlining the role of government in the
sector.
The production development component would include:
- support to extensive cattle production systeme, mainly
through improved disease control in the western and
northern regions;
- dairy development in the central highlands, by
strengthening dairy producers associations and improving
milk collection (access tracks, chilling centers), feed
oupply and breeding services;
Proiect area i      The project would be    national in scope. It would be
part of a sector program made of several coordinated
parallel projects.



Estimated Proiect Costs a/
Local     Foreian         Total
----------(US$ million)----------
Production development              12.2        11.3         23.5
Institution building                 3.4         5.2          8.6
Base cost                           15.6        16.5         32.1
Physical contingencies               0.9         0.9          1.8
Price contingencies                  1.6         3.1          4.7
Total Project Costa                 18.1        20.5         38.6
a/  Includes USS 6.6 million of taxes and duties and US$ 400,000 for a PPF.
Financina Plan
Local          Foreian         Total
----------------- (US$million) ------------
Government                           7.5            0.1            7.6
Other Donors                         1.4            7.2            8.6
IDA                                  6.7           13.1           19.8
Farmers contribution                 2.5            0.1            2.6
Total                               18.1           20.5           38.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY92     FY93     FY94     FY95     FY96     FY97      FY98
--------------------------(US$ million)-------------------
Annual        0.4      1.6      2.4       3.9      4.8      4.7       2.0
Cumulative    0.4      2.0      4.4      8.3      13.1     17.8      19.8
%           2        10       22       42        66       90       100
Proiect Benefits    The proposed project would benefit a large percentage of
livestock producers. Veterinary privatization and
training would provide a higher standard of veterinary
services particularly to dairy, pigs and poultry
producers and would improve both the distribution of
drugs and the execution of disease control programe.
Improved dairy production, collection and marketing
would   significantly   increase   rural   income    and
employment; it would directly benefit some 14,000 farm
families. The project would also have important equity
aspects since the role of women in animal husbandry is
as important as that of men.
By reducing the role of government in livestock
development, the project would froe public resources for
other priority tasks.
Under an improved incentive framework, the sub-sector
would contribute significantly to import substitution
and exports, while increased domestic consumption would
have a positive impact on nutrition.



iii
Environmental impact:   By improving forage production, the project would
both reduce pressure on natural rangeland and improve
the sustainability of mixed farming systems in highly
populated  areas  of  the  country.    In areas under
extensive cattle production systems, present sanitary
conditions are such that improved animal health is not
expected to result in dramatic cattle population growth
which would be damaging for the environment; rather, the
project aims at increasing productivity from the
existing animal population through better herd and
pasture management.    A study of the behaviors and
motivations behind bush fires is expected to bring
better understanding of this major problem. The project
would not touch upon areas where biodiversity protection
is a major concern of the Environment Action Program
(EAP) now under implementation. It would benefit from
the institution building activities of the EAP in the
areas of natural resources monitoring and land use
rights.
Project risks       A major risk would be lack of response from the private
sector.     Improving   the   incentive  framework   by
introducing market determined prices for dairy products
should greatly reduce this risk.   Another risk arises
from the weak implementation capacity of the Livestock
Ministry. This risk would be mitigated by project
conditionality to have governnent take the most
important legal and policy decisions before project
start-up, by a sizable technical assistance and training
program and by the transfer of many tasks to non-
government entities.



MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project backeround
1.01       The government of Madagascar has requested IDA assistance in financing a livestock
project to support its objective of increasing meat and milk production. To achieve this objective,
government plans to strengthen the role of the private sector and rationalize and improve public sector
serviices. The World Bank has assisted in the formulation of new policies and project proposals
through the secondment, from 1986 to 1990, of a Bank's livestock specialist assigned to MPAEF to
advise on livestock sector planning and on government services organization. The Bank also financed
(under Credit 1211-MAG and PPF) a number of detailed sub-sector analyses and specific studies,
which form the core of the project's preparatory work.
B. Economic background
General
1.02       Madagascar covers an area of 590,000 km2 (slightly larger than France). An island
more than 1500 km long, it is characterized by its great diversity in terms of climate, soils and
topography. Rainfall varies from that of tropical rain forest to near desert conditions. Madagascar
bio-diversity is unique in the world, and ecological conditions vary from tropical on the coast to
temperate in the central highlands. The population is estimated at 11 million inhabitants (1987),
growing at a rate of 3 per cent per year; its distribution is very uneven, with an average of 18.5 per
km2, but exceeding 100 per km2 in the central highlands. Close to half of the urban population of
1.5 million lives in the capital, Antananarivo.
Enomic performance
1.03       With a per capita income in 1987 of US$225, Madagascar is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Growth has been modest but sustained from independence in 1960 to 1972.
The economy has however stagnated from 1972 to 1980, deteriorated sharply from 1980 to 1982, and
stabilized since 1983, with more recently signs of an economic upturn (1989). The poor economic
performance of the 70s and early 80s stemmed largely from inappropriate economic policies, with
emlphasis on public investment financed from external borrowing - mostly for economically non viable
projects, industrialization, nationalization of foreign owned enterprises, extensive consumer subsidies
and pervasive controls over private economic activity.



2
Structural adjustment policies and results
1.04       Policy adjustment between 1981 and 1986 aimed at financial stabilization and centered
on demand management; during that period, the fiscal deficit fell from 15 per cent to 4 per cent of
GDP through reduced expenditures, inflation dropped from 30 per cent to 13 per cent per annum,
and imports were reduced by more than half in real terms. After a decline of 10 per cent in real
terms from 1980 to 1982, GDP started growing again in 1983, although per capita GDP has
continued to decline through 1987 due to high population growth.
1.05       Starting in 1985, supply oriented measures were introduced, supported by a series of
Sectoral Adjustment Credits (Agricultural Sector in FY86, Industry and Trade Policies in FY87,
Public Enterprises Adjustment in FY88). Measures undertaken since 1985 include : the elimination
of controls on most ex-factory prices and of export taxes on manufactured products as well as the
reduction of export taxes on coffee; the introduction of a new Investment Code; the elimination of
market control and consumer subsidies on rice, the country's main staple food, and the elimination
of the monopsony of state rice marketing agencies; the 1988 devaluation (46 per cent); the
replacement of quantitative import restrictions by a simplified tariff structure, the introduction of a
market-clearing allocation system of foreign exchange for imports, the streamlining of the parastatal
sector, the elimination of state monopolies over traditional export crops, improvements to the
budgetary allocation process, and reforms of the commercial banking system. As a first step towards
a civil service reform program, a census of civil servants has just been completed, and a committee
has been set up to validate its results and eliminate all identified irregularities.
1.06       The reforms outlined above will take several years before they are fully implemented
and translate into better performance of the economy. During this period, GDP growth is expected
to continue improving; growth rate is expected to be less than 3 per cent in 1990, and annual inflation
rate 10 to 12 per cent. Meanwhile, necessary cuts in public expenditures have resulted in sharp
declines in the real wages of the civil service, in development expenditures and in the goods and
services needed for government operations; this has had severe effects on the availability and quality
of government services, particularly services to farmers.
The agricultural sector
1.07       Agriculture is the most important contributor to the national economy. Because
economic decline has affected other sectors more than agriculture, Madagascar is one of the few
countries for which the GNP share of agriculture has been rising over time (from 31 per cent in 1965
to 41 per cent in 1988). Agriculture employs 85 per cent of the population and accounts for more
than 80 per cent of export earnings (90 per cent if processed agricultural products are added). The
sector supplies the primary inputs to the food and textile industries which together account for 75 per
cent of the value added of the industrial sector.
1.08       Although most tropical and temperate climate crops can be found in Madagascar, only
about 2.3 million ha, i.e. less than 5 per cent of the country's area, are cultivated. Cereal and root
crops account for about 50 per cent of total agricultural production (30 per cent for rice alone);
industrial crops (sugar, cotton) represent about 7 per cent; export crops (coffee, cloves, vanilla,
pepper) represent 15 per cent of production, but 70 per cent of exports; livestock contributes 8.5 per
cent of the national GDP and 19 per cent of agricultural GDP.
1.09       The agricultural sector grew at an average annual rate of 0.6 per cent between 1970 and
1980, well below the estimated population growth rate of 2.8 per cent. It declined at - 0.1 per cent



3
in avrerage between 1980 and 1983; with macro-economic stabilization policies concentrating on
controlling inflation and public and current account deficits, the provision of services and
infrastructure continued to deteriorate. Trade liberalization measures were initiated in 1983 for rice,
and generalized in 1988 (except for vanilla); since 1984, the agricultural sector has been growing on
average at 2.8 per cent per year, i.e. more or less at the same rate as population. In 1989, however,
it grew at 7 per cent, resulting in a 4.5 per cent growth in the overall economy.
C. The livestock sector
Livestock in the economy
1.10       About 80 per cent of Madagascar's land area is rangeland. The country has a long and
deep-rooted tradition for livestock raising. Over 60 per cent of farmers are involved in some kind
of livestock raising; livestock is the main source of income for 25 per cent of the rural population
and in many areas constitutes virtually the only source of cash. It also provides the power to till over
half of Madagascar's total area under cultivation (2.3 million ha) and is by far the most important
source of fertilizer for crops.
Livestock production and constraints
1.11i       The resource base of the livestock sector is large with over 10 million heads of cattle,
nearly 2 million sheep and goats, 900,000 pigs and over 20 million various fowls (poultry, ducks,
geese and turkeys). Cattle numbers are lower than in the early 1970s but show an average annual
growth rate of about 1 per cent since 1978, while the number of pigs has fallen by an estimated 18
per cent during the same period and sheep and goats appear to have remained stagnant.
1.12       Livestock production in Madagascar benefits from a favorable animal health situation
due to the absence of major cattle diseases common in Africa (rinderpest, pleuro-pneumonia, foot-
and-mouth disease). Major diseases present are anthrax, blackleg, liverfluke and gastro-intestinal
parasites for the ruminants, swine fever and Teschen disease for pigs and cholera, fowlpox and
nemcastle disease for poultry. Animal health however has deteriorated over the last 25 years with the
introduction of new diseases, with adverse effects on production (blackquarter and liverfluke on
ruminants, classical swine fever on pigs and several poultry diseases). Under the proposed project,
specific policies would be formulated and implemented to better monitor and control existing livestock
diseases and to efficiently protect the national herd against the introduction of new diseases.
1.13       Pasture resources have been estimated at about 32 million ha with an average carrying
capacity of 0.25 cattle unit per hectare. The potential of extensive livestock production based on
natural pastures is expected to decrease by 20 to 25 per cent within the next 10 years, as increased
crop cultivation takes away bottom-land dry season pastures. The problem of bush fires, traditionally
used to induce pasture re-growth, has developed recently at a much larger scale, and appears to be
a major threat to soils and pasture resources.
1.14       Madagascar's cattle herd is growing older compared to 1978 and has a low offtake rate
estimated presently at 9.7 per cent, as compared to 10.3 per cent in 1978. Total beef production is
1215,500 tons of carcass meat in 1988 (158,000 tons with offals), or 12.4 kg per capita, higher than
in the 60s (115,000 tons in 1965) but lower than in the 70s (135,000 tons in 1975). Pork production,
which amounts to an estimated 48,000 tons of carcasses and offals, is declining since the 1970s
(61!,000 tons in 1978) and stagnating since 1983. Sheep and goats contribute an estimated 37,000 tons



4
and poultry 12,000 tons. Madagascar's total meat production in 1988 was of the order of 260,000
tons, and average per capita consumption about 24 kg per year, 38 per cent lower than in 1960 and
lower than in most African countries. Despite declining per capita consumption, however, the sector
has become a net importer.
1.15       Dairy production trends show a similar pattern. Production has increased by only 0.5
per cent per year since 1960, much less than the human population, and the share of imports in total
consumption has more than doubled (8.5 per cent in 1960, 17.6 per cent in 1987) despite a
continuous decrease of the domestic consumption per head (minus 1.4 per cent per year) since 1960.
On the basis of recent production and population trends, even maintaining present low consumption
levels (26 liter per capita per year) would lead to a deficit of dairy products of some 185,000 tons
of fresh milk equivalent by the year 2000, representing more than three times the 1987 imports.
Institutional Framework
1.16       Public Institutions. Within the Ministry of Animal Production, Water and Forestry
(MPAEF), the Directorate of Studies, Programming and Financing (DEPF) and the Directorate of
Livestock (DEL) are responsible for planning and implementing livestock services related to animal
health (vaccinations, clinical services and drug distribution), production (genetic improvement and
distribution of feed supplements), extension and marketing activities in the country. DEL is present
in the field through five Provincial Livestock Services (SPELs), each sub-divided into Livestock
Districts (CIRELs) which manage Livestock Field Offices ('Postes d'Élevage'). MPAEF's capacity
to service the Livestock Sector has badly eroded since 1975, despite a large increase in the number
of veterinarians and livestock engineers (threefold, current number is about 122) and the almost
doubling of total staff (1347 in 1989). Veterinarians are being trained abroad, while livestock
engineers are trained at the Agriculture Faculty of the Antananarivo university (ESSA). In animal
health, DEL concentrates on free vaccination services against main diseases, but disease control
policies are ill-defined. It also provides in some places clinical services free of charge and sells
veterinary drugs and products at subsidized prices. Extension and resource management activities are
almost nil and communication with the Ministry of Agricultural Production (MinAgri) extension
services has been practically non-existent.
1.17       The Central Veterinary Pharmacy (PCV), a former Division of DEL, has no legal
status; till 1986, it had a de facto monopoly for the import and distribution of veterinary drugs;
although such a monopoly no longer exists and PCV has stopped importing since 1989, it remains
in existence. The Central Veterinary Laboratory (LCV), responsible for diagnosis and vaccine
production, and livestock research stations are under the responsibility of the Research Institute
(FOFIFA) of the Ministry of Scientific and Technical Research (MRSTD). LCV is adequately staffed
and equipped for the production of bacterial vaccines, but viral vaccines are produced using obsolete
technology and are not adequately tested for efficiency.
1.18       Parastatal Institutions. A large number of public sector entities of various types are
involved in livestock production and development, including production of breeding stock; meat, hide
and skins processing; input supply and distribution; and milk collection, processing and marketing.
1.19       In meat production, the ranching company "Ferme d'État Omby" (FEO) was established
in the late sixties under the Bank-financed First Livestock Project (Credit 560-MAG). Since its
establishment, the operation has suffered from land tenure conflicts with the local population and
from financial and management problems. FEO has never been profitable and is losing its assets by
selling stock to meet recurrent costs; it would need to be sold off. Privatization of the three main



5
slaughterhouses is underway as part of the agenda under the Public Sector Adjustment (PSAC)
project.
1.20       Govermnent involvement is also important in the dairy sector, particularly in the areas
of railk collection and marketing, and the provision of breeding services. Two parastatals deal with
dairy development in the Central Highlands, FIFAMANOR and ROMANOR. FIFAMANOR is a
Norwegian funded operation under the Ministry of Agriculture that manages a multipurpose extension
senrice north of Antsirabe; dairy activities include the management of a cattle multiplication farm,
68 lbreeding bull centers, and veterinary and extension services to dairy farmers associations (para
1.22). ROMANOR was created in 1986 to manage a dairy development project funded by Norway
(NORAD) and the World Food Program (WFP - through the sale of dairy products); it manages three
dairy plants but the operation has suffered from poor management due to excessive interference from
MPAEF. Artificial insemination services are provided by CNIA (Centre national d'insémination
artificielle), recently created with French assistance; CNIA is part of BCL (Bureau Central Laitier),
a mnixed company ('Société anonyme') that also operates cattle breeding farms. Milk collection,
processing and marketing is also carried out by two other public enterprises, SMPL and LALASOA;
their privatization has been decided as part of the PSAC agenda.
1.21       A number of other public sector entities still exist, created as part of earlier externally
financed projects: SVM (Station Vétérinaire de Morondava), a veterinary diagnostic laboratory
constructed with U.S.S.R. funding; and CFTEL (Centre de Formation Technique d'élevage), training
center funded by Japan. Both have the status of a public organization ('Établissement public'). There
are also some 40 multiplication centers (CPR: Centre Pépinière de Reproducteurs). Finally,
'Opération Androy' is financing recurrent expenditures of an earlier UNDP supported operation in
the South. All these activities have been depending on budgetary support from government and
although some are now operating on a much reduced scale, they mostly serve to finance personnel.
A major step in the reform process was the recent publication of the by-law closing down
FAFIFAMA, the agency which was created in 1974 to manage two successive Bank-financed Village
Livestock projects in the Mahajanga area.
1.22       Farmers organizations. Both ROMANOR and FIFAMANOR have been promoting the
organization of dairy farmers into associations. In the area of influence of FIFAMANOR, about 1200
farmers are organized in seventy associations and seventeen unions, with an apex organization called
Rova. ROMANOR is working with some one hundred and ten associations and twenty seven unions.
A national seminar of dairy producers took place in Antsirabe in November 1990, and resulted in the
creation of a non-profit organization called CONACOLAIT (Comité National de Suivi et de
Coordination des Associations de Producteurs laitiers à Madagascar), made of fifteen farmers
representatives. The mandate of CONACOLAIT is to promote the creation of more associations and,
after two years, to organize a national congress of dairy producers associations aiming at the creation
of a National Federation.
Provision of Credit.
1.23       Presently, the National Rural Development Bank (BTM), is the only bank which is
active in all six provinces of the country. It has a total of 54 branches providing short- and medium-
term investment credits to individuals and groups including those engaged in agricultural and livestock
production and marketing. BTM is also represented in the suburban area of Antananarivo and in most
key areas where livestock activity is relatively important. Currently, rural lending and savings in the
formal financial sector in Madagascar accounts for a small share of the sector's activities, due to high



6
costs and risk factors. A Rural Finance Operation now under preparation would aim at fostering the
development of grass-roots rural savings and loan associations.
Prices and Incentives
1.24       With regard to input subsidies, the main distortion used to be the subsidization of
veterinary drugs by the Central Veterinary Pharmacy (PCV). Now that the private sector is allowed
to import veterinary drugs and that stocks held by PCV have been run down, the adverse effect of
subsidized drugs has become marginal. Livestock output prices are free since 1982. However,
because of the closure of the Economic Community (EC) market to Malagasy beef exports until
recently, and because meat demand is strongly related to income, prices have been going down in
real terms for beef (-9 per cent over the last 10 years). Prices have also gone down for sheep and
goat meat (-8.8 per cent) and chicken (-27 per cent), while for pork they have remained almost stable
(-0.2 per cent). Major distortions have occurred in dairy pricing. EC and WFP grants of milk
powder and butter oil were until recently used to produce reconstituted milk, the sale price of which
was below what the local dairy plants could offer, and below international prices, lowering
significantly the incentive for domestic production.
1.25       Recent events have modified radically the set of price incentives facing the livestock
sector. The rehabilitation of the slaughterhouses and the subsequent re-establishment of preferential
beef export quotas to the EC has enabled beef production to recover its natural comparative
advantage. Similarly, with the reduction in the world supply of subsidized dairy products, low-priced
dairy imports have practically ceased and local dairy production can again profitably compete with
imports.
Donors Support to the Livestock Sector
1.26       The most important livestock development operations are the programs to support dairy
development in the central highlands, financed by Norway (NORAD) and WFP, the rehabilitation
of the country's three main slaughterhouses by the EC and the development of artificial insemination
(France). A number of new projects are being prepared with various donors; together with the
present project, they would form a comprehensive and well coordinated program for the sector:
- a livestock development project for the south-western part of the country (loliara province)
is under discussion for EC financing; it would be based on the same approaches and policies as those
presented in this report;
- a feasibility study for a dairy development project around main consumption centers in the
lowlands is being carried out by consultants financed by the African Development Bank (ADB);
- a project that would support pig production (within other activities) in the Middle West is
being prepared for financing by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD);
- the French Ministry for Cooperation and Development (MCD) has agreed to mobilize
consultants to carry out a study on pigs and poultry development prospects during the first half of
1991 (small ruminants might also be included); main topics to be looked at will be domestic demand
and export prospects, impact on prices and demand of productivity improvements and production
increases, the possible role of producers associations and other organizations such as Chambers of
Agriculture, and the identification of research and development requirements; the resulting program
is expected to be financed by MCD;



7
- a proposal for a technical assistance project to support Rova, a dairy farmers association (see
para 1.21) has been submitted to the Canadian Bilateral Aid (CIDA) for financing; and
- a feasibility study for the creation of a new vaccine production unit is being carried out by
consultants financed by the Bank (PPF advance for the present project) and will be submitted to
CCCE for financing.
Banlc Group involvement and lessons from experience
1.27       In the early 70s, the first Bank-financed Livestock project (Loan 585-MAG) aimed at
developing parastatal ranches (para 1.19). Two subsequent projects (Credits 506 and 121 1-MAG)
focused on support services in the Mahajanga area with a first attempt to support the sector as a
whole through the provision of foreign exchange for imports of veterinary drugs and DEL's
reiniForcement. The two latter projects were successful in the organization of health services but
failed in the introduction of more intensive animal production techniques. Institutional arrangements
also proved ineffective. The two most important lessons from the experience of these projects and
froni similar livestock projects in Africa are: (i) better animal health services do have an impact on
productivity and production, but the cost of delivery is beyond the financial capabilities of
governments; it is necessary to introduce cost recovery for the services that will continue to be
managed by the public service (e.g. compulsory vaccinations campaigns); it is also necessary to
prornote private sector involvement in the delivery of veterinary drugs and clinical services; (ii) the
size and productivity of the herd appear to depend more on macro-economic conditions than on any
other factor, including the health situation; more intensive production techniques would not be
adopted by farmers if the incentive framework is not suitable. These lessons helped design the
present proposal, particularly with regard to disease control and project management aspects. 'Me
PCR for the Second Village Livestock project will be prepared this year.
1.28       An environment project is financed by the Bank and other donors. It represents the first
five-year segment of a fifteen-year Environmental Action Program (EAP) and consists of seven
components, dealing respectively with the protection and management of biodiversity and main
natural ecosystems; soil conservation, agroforestry, and reforestation; mapping and progressive
establishment of a geographic information system; land titling; training, education and awareness
raising; environmental research on land, costal and marine ecosystems; and institution building
activities. The activities of this project in natural resources monitoring and land titling will have an
important significance for the pastoral areas.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect rationale
2.0.1      In the framework of the recent macro-economic reforms, the livestock sector has an
important role to play in the recovery of the economy. The production potential is high because of
the absence of major cattle diseases common in Africa and of the potential for good quality pasture
and other feed production. Exports of meat and other livestock products (hides and skin, duck and
goose liver) can contribute significantly to the export diversification strategy and to an improvement
in the balance of payments. In addition, livestock and dairy production in the densely populated areas
of the central highlands can contribute substantially to agricultural intensification and efficient import



8
substitution, and help ease balance of payments constraints. Finally, the development of dairy and
smallstock products should result in a significant increase in the consumption of high nutrition value
proteins, and hence in a reduction of malnutrition in both rural and urban areas.
2.02       Three factors make a resumption of livestock lending to Madagascar desirable at this
point in time. First, meat export prospects are good as sanitary restrictions on export slaughterhouses
have been lifted and the country has an export quota of 7800 tons per year under a preferential tariff
system with the EC. Second, local production has become competitive as a result of the adjustment
measures together with the reduction in the world supply of subsidized milk powder, and there is
substantial scope for import substitution. Third, government has agreed to a comprehensive program
of institutional reforms in the sector, including a major reorganization of DEL, whereby certain
functions such as veterinary assistance and supply of drugs would be privatized, and others such as
animal husbandry extension and major diseases control would be reinforced; this would streamline
and, at the same time, increase the efficiency of services to the sector. Under these changed
conditions, the sub-sector could contribute significantly to import substitution and exports, while
increased domestic consumption would have a positive impact on nutrition.
B. Proiect objectives and main features
2.03       The ultimate objective of the project is to increase livestock output in order to reverse
a potentially alarming demand/supply situation, as well as to promote exports. In order to extend
the on-going adjustment process to the livestock sector, a package of institutional reforms has been
agreed upon, expressed in a sector policy statement; it will be supported by institution building
measures included in the project. Furthermore, a production development component has been
designed which would be national in scope; it would improve animal health delivery systems at the
national level, except in the areas to be covered by other livestock projects (e.g. in the Toliara
Province, where EC is preparing a livestock project), provide specific support to extensive cattle
production, and promote intensive production systems in the highlands (dairying), including
promotion of farmers associations. The project would be executed over a five year period; overall
responsibility for its execution would be with MPAEF.
C. Summary Project Description
2.04       The project would consist of a package of policy and institutional reforms, supported
by an institution building component and a production development component. It would be part of
a sector program made of a number of coordinated parallel projects (para 1.26).
(i) The policy reforms for the livestock sector are outlined in a policy statement (annex 1) that
has been drafted with government during appraisal. Essentially, the reforms cover seven main areas:
a redefinition of the respective responsibilities of government and the private sector; the introduction
of market-based competition; the promotion of producer associations; the privatization of the
veterinary profession; the introduction of cost recovery; the divestiture of government parastatals; and
the tightening of border sanitary restrictions.
(ûi) The institution strengthening component would improve the capacity of DEL and DEPF
in MPAEF to concentrate on their redefined role. It would also promote private veterinary practice,
review formal training in livestock and veterinary science, and support the divestiture process.



9
(iii) The production development component would comprise (a) support to extensive cattle
production systems, mainly through improved disease control in the western and northern regions;
and (b) dairy development in the central highlands, based on the strengthening of dairy producers
associations and the improvement of milk collection (access tracks, chilling centers).
D. Sector policy and institutional reform
2.05       Redefinition of Government responsibilities. The principle has been accepted that (i)
government will divest itself from all direct production and marketing activities in the livestock
sector; (ii) essential public service activities (i.e. sanitary border control, epidemiological
surveillance, definition of hygienic and quality standards for animal products and animal feed;
definition of quality/safety standards for products used in veterinary medicine) will remain under the
responsibility of government services; and (iii) non-essential public service activities (meat inspection,
laboratory diagnostic, quality control, extension) will be carried out by either government or private
operators acting by delegation.
2.06i      Competition and the incentive framework.  The policy would be to create an
environment open to fair competition. Levels of protection against imports will be those agreed to
under the reformed customs tariff structure. In the case of dairy products, which in the past have
been largely exempted from normal import duties, such exemptions would no longer be granted.
Dairy products imported as part of food aid programs were in the past delivered to dairy companies
(public or private) at prices below their market value, creating disincentives to collect locally
proçluced milk. A market based price would be established for such products (skimmed milk powder
and butter oil, that are used to reconstitute fluid milk): the price would be calculated on the basis of
recent international contracts plus shipping and handling costs plus standard duty rates. A formal
mechanism to coordinate deliveries of food aid dairy products would also be set up, including an
annual meeting of donor agencies involved in livestock development and food aid in the form of dairy
products, in order to prevent excessive concentration of such imports at any given time.
2.07       Promoting farmers associations. The policy is to transfer increasing responsibilities to
farmers associations for all activities related to the development of production and marketing of
output, and the supply of compound feed, fodder seeds and breeding stock; for milk collection and
processing, artificial insemination and the management of breeding bull stations. Experience with
Rova indicates that farmers are interested in getting involved in such activities. Existing public
institutions dealing with dairy development (ROMANOR, FIFAMANOR, BCL, CNIA) would be
restructured to transfer most of their current activities to farmers organizations or to other private
entities, including the three dairy plants currently managed by ROMANOR. As the possibility for the
emergence of a private monopoly in the dairy sector exists, it would be justified to (i) maintain the
three dairy plants under ROMANOR management, at least until the privatization of SMPL and
LALASOA is completed (as part of the PSAC program); (ii) carry out a feasibility study on how
these three plants can be made profitable under private management (being financed under PPF), with
due consideration to the feasibility of upgrading the Antananarivo plant to make it suitable for sale
of pasteurized milk in bulk. Support to producers associations would include the provision of training
and management assistance services, particularly to facilitate access to credit. To promote cooperative
management of milk collection and feed processing facilities, financial incentives would be granted
to rmatch resources that associations would mobilize themselves for specific investments. A Livestock
Promotion Fund would be created to manage these incentives; management responsibilities would be
shared between government and producers associations representatives.



10
2.08       Privatization of the veterinary profession. A new set of laws and by-laws has been
prepared for parliamentary approval to revise the legal framework for veterinary activities; it specifies
the conditions for private veterinary practice, including the creation of a National Veterinary Order
(ONVM) that would ensure that the deontology of the profession is respected; the proposed by-laws
would also regulate the private distribution of veterinary pharmaceuticals and specify the role of
government in sanitary protection. A Veterinary Promotion Center (CEPROVET) would be created
under the project as a non-profit non-government organization to provide initial support to the
National Veterinary Order (ONVM) as well as to newly graduated or already active veterinarians who
want to establish private practice. CEPROVET would be financed by the project during the start-up
period, and later on by the veterinary profession itself. As a condition for credit effectiveness,
Government would have promulgated the new legal provisions as a set of Ordinances and by-laws,
or alternatively obtained the approval by the Popular National Assembly of the new laws (para 6.02).
2.09       Private veterinarians providing animal health care would be allowed to settle freely in
the area of their choosing and would henceforth be subcontracted for public service tasks such as
compulsory vaccination campaigns and meat inspection. Practical provisions for implementing this
policy would be worked out in consultation with professional organizations (Unions of veterinarians
and pharmacists) and ONVM, and would ensure that private veterinarians would be protected from
unfair public sector competition, i.e. that DEL field services would progressively withdraw from all
curative veterinary activities and non-compulsory vaccinations and from direct involvement in the
supply and distribution of other inputs, and that during the transition period government would
suppress subsidies on all clinical services, voluntary vaccinations, input supplies, artificial
insemination (AI) and breeding stations activities. Remunerative rates for compulsory vaccinations
and other contracted public services would also be established - together with specific mechanisms
for their updating - in consultation with operators in the sector. Under the new legal provisions
veterinary drugs would be sold by private veterinarians or pharmacists; retail distribution by non
professionals ('Dépots de médicaments') would henceforth be allowed under the supervision and
responsibility of a veterinarian or pharmacist; in the areas where private distribution would not
materialize, field agents of the Livestock Service would be allowed and encouraged to sell veterinary
drugs as a private activity, under the supervision of a professional practitioner. DEL has already
stopped importing veterinary pharmaceuticals and Government formally confirmed the closing down
of PCV.
2.10       Cost recovery. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that goods and services
having a commercial value that would continue to be supplied by public entities during the transition
period would be charged at their full market value (para 2.09). For compulsory vaccinations, cost
recovery would also be introduced, limited initially to the cost of the vaccine alone. Epidemiological
studies would be carried out under the project for the most important diseases, particularly anthrax,
blackleg and liverfluke, in order to provide more precise technical information on which to base
future disease control strategies; once these control strategies are confirmed or revised, a decision
would be taken on the level of cost recovery desirable in the long term.
2.11       The government divestiture process. It is government policy to continue the on-going
process of divestiture from production and marketing activities. Under the proposed project, a
specific action program would deal with various entities of the sector; it would be implemented over
a two and half year period (annex 2). A temporary committee would be created within MPAEF to
handle the program (COMODEL: Commission de Mise en Oeuvre du Désengagement de l'État dans
le secteur Elevage), with its secretariat located within DEPF. Base? in achievements in the livestock
sector, the responsibilities of the committee might later be extended t . other sectors of the Ministry
(fisheries and forestry). For each entity, an evaluation of past achie- 'ements would be made and



il
proposals for restructuring, privatization, or closing down would be prepared. The entities to be
dealt with fall under two categories:
(i) three public enterprises: BCL-CNIA (see 2.7 above), FEO (Ferme d'État Omby) and FEV
(Fermre d'État de Vohimasina - located in Fianarantsoa, FEV used to process and export meat until
1985 and is now slaughtering for the local market); they fall under the responsibility of the special
agency (DGG: 'Délégation Générale du Gouvernement pour la réforme du secteur des entreprises
publiques') established as part of the IDA-financed public sector adjustment operation (PSAC); the
proposals prepared by COMODEL for these three entities would be passed to DGG for decision and
implementation;
(ià) other entities, for which COMODEL would be responsible both for the preparatory phase
and for implementation; they are:
- the CPRs (Centres pépinière de reproducteurs) : most depend directly on DEL; their
impact in the past has been minimal, and they should be either liquidated or - if there
is a demand for it - given to farmers association; in the latter case, farmers should
decide freely on future production and prices;
- CFTEL, SVM and Opération Androy: the possible role of CFTEL in training would
have to be evaluated in the context of the overall review of training which is due to take
place under the project; cattle and poultry production activities should be either closed
down or privatized. There is currently little justification for having a diagnostic
laboratory such as SVM set up as an autonomous agency while the other laboratories
are part of DEL services.
2.12       The staff that would neither be maintained nor reintegrated in the public service would
have to be dismissed. Non civil servants would be paid statutory separation allowances financed from
goveirnment counterpart financing of the project. Under current policies, civil servants cannot be
forced to leave the civil service and are not eligible to such allowances. A study of future civil
service staff requirements for the livestock sector would also be carried out; until the study is
completed and a plan of action agreed upon with the Bank, there would be a moratorium on
recruitment for the sector (para 6.01).
2.13       Sanitary protection. In order to minimize the risk of introducing new animal diseases
in the country, such as foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest or african swine fever, control procedures
on entry of goods or passengers in the country need to be tightened. With the exception of day old
chicks, imports of live animals for production or breeding would be forbidden. Modern embryo
transfer and artificial insemination techniques make it feasible to introduce improved genetic material
without having to import live animals; sanitary control is much easier for such material. Imports of
live animals from other species (e.g. pets), when they would require quarantine (because of the
country of origin), would be allowed only by air, through the international airport of Ivato-
Antananarivo; the airport quarantine station would be rehabilitated under the project (para 2.15).



12
E. Institution building component
Strengthening of the Livestock Directorate (DEL)
2.14       The planning capacity of DEL would be improved through international fellowships (5
MY), study tours and in-country training, technical assistance (4 MY of a planning and project
management specialist), the creation of a scientific and technical documentation center, the
improvement of building infrastructure, and the supply of vehicles and office equipment. Funds would
also be provided to carry out sub-sector and project formulation studies (e.g. silk production, bee
keeping). New administrative systems would be developed and introduced for planning, budgeting,
accounting and documentation management. Two accountants would be hired for the duration of the
project to deal with project accounting requirements and funds would be provided for an annual
external audit of all project activities.
2.15       The project would provide training (3 veterinarians are already being trained under PPF
funding), short-term and long-term (3 MY) technical assistance, and office equipment and system
design studies to set up a national disease reporting system. The quarantine station at Ivato
international airport would be rehabilitated. The existing network of regional diagnostic laboratories
would be reactivated; five small laboratories would be set up at CIREL level to test the viability of
an extended network of decentralized laboratories. Five mobile teams would operate during the initial
years of the project to carry out epidemiological surveys. In addition to the mobile teams, the
necessary supplies to collect samples would be provided to livestock posts as well as private
veterinarians.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.16       Within DEL, the project would finance the implementation of a monitoring system,
including initial design studies, in-service training, validation and adjustments, short-term technical
assistance (4 MM), office furniture and equipment, and a vehicle and operating funds to carry out
small ad hoc surveys. The system would initially be based on the monitoring requirements of the
present project and later on expanded to all DEL's activities.
2.17       The project would assist DEPF in developing its monitoring and evaluation capabilities
by financing the implementation of the system, including initial design studies, in-service training,
validation and adjustments, short-term technical assistance (4 MM), office furniture and equipment,
as well as a vehicle and operating funds to carry out small ad hoc impact evaluation surveys. In
addition, funds would be provided to finance project specific evaluation studies, in the form of initial
benchmarks, final impact studies, and an external mid-term evaluation (requiring 12 MM of local
consultants and 8 MM of international ones).
Privatization of veterinary medicine
2.18       The project would finance initial establishment costs of CEPROVET (office remodelling,
furniture and equipment, a vehicle), training (short term fellowships, study tours, seminars),
consultants (12 MM) and operating costs. The Center would be staffed with two professionals (a
veterinarian and a management/accounting adviser) and two support staff. Assistance in preparing
credit applications and installation grants is expected to be provided to some 20 future private
practitioners per year.



13
The government divestiture program
2.19       The project would fund initial investments and operating expenditures for the permanent
secretariat of COMODEL (made of two professional staff and two support staff), as well as
allowances for the members of the Committee and a provision to carry out evaluation and/or audit
studies of the entities to be dealt with. Funds would also be provided to carry out a study of future
staff requirements for the Livestock Administration (para 2.12). Provisions for statutory separation
allowances are included for about 500 persons.
Formal training review
2.20       The privatization of veterinary activities and the evolving nature of public sector
resporisibilities require changes in pre-service training programs and content, both at professional and
technical level, particularly in the training of livestock engineers. Resources would be allocated under
the project to (i) carry out a manpower requirements review; and (ii) develop new curricula. The
project would provide for office equipment and operating costs, field visits, the organization of
workshops, local and international consultants, and two years of technical assistance.
F. Production component
SmpMort to extensive cattle production systems
2.21       The main objective of this component would be to achieve effective and cost-efficient
coverage of the cattle population against diseases, which is the principal factor determining offtake
rates. Some limited actions on herd management would also be introduced, such as selective culling
to improve average fertility levels. To this end, the project would (i) carry out epidemiological
surveys to determine for which diseases and in which areas compulsory vaccinations are necessary
(para 2.10); (ii) introduce distribution of drugs and other inputs (e.g. minerals) as a private activity
of existing field agents by financing initial stocks in kind to constitute revolving funds; and (iii)
strengthen the livestock field services of MPAEF by rehabilitating local and regional offices of the
Livestock Directorate (87 existing field offices, 15 of the CIRELs and infrastrcture at provincial
level). Existing four-wheel drive vehicles would be repaired (30) or replaced (14), SPELs and
CIRELs light vehicles (23) would be progressively replaced, and field staff would be equipped with
motorcycles (200) and bicycles (400). The project would also provide cold storage equipment for
vaccines and other veterinary equipment. In-service training programs would be organized. The
introduction of cost recovery for vaccines (para 2.10) would finance the expected increase in
vaccination coverage. Extension activities would be coordinated with those of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
2.22       A Research and Development program (under sub-contract with FOFIFA) would
introduce pilot actions aimed at alleviating nutritional constraints; main actions to be tested are the
selective use of supplementary feeding (e.g. impact of using limited quantities of cotton seed cake at
the right period of the year) and improved pasture management, including the aspects related to land
tenure or land use rights. Demonstration schemes would be set up to transfer existing and future
results to farmers. A study of the bush fires problem would help better understand the magnitude of
the problem, diversity of situations and corresponding motivations, and would develop approaches



14
to improved control. Specific attention would be given to the incidence of land tenure systems on
bush fire control.
Dairy development program
2.23       The program is divided in two parts, highlands and lowlands. The program for the
lowlands will be based on the outcome of the study currently being carried out under ADB financing
(para 1.26); it would aim at developing milk production and collection around a number of urban
centers, particularly through support to farmers associations. This program is expected to be financed
by ADB, as a stand-alone project.
2.24       The highlands program would cover the triangle Antananarivo - Sakay - Fianarantsoa;
it would support farmers associations and organize the transfer of ROMANOR and FIFAMANOR
activities to such associations (para 2.07). Based on current experience with existing associations
already working with ROMANOR and FIFAMANOR, it is expected that some 200 new associations
would develop during the project's period, and that - following the current pattern - they would
organize themselves into some 30 district unions, 4 regional federations and a national association.
This assumption has been used to estimate financing requirements as presented below. Farmers
contribution to the financing of some of the investments would come either from their cash income
or from commercial credit. Credit would not be provided for under the project; extension staff would
assist in preparing credit applications for existing credit institutions. The percentage of cost to be
financed by farmers would depend on the type of investment. The dairy program would comprise five
sub-programs.
2.25       Extension and farmers associations support. The project would support farmers
associations through the action of a team of extension staff (5 agents per fivondrona - district, for 21
fivondrona) that would provide technical and management assistance; the provision of training for
ftture staff of the associations' unions; and small initial grants for office equipment and supplies.
Some of the activities would be specifically targeted to women. The project would provide training
and transport means for extension staff, and an expatriate specialist in producer associations for four
years. To support the restructuring of ROMANOR (para 4.08), the project would develop and
introduce new administrative systems for programming and budgeting, personnel, monitoring and
accounting.
2.26       Feed and fodder development. The program would support:
(a) an adaptive research sub-component (under sub contract with FIFAMANOR, already
experienced in this field) to provide farmers with a wide variety of options regarding species and
cultural practices (under sowing, over sowing, relay cropping, alley farming);
(b) a production sub-component, based on already available technology. The project would
fund the initial seed requirements, seed production equipment, recurrent cost of demonstration plots,
2 vehicles, 5 MY of training and 3 MY of technical assistance, based on the estimate that farmers
would expand the present area of annual forage by about 2000 ha, of perennial forage by 500 ha and
of agro-forestry by 500 ha. Initially, ROMANOR or FIFAMANOR would contract all local seed
production to farmer associations. New varieties and techniques would be introduced with a two year
free provision of seed; however after the initial two year period seed would be provided at full cost
and sold direcdy by the associations; a specialized union would eventually take over responsibiity
for the whole scheme; and



15
(c) a concentrate feed sub-component, to assist district unions in the construction of simple feed
mixing plants. Under a matching grant system (also used for the collection tracks and milk collection
centers) with 50 percent farmers contribution, it is estimated that there would be demand for 15 small
feed mills (0.5-1 ton/hour) and corresponding grain storage silos (400 ton capacity) as well as for 10
small scale plants to produce mineral licks or molasses-urea licks to improve the utilization of the
highly fibrous rice straws. The grant would finance 80 per cent of the cost of equipment; farmer
contributions would include the construction of required buildings, the financing of working capital
and a 20 per cent contribution to the cost of equipment.
2.27       Milk collection and processing infrastructure in the highlands.
(a) The project would include provisions to finance the rehabilitation of about 1000 km of
livestock tracks 1/, making them suitable for year round milk transport. These tracks would
connect with the feeder roads network financed under the Seventh Highways project, but the
rehabilitation would be under lower standards (i.e. width limited to 2 meters, suitable for ox carts
only, and slopes up to 18%), and would have a close involvement of producer associations in the
funding and execution of works. Labor intensive techniques would be used, based on experience
deve1loped in the area. Willingness of the farmer association to contribute with 25 percent of total
costs up front in the form of labor and agreement to provide labor for maintenance afterwards would
be the key conditions for the selection of tracks to be rehabilitated. Using existing International
Labor Organization (ILO) project facilities at Antsirabe, the project would finance the training of 3
supeirvisors (chefs de chantier) to be employed by ROMANOR and of 30 track maintenance foremen
(chefs d'équipe) to be employed initially by ROMANOR and later on by the district unions. Three
small pools of machinery would be required (4 tractors, 8 trailers, 4 water tanks, 4 pumps, 4
compactors and a set of hand tools for each pool); this machinery would be hired from local
entrepreneurs or in the event this proves impossible ROMANOR would purchase and rent it to users.
(b) It is estimated that there would be demand under the project for the construction and
equijpment of 50 milk collection centers and 10 mini-dairy plants (500 - 1000 1/day), again with a 25
percent up front contribution of the beneficiary association. In practice, this contribution would be
the construction of required buildings and the financing of a revolving fund, with the project funding
the equipment.
(c) Rehabilitation and maintenance of ROMANOR milk collection and processing plants would
be included into the project, to continue these essential activities in the interim period before they are
transferred to the cooperative sector. This would include minor adjustments (mainly to improve milk
collection and cheese storage) in the Antovetany and Antsirabe plants and a major rehabilitation of
the Antananarivo plant. This rehabilitation would be undertaken only if a study now being carried
out would demonstrate that these plants can be made profitable within a period of three years.
2.28       Genetic improvement. A Herd Book would be created, initially for the red norwegian
breed, but eventually of national scope and open to other breeds. It would be based on the
development of a milk recording system, and would allow to keep track of pure breed animals,
including those selected for elite bulls production. The project would finance the required support in
terms of training, staff, short-term consultants, logistics and equipment. Selected farmers would
produce elite bulls of controlled quality to be used in mating stations. Farmers are expected to
organize themselves into specialized associations, and a Union of these associations would eventually
1/ livestock tracks are un-engineered and are not part of the classified network



16
take over the management of the whole scheme, including the Herd Book. FIFAMANOR's elite herd,
of particular value for future genetic improvement, is being phased out from its present level of about
200 animals; the animals are being sold to farmers, and would be tracked by the herd book system.
In view of the essential role AI has to play in small holder dairy development, the project would
finance, on a declining scale, the provision of AI services, with the aim of making this activity self
supporting at the end of PY 4. AI would be used systematically for the production of elite bulls; it
would also be available to those farmers that benefit from easy access and telecommunications.
2.29       Research and Development. A research and development prograin, complementary to
the one for the extensive production systems (under sub-contract with FOFIFA - para 2.22), would
experiment possible improvements to crop/livestock farming systems, particularly from the point of
view of their long term sustainability. Main topics to be studied would be herd demography, disease
incidence, the role of draft animals, and feeding. Examples of actions to be tried out are the use of
supplementary feeding, improved manure production and improved barns for dairy cows.
RI. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost estimates
3.01       The cost of the project has been estimated at FMG 80.9 billion (US$ 39.3 million), of
which FMG 42.7 billion (US$ 20.9 million), or 53 per cent, is in foreign exchange. Estimates are
based on prices prevailing in October 1990; they include US$ 6.6 million of taxes and duties and US$
6.7 million in physical and price contingencies. Project costs include activities financed under the PPF
(US$ 400,000), which are being carried out now and would be refinanced under the credit. Physical
contingencies have been included at the rate of 10 per cent on investments in infrastructure and
equipment and 5 per cent on all other items except technical assistance. Price contingencies on foreign
costs are based on a projected increase of trade-weighted international prices of 4.5 per cent per year.
Price contingencies on local costs are based on slowly decreasing inflation rates, from 12.5 to 10.5
per cent over the five years of the project. Exchange rate projections are based on the assumption of
constant purchasing power parity with the US dollar. A summary cost table is given below; detailed
cost tables are available annex 4.



17
Project Cost Summary a/
000 USS                          X Total
--------- -----------  X Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign   Total       Exchange   Costs
...............-   - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -..........
A. Production devetopment
1. Extensive Cattle Systems   4492.8  3933.8   8426.7        49.0      26.3
2. Hightands Dairy Develpnt   7685.3   7356.7  15042.0        51.0     46.9
Sub-Totat                       12178.1  11290.5 23468.6        50.3      73.2
B. Institution Building
1. Strengthening of DEL       1646.8  3019.6   4666.4        66.7      14.5
2. Monitoring/Eval-DEPF/DEL    407.9   518.0    926.0         58.1      2.9
3. Privatization of Vet.Prf    794.8   870.8   1665.6         54.4      5.2
4. Divestiture Program         278.2   233.1    511.2         47.0      1.6
5. Format Training Review      269.6   571.8    841.4         69.5      2.6
Sub-Total                        3397.3  5213.3   8610.6        62.5      26.8
Total BASELINE COSTS            15575.5  16503.8 32079.2        51.4     100.0
Physical Contingencies         893.1   890.4   1783.5        49.9       5.6
Priice Contingencies          1641.4  3126.7   4768.1         65.6     14.9
Totat PROJECTS COSTS            18109.9 20520.9 38630.8         53.1     120.4
a! Includes US$ 6.6 million of taxes and duties and USS 400,000 for a PPF.
B. Financing
3.02         The project would be co-financed by MCD, CCCE and NORAD. Parallel projects
would be financed by the ADB (Lowlands dairy development), EC (Livestock development in the
Soutl-West), MCD (Pigs and poultry program) and CCCE (Vaccine production unit).
3.03          Of the total cost of FMG 79.6 billion (US$ 38.6 million), the IDA credit would finance
51 per cent, corresponding to 64 per cent of foreign exchange costs plus 57 per cent of local costs
exclutding taxes. NORAD would finance the genetic improvement sub-program and elements of the
fodder development sub-program, including one long-ternm consultant, representing about 12 per cent
of the cost of the highlands dairy program, or 6 per cent of total project cost. CCCE would finance
the rmilk collection tracks and dairy plants rehabilitation; CCCE would also finance technical
assistance for the dairy plants and for farmers associations support; CCCE financing would amount
to albout 14 per cent of project cost. MCD would finance technical assistance for the institution
building component (two long term consultants), corresponding to 3 per cent of project cost. The
financing plan is given below.
Financing plan
US$ million        Per cent
IDA                 19.8          51.2
CCCE                 5.4           14.1
MCD                  1.0           2.7
NORAD                2.1           5.5
Farmers              2.6           6.7
Government           7.7           19.8
Total               38.6          100.0



18
C. Procurement
3.04       All goods and services funded under the IDA Credit would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The construction contract for the renovation and expansion of DEL offices
(US$ 0.5 million) and other civil works contracts (estimated to total about US$ 1 million for 114
different sites) would be of limited size and spread all over the country, for which foreign firms are
not likely to bid for such works. These contracts would therefore be procured using local competitive
bidding (LCB) or local shopping (ILS) procedures: LCB would be used for the larger sites, up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 1.1 million, and ILS would be allowed for small sites spread over isolated
locations), up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.4 million. Vehicles, equipment and supplies contracts
exceeding US$ 100,000 would be procured through ICB and would be bulked to the extent possible.
Under ICB procurement of goods, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15 per cent
or the import duty, whichever is lower. For contracts between US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$ 0.8 million, local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank (LCB)
would be used. Procurement of goods for less than US$ 50.000 per contract or goods from a small
number of source (e.g. documentation, laboratory equipment, veterinary drugs) and up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 1 million would be on the basis of prudent shopping (international or local).
Small equipment and material to support dairy farmers associations (up to US$ 0.6 million) as well
as goods and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Livestock Promotion Fund would be
scattered amongst some 200 farmers associations and spread over the five years of the project, and
would be mostly procured through shopping from local suppliers (ILS); milk and feed
processing/storage equipments financed from this Fund (up to US$ 1.3 million) would require
quotation from at least three suppliers; detailed arrangements acceptable to IDA would be set for the
operation of the Livestock Promotion Fund, including for procurement, as a condition of
disbursement of the Fund (para 6.03). All technical assistance, studies and training contracts would
be procured in accordance with the Bank's or co-financier's guidelines for the selection of
consultants, depending on the source of financing; most long-term technical assistance (five out of
six experts) would be financed by other donors; short-term technical assistance would be primarily
in the form of individual consultants, except when a team is required (i.e bush fire study, training
review, mid-term evaluation), in which case consulting firms would be used. Proposals for
advertising, draft tender documents, bid evaluation, and award proposals for all contracts exceeding
US$ 100,000 would be subject to review by the Bank prior to their execution.



19
Procurement method
--------------- USS thousand -----------------------
Proiect element                      iCB       LCB       ILS    Other     N.A.    Total
a/
Rehab/expansion of DEL premises                521 c/                               521
<447)                                (447)
Liv. posts, CIRELs, SPELs rehab.               438 dl    348 e/                     786
(376)    (298)                       (674)
Other buildings rehabilitation                  161 f/    Il g/                      172
(138)     (10)                       (148)
Vehictes purchase                    3471                         354              3825
(2029)                         (0)            (2029)
Cotd storage equip                              79                                   79
(59)                                 (59)
Fietd Vet equip (200 sets)            236                                           236
(177)                                         (177)
Vet. laboratory equipment                                322 b/                      322
(241)                       (241)
Office furniture                               288                                  288
(216)                                (216)
Office equipment                      275      286                                  561
(206)    (217)                                (423)
Veterinary drugs                                         307                        307
(265)                       (265)
Track repair machinery/tools                                     1097              1097
(O)                (O)
Mitk processing plants equipment                                  540               540
(O)                (O)
Seeds processing equip, seeds,                                    338      215      553
demonstration plots                                            (0)    (184)    (184)
Herd book equipment, support to                                   173               173
Artificial insemination                                        (0)               (0)
Farmers associations equipment                          564                         564
(200 associations)                                 (483)                       (483>
Documentation for new                                    105                         105
DEL Doc. center                                       (90)                       (90)
milk cottection tracks rehab.                                    3800 h/           3800
(farmers associations)                                           (0)               <0)
Milk end feed processingistorage                        1264 i/                    1264
from the Liv.Promotion fund                           (850)                      (850)
Severance payment, veterinarians                                          1217     1217
installation grants                                                    (919)    (919)
Systems development, studies,                                    2482 j/           2482
Research & Dev., audit                                       (1645)            (1645)
FeLLowships, seminars,                                           2763              2763
study tours                                                   (2459)            (2459)
Consultants                                                      4459              4459
(1306)            (1306)
Incr. operating costs                                                    12124    12124
(6767)   (6767)
PPF Refurd                                                                 393      393
(393)    (393)
TotaL costs                          3982     1773      2921    16006    13949    38631
(2412)   (1453)   (2237)    (5410)   (8263)  (19775)
Notes    ai Inctudes items procured by other cofinanciers following their oun rules
bi Large number of different items
ci one singLe contract
d/ 20 different sites
ei 87 different sites
fi 12 different sites
g/ ILS : different entity (CEPROVET)
h/ 200 smaLl sites - Labor intensive - Liv. Dev. Fund operation
i/ 100 different operations, spread over 5 yr
jl about 20 contracts
Notes         Amounts in parentheses indicate IDA financing
ICB: international competitive bidding; LCB: local competitive bidding;
ILS: international or local shopping.



20
D. Disbursement
3.05       The percentage of costs (excluding taxes) to be financed by IDA, and the amount
allocated per category, are presented in the following disbursement table.
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Amount               Percentage
Category                           (US$'0Q            Financed by IDA
Dairy program (Highlands)
a. Livestock Promotion Fund
Feed processing/storage equipment        150        80% of total expenditure
Milk collection/processing equipment     600        100% of total expenditure
b. ROMANOR operations
Vehicles and equipment                   800        100% of foreign expenditure
and 85% of local expendit.
Management services                      100        90% of total expenditure
Training and fellowships                 450        100% of total expenditure
Operating costs                         1500        85% of total expenditure
Other project components
Civil works                             1100        85% of total expenditure
Vehicles, Equipment, other goods        2900        100% of foreign expenditure
and 85% of local expendit.
Consultant and studies                  1750        100% of total expenditure
Training and fellowships                1600        100% of total expenditure
Management, audit, account. serv         250        90% of total expenditure
Staff allowances                         900        On a declining scale Il
Vet.installation grants                  900        90% of total expenditure
Research and Development                 450        90% of total expenditure
Operating costs                         3850        80% of total expenditure
PFF Refund                               400        Amount due
Unallocated                             2100
Total                      19800
1/ 100% for up to US$ 0.6 million; then 60% up to US$ 0.8 million and 30% thereafter.
3.06       Based on the standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Madagascar, the
IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of seven years. The expected disbursement profile is
given in the table below. All disbursements would be net of taxes and duties.
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY92   FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97   FY98
----- ---- - - --------- -(US$ million)-------------------
Annuel      0.4    1.6    2.4     3.9    4.8    4.7     2.0
Cumulative  0.4    2.0    4.4    8.3    13.1    17.8   19.8
%         2      10     22      42     66     90      100



21
3.07       To expedite disbursements, a special account in convertible currency would be opened
in the Central Bank, to be used for all categories of expenditures. An amount of US$ 2 million would
be withdrawn from the credit at the time of credit effectiveness to constitute the initial deposit. The
special account would be replenished on a monthly basis or when it is reduced to one third of its
original amount, whichever comes first. Contracts up to US$ 200.000 and operating costs would be
disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) to be provided by the Project Unit ('Cellule de
Pilotage', para 4.02) with approval of the DEL Director and the Ministry of Finance. The DEL
planning and project management adviser (para 2.14) would be responsible for establishing adequate
SOE procedures. Documentation of SOEs would be made available for review by Bank supervision
missions. All other contracts would be fully documented.
3.08       A project special advance account (Caisse d'avance) would be established in the
Treasury in Malagasy Francs before credit effectiveness. It would be used directly by DEL for small
local currency payments and would be replenished from the special account on the basis of
documentary evidence.
3.C9       A project account in local currency, operated by DEL, would also be established in
Treasury, with an initial deposit by government of about US$ 100,000 equivalent to cover
governments contribution to project's expenditures. This account would be replenished by government
on a monthly basis or when it is reduced to one third of its original amount, whichever comes first.
Evidence of the initial deposit would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02).
E. Accounting and Audit
3.10       Implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for project activities which
would cover all sources of financing (government, IDA, other co-financiers). DEL would be
responsible for consolidating the accounts and preparing disbursement applications and records, on
the basis of information supplied to the project unit ('Cellule de Pilotage', para 4.02) by all
participating agencies (MPAEF, ROMANOR, CEPROVET, FOFIFA). Project accounts would be
audited by a qualified independent audit firm under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Audited
accounts and reports would be submitted to te Bank for review within nine month after the end of
each fiscal year. The audit would cover all project accounts, including project accounts within
M]PAEF, the operations of the special account, the advance account and the project account in
Anitananarivo (para 3.07, 3.08 and 3.09), the Livestock Promotion Fund, CEPROVET, and
ROMANOR. The audit report would also include a verification of the legitimacy of all expenditures,
an assessment as to whether goods and services have been procured from eligible countries, and an
opinion on the reliability of SOE procedures and on the proper utilization of goods and services
financed under the project. Assurances on the foregoing were obtained during negotiations (para
6.01). In the agriculture sector, the government met its auditing requirements with due diligence.
F. Project impact on government budget
3.11       During project implementation. The project would be mostly made up of investments
(75 per cent of total project cost), and would finance an important part of the livestock sector's
investment budget. Recurrent project costs for DEL field services (about US$ 1 million per year)
are equivalent to its current level of operating expenditures. This level of expenditures would not
be sustainable without the introduction of cost recovery. With the expected discontinuation of
NORAD and WFP support to ROMANOR and FIFAMANOR, these two organizations could not



22
survive on government resources alone, with the risk of jeopardizing many of their positive
achievements; the project, by organizing the orderly transfer of many activities from parastatals to
farmers associations, would aim at decreasing the cost of the corresponding services to be supported
by the public sector. Staff reduction, cost recovery and transfer of activities would entail savings of
US$ 1 - 1.5 million per year by PY5. The divestiture program would result in additional savings of
about US$ 0.5 million per year.
3.12       After project implementation. Beyond the project disbursement period, MPAEF would
be expected to finance incremental recurrent costs (about US$ 0.2 million per year) and the
replacement of some project investments, such as vehicles and equipments (about US$ 0.1 million
per year) for central services and disease surveillance. Incremental recurrent cost of field services
would be about US$ 1 million per year. This compares favorably with average savings and earnings
of US$ 1.5 - 2 million per year resulting from the measures described above; a significant percentage
of the operation of the field services should be self-financing. At the same time, the project would
enhance MPAEF operational capacity to handle the services and activities that would remain under
public sector responsibility.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01       While the overall responsibility of the project would be with MPAEF, each sub-
component would have specific institutional arrangements: dairy development in the highlands would
be under the responsibility of ROMANOR (para 4.08 - 4.12); public support to farmer associations
would be managed by the Livestock Promotion Fund (LPF) to be created (para 2.07 and 4.13);
research and development programs on livestock production systems would be carried out by
FOFIFA; and support to the establishment of private veterinarians would be managed by
CEPROVET (para 2.08 and 4.14).
4.02       A temporary coordinating unit ('Cellule de pilotage') would coordinate the various sub-
components and channel external financing. The unit would be located within the planning service
of DEL. The specification of the resources to be passed by MPAEF to the other institutions involved
in project implementation, and the corresponding programs of work, would be formalized in
contractual agreements ('contrats de services') between DEL and these entities (i.e. ROMANOR,
FOFIFA, the Livestock Promotion Fund and CEPROVET).
4.03       Two coordination meetings would be organized every year between the managers and
key technical staff of the various components. Managers of parallel projects with major livestock
components would also be invited to participate. An annual review meeting of all donors involved
in the livestock sector (tentatively France, Norway, WFP, EC, ADB, IFAD, IDA) would also be
organized under the project. The purpose of such meetings would be to ensure consistency between
donors interventions, particularly with regard to sector policies. The need for dairy products in the
form of food aid should be reviewed during such meetings in order to ensure that future deliveries
would be coordinated, and food aid would not create major disruptions of the local market.



23
4.04       A mid-term evaluation of the project would be carried out in two steps in 1994. An
indeipendent evaluation would be prepared by a team of local and international consultants, and would
be used as a basis for the joint government - donors evaluation, and if need be reformulation, of the
project (para 6.01 and annex 7).
B. Detailed institutional and implementation arrangements
Livestock Directorate (DEL)
4.05       The organigram of DEL would be adjusted to take into account changes of focus in its
activities. The Veterinary Service would be re-structured into three Divisions, namely Sanitary
Protection, Disease Surveillance and Epidemiology, and Food Hygiene and Quality Control. A new
Planning Service would be created, to include the three Divisions of Studies and Programming,
Monitoring, and Documentation and Computer Support, as well as the temporary project coordinating
unit (para 4.02).
4.06       An agreement has been signed between MPAEF and MinAgri to coordinate their
extension activities and insure better coherence of technical advise extended to the farmers.
Pramming and Studies Directorate (DEPF)
4.0,'      Using the current public investment review system (PIP), DEPF, in coordination with
DEL, would prepare every year a consolidated Yearly Program of work and Budget for all public
sector activities related to livestock, with a distribution of costs by financing sources. DEPF would
also prepare an Annual Progress Report. These documents would be provided each year to IDA and
to other donors active in the sector, for information and comments. The system, once operational
for the livestock sector, would also be applied to other activities of the Ministry.
Public support to Dairy development
4.08       Public support to dairy development would be managed by the entity that would result
frora the restructuring of ROMANOR (para 4. 11) and by FIFAMANOR (para 4.12). ROMANOR
would be re-named ROMA (Ronono Malagasy) and given a private status ('société anonyme') for five
years. Its management board would include an equal number of government and farmers
representatives. New management systems would be developed and introduced. Most of its assets
would be progressively transferred to farmer organizations, the rest would be returned to Government
at the end of its legal life. Field activities would be organized in three zones: North (Antananarivo,
Manijakandriana and Middle-West), Center (Ambatolampy and Vakinankaratra) and South
(Fianarantsoa, Ambositra, Fandriana, Ambohimasoa). Extension and seed multiplication activities
would be split between ROMANOR (North and South zones) and FIFAMANOR (Center).
ROMANOR would have sole responsibility for milk collection (including tracks) and processing as
well as for feed development investments, and FIFAMANOR would be responsible for applied
research (including the production of foundation seeds) on fodder crops and for the genetic
improvement scheme. To facilitate their future management and eventual transfer to a specialized
union, genetic improvement activities of FIFAMANOR would be organized as a self-contained entity.
The milk collection tracks would be rehabilitated and maintained under the formal responsibility of
the concerned farmer association, ROMANOR acting only on behalf of the association; local
contractors would actually carry out the works, using labor supplied by the association.



24
4.09       A formal contract specifying activities to be undertaken and resources to be made
available by the Ministry would be established between MPAEF and ROMANOR for the whole dairy
program, with a subsidiary contract between ROMANOR and FIFAMANOR.
4.10       A number of tasks presently under the responsibility of the public sector would be
transferred to farmers' organizations:
(a) to producers associations and unions of associations: seed production, management of bull
stations for breed improvement through natural mating, milk collection centers, production and sales
of concentrate feeds, sales of other inputs, management of tracks maintenance machinery;
(b) to specialized unions: milk processing; organization of specialist advice linked to
commercial activities, particularly seed production and import of other inputs; development of a
national herd book on the basis of private elite herds and the development of a milk recording system;
artificial insemination;
(c) to regional federations and the national association: the role of representing the dairy
farmers interests.
4.11       A plan for the transfer of ROMANOR activities to the appropriate organizations has
been drafted. It foresees an early transfer of those activities in which the producers organizations are
already involved (concentrate manufacturing, sale of small dairy supplies and primary milk collection)
and a more gradual transfer of the more demanding tasks of forage seed production, A.I. and milk
processing. Subject to the outcome of the planned study (para 2.27), the three ROMANOR dairy
plants would be managed by an independent subsidiary of ROMANOR and transferred to a
specialized producers Union within a maximum of three years after project start, to form the basis
for a cooperative dairy processing industry.
4.12       For FIFAMANOR a similar time table would be adopted. FIFAMANOR would in the
short term (i) transfer the sales of veterinary products to private veterinarians; (ii) phase out its
present on-station herd; (iii) set up an on farm elite bulls production scheme; and (iv) transfer its bull
stations to producers associations. In the medium term it would transfer the forage seed production
and the genetic program to specialized producers unions. For BCL-CNIA, this would imply the short
term closure of its CPRs; as far as AI is concerned, the respective roles in the medium term of CNIA
and producers organizations would be determined as part of the divestiture process of BCL (para
2.11).
Livestock Promotion Fund
4.13       The livestock promotion fund to be created to manage public support to farmers
associations (para 2.07 and 4.01) would be managed by an Executive Board made of an equal number
of representatives of government and of farmer associations. The Fund would extend matching grants
to producer associations and district unions; the grants would help finance specific collective
investments to support dairy development; applications would be submitted by farmers associations
and the Fund's Board would decide on eligibility on the basis of specific pre-defined criteria (para
2.26 and 2.27). The establishment of operating procedures satisfactory to IDA would be a condition
of disbursement for the Fund (para 6.03).



25
ONVM and CEPROVET
4.14       CEPROVET would be created as a non profit private organization, based on the
provisions of Ordonnance 60.133 of October 3, 1960. It would be supervised by an elected board and
would report on project's funds expenses to DEL. It would provide a permanent secretariat to ONVM
and technical and managerial assistance to private practitioners, as well as manage the training
resources and installation grants provided for under the project. Through CEPROVET, ONVM would
also prepare a database of potential areas which would support private practices. The composition
of the board and detailed arrangements for the operation of CEPROVET are still to be worked out.
The creation of CEPROVET and the establishment of operating procedures satisfactory to IDA would
be a icondition of disbursement for installation grants (para 6.03).
Traiing review
4.15       This component (para 2.20) would be managed as a joint activity under contract between
DEL and the Agriculture Faculty (ESSA), with provisions for a participation of ONVM.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Incremental production
5.01       Extensive cattle production. The benefits from improved health services and animal
husbandry in the extensive system would result in a gradual improvement in herd productivity; it is
estirmated that over a period of 10 years: (i) calf mortality would decline from 23-24 per cent to about
15 per cent; (ii) yearling mortality rates would be reduced from 6-7 per cent to 4-5 per cent; (iii)
the birth rates would increase from 62.5 per cent to 64 per cent; and (iv) milk production would
increase from 500 It to about 600 It per lactation. Herd development projections show that, for an
average herd of 50 animals, such changes in productivity would increase the number of animals for
sale from 7 to 8 per year at full development. Milk production would also increase, but additional
production would largely go to calves and family consumption. Assuming that improved health
services under the project would reach 40 per cent of the country's cattle population, total increase
in production would reach 80,000 heads of cattle (about 11-12,000 tons carcass weight), or 10 per
cent of current production, per year at full development.
5.02       Dairy production. In the highlands, the project would benefit 200 associations with an
average membership of 70, corresponding to the improvement of a total herd of about 21,000 cows.
Based on farm models analysis, it is estimated that average marketable milk production would
increase over an 8 to 10 year period from the present level of 500 It to 2000 It per cow (annex 3).
This would provide an additional production at full development of 88,000 It per day, about three
times present collection levels.



26
B. Financial and economic benefits
5.03       Extensive cattle production. For the average 50 heads herd, net financial income would
increase by US$ 100-200 after 10 years, resulting in an incremental net present value of US$ 430
over 15 years. The economic rate of return for the extensive cattle program is estimated at 17 to 22
per cent, depending on the share of the cattle population that would be affected (30 or 50 per cent).
5.04       Dairy production. Farm model analysis for various levels of cow productivity (annex
3) show an increase in the return per day of labor from FMG 730 for traditional production to
between 1700 and 3000 FMG per day with intensification. Compared with an opportunity cost of
labor estimated at FMG 1000 per day, these figures show the financial attractiveness of improved
dairying. The competitiveness of domestic milk production has been assessed by calculating Nominal
Protection Coefficients (NPCs) and Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) ratios for various scenarios on
the international price for skimmed milk powder, milk productivity level and collection cost. These
show that despite a close to equilibrium exchange rate, dairy producers remain discriminated against
(NPC = 0.97 on good road and 0.89 on poor road, at current international price levels of US$ 1,200
per ton for skim milk powder and US$ 1,500 per ton for butter oil). This reflects the fact that import
taxes are not actually collected. DRC calculations are also presented in annex 3. They show that
import substitution becomes increasingly economically profitable with higher levels of intensification.
5.05       An analysis of farm gate import parity prices indicates that milk production costs remain
lower than import parity price at current international levels of skimmed milk powder and butter oil;
except for the lower level of productivity, farmers would remain protected if international prices went
down to the historical lowest level of US$ 700 per ton for skimmed milk powder and US$ 1200 per
ton for butter oil. These calculations are based on the assumption that import taxes would be 30 per
cent on both products, in line with the agreed upon reform in tariff structures.
5.06       The overall economic rate of return of the highlands dairy program is estimated at 13
to 19 per cent, depending on the assumption on the speed of development (8 or 10 years).
C. Environmental impact
5.07        By improving forage production, the project would both reduce pressure on natural
rangeland and improve the sustainability of mixed farming systems in highly populated areas of the
country. In areas under extensive cattle production systems, present sanitary conditions are such that
improved animal health is not expected to result in dramatic cattle population growth whîch would
be damaging for the environment; rather, the project aims at increasing productivity from the existing
animal population. Research and extension activities aiming at better herd and pasture management
would be additional factors to prevent herd size to increase beyond carrying capacity. A study of the
behaviors and motivations behind bush fires is expected to bring better understanding of this major
problem. The project would not touch upon areas where biodiversity protection is a major concern
of the Environment Action Plan (EAP) now under implementation, but would benefit from its
institution building activities in the areas of natural resources monitoring and land use rights. A
detailed environmental impact statement presented in annex 6.



27
D. Risks
5.08       A major risk would be lack of response of the private sector. This will depend on their
perception of the new set of incentives and institutional framework within the livestock sector,
particularly with regard to dairy products food aid. Improving the incentive framework by
introducing market determined prices for dairy products should greatly reduce this risk. While GOM
has displayed a strong commitment to sector policy reforms, risks arise from unwillingness at the
working level to give away traditional prerogatives and from weak implementation capacity of the
Livesitock Ministry. These risks would be mitigated by project conditionality to have government take
the most important legal and policy decisions before project start-up, by a sizable technical assistance
and training program and by the delegation of many tasks to non-government entities.
5.09       Other risks follow from the capacity of the GOM to pursue a realistic exchange rate
policy and non-distortive trade policies. The on-going adjustment program ensures a continuing
dialogue between the GOM and the World Bank on these issues, which should minimize those risks.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER.
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       Assurances obtained during negotiations are as follows:
(a) goverrunent would implement the action plan for public sector divestiture in the livestock
sector; there would be a moratorium on recruitment for the sector until a study of future civil service
staff requirements for the livestock sector is completed and a plan of action agreed upon with IDA;
action would be taken by MPAEF to validate the results of the civil service census for the ministry
and eliminate all identified irregularities by January 31, 1992 (paras 2.11 - 2.12).
(b) no more exemptions would be granted for duties on dairy imports; market-based prices
would be established for dairy products imported under food aid; a formal mechanism to coordinate
deliveries of such products would be established; if it appears during project implementation that
these measures are not effective enough to prevent unfair distortions of the domestic dairy market,
other measures would be discussed between government and donors, including the option of a
complete discontinuation of this type of food aid (2.06 and 4.03);
(c) DEPF would prepare by September 30 of each year an annual work program and budget
for livestock activities in the public sector, and by March 31 of each year an annual report on their
execution; these documents would be provided every year to IDA and other donors for information
and comments (para 4.07);
(d) DEL field services would progressively withdraw from all curative veterinary activities and
non-compulsory vaccinations and from direct involvement in the supply and distribution of other
inputs, and promote private veterinary practice and distribution channels (para 2.09); a new
organigram would be established for DEL by March 31, 1992 (para 4.05); cost recovery would be
introduced, including for compulsory vaccinations (para 2.10);
(e) the Management Board of ROMANOR would include an equal number of farmers and
government representatives (para 4.08); subject to the outcome of the planned study (para 2.27), the



28
three ROMANOR dairy plants would be managed by an independent subsidiary of ROMANOR and
transferred to a specialized producers Union within a maximum of three years after project start (para
4.11);
(f) sanitary control at the borders would be tightened (para 2.13);
(g) adequate auditing procedures would be applied (para 3.10);
(h) government would carry out, in collaboration with donors, a mid-term evaluation of the
project (para 4.04 and annex 7), to be completed at the end of the third year of project
implementation.
6.02       Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) legislation on veterinary medicine would have been enacted (para 2.08);
(b) a project account (para 3.09) would have been opened, and an initial deposit of the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 would have been made;
(c) ROMANOR would have been legally established as a private corporation (Société anonyme)
and an implementation agreement would have been signed between MPAEF and ROMANOR (para
4.08);
(d) all conditions required for the effectiveness of co-financing contributions (para 3.03) would
have been met.
6.03       Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) for the Livestock Promotion Fund: the Fund would be formally created (paras 2.07 and
4.13), its executive board would have been appointed with equal representation of government and
farmers associations, and detailed arrangements acceptable to IDA would be set for its operation;
(b) for the installation grants for the privatization of the veterinary profession: CEPROVET
would be created (para 2.08), detailed arrangements acceptable to IDA would be set for the allocation
of installation grants and an implementation agreement would have been signed between MPAEF and
CEPROVET (para 4.14);
(c) for the research and development program: an implementation agreement would have been
signed between MPAEF and FOFIFA (paras 2.22, 2.29 and 4.01).
6.04       With the above assurances and conditions, the above project is suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 14.0 million.



- 29 -
Annex 1
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Sector Policy Statement
(translation)
Within the framework of its overall development policy, the government of the
Democratic Republic of Madagascar aims to raise the nutrition level of the population, develop and
diversify its export products, and supply the national industries with raw materials.  Livestock
development is one of the key components of its economic recovery strategy: the country is free of major
livestoclc diseases common in Africa, and has substantial potential for forage production; exports of beef
and other livestock products can make a significant contribution to export diversification and balance of
payments improvement; and the development of dairy production and of other semi-intensive or intensive
livestock activities, in particular in the densely-populated areas of the central highlands and around the
major cities, should contribute to the intensification of production systems, improved levels of animal
protein consumption by the population, and a reduction in imports of dairy products.
To achieve the above objectives, government has issued the present statement affirming
its intention to implement the following policies:
(O)     strengthen the capacity of the public service to perform the activities for which it will
remain responsible, and progressively introduce a cost recovery system for certain
services (particularly vaccinations);
(ii`)    create an economic environrent that will enable production, of milk in particular, to
develop under normal competitive conditions;
(iii')   promote the formation or strengthening of farmers' associations, encouraging them to
take over progressively from government in all actions related to the development of their
production and marketing of their output, principally through the restructuring of public
institutions in the dairy subsector;
(iv)     resolutely continue the process of government divestiture from production and marketing
entities;
(v)      strengthen MPAEF's capacity to provide better monitoring of public funds used in
livestock-related activities;
(vi)     promote privatization of the veterinary profession within the framework of a redefinition
of the respective responsibilities of govermnent and the private sector, with a view to
supplying the producer with different services and factors of production;



- 30 -
Annex 1 - 2
(vii)     adjust the training programs for professional and technical staff, and carry out job
prograrmming to handle foreseeable trends in future requirements;
(viii)     promote a distribution system to ensure that drugs and other veterinary inputs are made
available through private distribution circuits, to replace the already closed down Central
Veterinary Pharmacy;
(ix)      guarantee the production of quality vaccines by enlisting the participation of a specialized
international company;
(x)      strengthen sanitary border control to prevent the introduction of new diseases into the
country.
To provide the essential legislative and regulatory framework for this policy, government
has drafted new provisions for presentation to a forthcoming session of Parliament.
Government's proposed reform program, described in detail below, will be supported by
a certain number of livestock sector recovery projects, now being finalized with several external partners,
in particular the World Bank, the EC and France.
I      Government and private sector responsibilities
Activities related to the livestock sector are grouped into four categories:
(i)      Essential public service activities: these are government's responsibility, they must be
handled by Government employees and cannot be delegated. The main activities are:
-      policymaking and development planning;
-      sanitary border control to prevent the introduction of new diseases;
-      epidemiological surveillance throughout the country, supported by diagnostic referral
facilities;
-      formulation of strategies for the control of legally contagious diseases and diseases
affecting human health, and implementation of any necessary sanitary policing measures;
-      formulation of strategies for the control of economically important diseases, and
definition of procedures for their implementation;
-      establishment of health and quality standards for food products of animal origin and for
products used in stockraising;
-      establishment of quality and safety standards for biological and chemical products used
in veterinary medicine for preventive or curative purposes or to stimulate production.



- 31 -
Annex 1 - 3
(ii)      Nonessential public service activities: these are activities that may be carried out by
governrnent, or if necessary, be delegated to a private operator acting on government's behalf. The main
activities are:
activities that may either be carried out by a government operator or delegated under a
"mandat sanitaire" to private veterinarians: health inspection (slaughterhouses, food
products of animal origin), quality control, measures to control diseases covered by
official programs (vaccination, for example);
diagnostic or analytical activities for quality control purposes, which may be performed
either by a public or by an accredited private laboratory;
research and R&D activities and certain extension and informational activities.
(iii)     Private-type government activities: these are private-type activities that government may
temporarily be required to perform when there is no private operator capable of handling them, and when
their importance justifies government action. When the nature of those activities is such that it is
justifiable for the operator to be paid by the beneficiaries, government policy is to set up individualized
management systems designed to create financially autonomous operations (but this category also includes
activities whose products are by their very nature hard to "sell"):
-      agricultural extension, advice to stockraisers;
-      certain applied research activities, in particular the selection and multiplication of plant
material (fodder seed) or animal material;
-      production of vaccines;
-      noncompulsory clinical treatments and vaccinations.
(iv)      Activities falling exclusively within the domain of the private sector: production and
marketing activities are the responsibility of private operators, and government divestiture is appropriate
here.
IlI    Sector economic environment
Government policy is to create an environment that will enable production to develop
under normal competitive conditions. For such conditions to exist, free pricing and free trade are
essential.
Within the framework of the gradual introduction of standardized customs duties on
imports, the levels of protection for animal products, in particular dairy products, will be adjusted and
exemptions abolished.
It is, however, necessary to set up mechanisms for protection against unfair competition
resulting from sales of subsidized products, dairy products in particular (skimmed milk powder and butter
oil). Within the framework of its economic liberalizationpolicy, governmnent intends to take all necessary



- 32 -
Annex I - 4
measures to ensure that products imported as part of food aid programs are placed on the market at the
same price as commercial imports.
Government also intends to introduce import programming mechanisms for food aid dairy
products, with a view to preventing excessive disruptions of the domestic market.
III    Promotion of farmers' associations
Government intends to promote the emergence of farmers' associations and to encourage
them to progressively take over from goverrment in such areas as promotion of production and marketing
of output, focusing particularly on the manufacture and distribution of compound feed [provende], forage
seed multiplication and dissemination, breeding stock production, breeding stations, artificial
insemination, milk marketing. With regard to cooperatives, Government is in the process of revising the
current legislation and intends to promulgate a new legal framework that will aim at the promotion of
cooperatives oriented towards the management of economic activities.
Government support of farmers' associations could take the form of training programs,
management assistance, and assistance in connection with the completion of credit applications. Specific
procedures for access to credit will be formulated to meet the associations' needs.
A Livestock Promotion Fund will be set up to manage the aid that government will
provide to match the funds that the associations themselves are prepared to mobilize. The Fund will be
administered by a board composed of an equal number of representatives from government and from the
farmers' associations. Because such a fund is intended to be only temporary, government will promote
the development of professional organizations to relay public sector development and extension
programs.
For public institutions with a role in the dairy subsector (ROMANOR, FIFAMANOR,
BCL, CNIA), plans will be drawn up for the gradual transfer of their activities to farmers' associations
or private operators, and they will be restructured to that end. In particular, the composition of their
organs of management will be progressively modified until the farmers are in the majority.
IV     Government divestiture
The process of government divestiture from the production and marketing activities of
the public enterprises is covered by the PSAC project. The public sector entities involved in stockraising
but not falling within the PSAC framework will be the target of a special action program comprising, for
each entity concerned:
-      a study and evaluation phase;
-      formulation of proposals for the entity's development (maintenance of its present status,
privatization, closing down, etc.);
-      a process of decisionmaking and practical application.
The action program has been defined as part of the livestock sector project and is
presented in the attached document (annex 2).



- 33 -
Annex 1 - 5
V      Privatization of the veterinarv profession
With a view to promoting private veterinary practitioners, government will shortly be
submitting to Parliament a new framework of legislative and regulatory provisions, and will implement
the fol]lowing measures:
divestiture in the form of guaranteed withdrawal of government operators (whether
govermnent workers or employees of government supervised entities) in areas where a
private practitioner decides to settle; this divestiture will affect the areas of curative and
preventive medicine, whether individual or collective, and the distribution of veterinary
inputs (see below); govermnent will work out the practical procedures for implementing
this policy in consultation with the professional organizations concerned (veterinarians'
and pharmacists' unions), and the National Veterinary Order (ONVM) will be responsible
for ensuring that the ethics of the profession are respected;
systematic use of the services of the private veterinarians, within the framework of a
mandat sanitaire, for nonessential public services (see Section I(ui) above) located in their
area, in particular for the compulsory vaccination campaigns. The veterinarians may
employ vaccinators and other technical personnel, or use the services of village
vaccinators employed by stockraisers' associations, who will work under the supervision
and responsibility of the veterinarians. The practical methods of application, in particular
with regard to setting and revising the charges for vaccination, will be worked out in
consultation with representatives of the profession. The new regulations governing
veterinary pharmacy provide that vaccines may be distributed through private networks;
use of private circuits for the distribution of veterinary inputs; the regulations currently
being drafted will govern the sale of veterinary drugs (issue of a Sale Permit
[Autorisation de Mise sur Marché]) and their distribution. Veterinary pharmaceuticals
may be held, for distribution to users and delivery to the retail trade, by:
-      pharmacists officially operating a dispensary;
-      veterinarians listed in the ONVM register, either for their clientele or for the
purpose of their activities within the stockraisers' associations;
-      drug retail outlets (dépôts de médicaments), operating under the supervision and
responsibility of pharmacists or private veterinarians;
-      stockraisers' associations accredited for drugs presenting no real danger for the
animal, the user or the consumer;
in areas where there are no private distribution circuits, Livestock Service field agents
will be organized in a way compatible with civil service regulations and will be allowed
and encouraged to operate a veterinary drug retail outlet as a private activity, under the
supervision and responsibility of a pharmacist or veterinarian;
assistance will be provided to young veterinarians wanting to establish a private practice,
and incentives will be offered to interested government veterinarians to opt for private



- 34 -
Annex 1 - 6
practice; the procedures for allocating this aid will have to be worked out, especially in
the event that several candidates wish to settle in the same area (one of the possibilities
being studied is an auction system).
VI     Vaccine production
To ensure that the vaccines necessary to protection of the herd are available at the lowest
cost, government intends to promote the creation of a new production unit to take over from FOFIFA,
which currently carries on its activities at the DRZV laboratories.
A feasibility study for this unit is being carried out, in order to:
-      determine the unit's production objectives, based on an analysis of internal demand
(present and projected) and of export possibilities; for each vaccine, the comparative
advantages would be studied of exclusive domestic production, imports of vaccine in bulk
or in concentrate form, with local packaging, and imports of finished products only;
-      specify the technology to be used for manufacture, packaging and quality controls, and
the requirements in terms of investment and of human resources;
-      recommend a site;
-      prepare estimated accounts and analyze the unit's financial viability;
-      submit proposals for the legal status of the unit and its organizational arrangements;
efforts would be made to associate a specialized international partner with the project,
either through equity participation or through contracts for the supply of products and
transfers of technology.
VII    Cost recovery policy
Government intends to progressively introduce a system for recovery of the cost of
services furnished by public sector entities when such services have a clearly identifiable commercial
value.
With respect to diseases for which vaccination is presently compulsory, government
intends to carry out epidemiological studies to provide more precise technical information on which to
base control strategies. Pending the findings of those studies, payment for vaccinations will initially be
limited to the cost of the vaccine alone. In the long run, it may be justified to retain a subsidized
component in the vaccination price, to ensure adequate vaccination coverage.
For all of the private-type activities performed by government, as set out in Section I of
this letter, prices will be set on the basis of the real costs and market value of the activity, so that those
activities may eventually be self-financed and not offer unfair competition to the private sector.



- 35 -
Annex 1 - 7
VIII 'anitary protection policy
In order to minimize the risk of introducing new diseases (such as foot-and-mouth disease,
rinderpest, African swine fever), government will tighten the procedures for controlling the entry of
goods and travelers into the country.
To the same end, imports of animals for production or breeding purposes would be
prohibited until further notice, except for day-old chicks (modern embryo transfer and artificial
insemination techniques make it feasible to introduce improved genetic material, if necessary).
Imports of live animals from other species requiring quarantine would be allowed only
by air, through the international airport at Ivato-Antananarivo, where the quarantine station would be
rehabilitated.



- 36 -
Annex2 - 2
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REFORM OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES AND OPERATIONS
IN THE LIVESTOCK SECTOR
General context
A major component of the livestock sector project is government divestiture from public
enterprises and operations under MPAEF oversight.
There are many such enterprises and operations, differing widely in such aspects as size
and legal structure. Overall, they represent a burden in terms of financial and human resources that is
not commensurate with the results they produce.
Some of them were created by government or are former private enterprises that were
nationalized in order to keep the sector's economy under goverument control (the industrial
slaughterhouses: AFA, AFN, SECIAM, FEV, SOPIRAC, SEVIMA, etc.). Others were set up within
the framework of projects financed by bilateral aid (CFTEL, SVM, CNIA, etc.) or from multilateral
sources (FEC, FAFIFAMA, ROMANOR, etc.) and were not integrated in any way into the government
structure or transferred to the private sector once the relevant projects were completed.
Within the framework of the general reform of public enterprises, particularly those in
the livestock sector, it is essential to clearly define the future of the enterprises and operations concerned
and the practical procedures for implementing the necessary reforms, in order to:
-      enhance the effectiveness of the budgetary resources allocated to the sector;
-      clearly identify govermient responsibilities in the sector.
Several alternatives are possible; the choice depends on the knowledge of a set of factors,
such as: the objectives and goals of the enterprise, its importance to the sector's development, the burden
it represents on government budgetary resources, the possibilities offered by the market situation, the cost
to the government of a given choice, etc.
Following are some of the possible alternatives:
integration into the government structure when the objectives and goals of the enterprise
fully correspond to the mission entrusted to it and cannot be transferred to the private
sector without unacceptable modifications;
concession, simple lease, or lease to a private partner based on a set of conditions to be
clearly defined in each case;



- 37 -
Annex 2 - 2
free transfer or sale of land units taken over by farmers, which cannot be expected to be
recovered;
conversion into other units that are more efficient and more remunerative, with private
management, if such conversion does not represent an excessive financial burden on the
govermuent;
-      dismantling and outright closure, if there are no other opportunities in sight.
If necessary, intermediate stages could be considered before a final decision is taken on
the fate of a given enterprise.
Certain production entities, the CPRs (multiplication centers), which provide logistical
support to livestock development by supplying purebred stock, although they do not have autonomous
legal status, will be accorded special attention and studied along with the public enterprises.
Some of the enterprises concerned come under the General Delegation to the Government
for Pablic Enterprise Reform, and will therefore be examined within the context of that institution.
It might happen that a livestock development project would require to uses some facilities
currently managed by a public sector entity. In such a a case, the outcome of the divestiture process
mighit be to transfer the facilities to farmer associations.
Acti,n program
Some of the public sector entities within the livestock sector fall under the responsibility
of the special agency (DGG: 'Délégation Générale du Gouvernement pour la réforme du secteur des
entre,prises publiques') established as part of the IDA financed public sector adjustment operation (PSAC).
For those entities, the divestiture process would be carried out by DGG, following its own
procedures. MPAEF would contribute to the preparatory studies, only for the following entities: FEO
(Ferrne d'Etat Omby), FEV (Ferme d'Etat de Vohimasina) and BCL (Bureau Central Laitier).
It is understood that the other public enterprises of the sector, i.e the industrial
slaughterhouses (AFA, AFN, SECIAM, SEVIMA, SOFIRAC), are also part of Government's divestiture
program and fall under DGG's action program.
The other public entities of the sector are by nature administrative type entities and do
not faIl under the responsibility of DGG. They would be subject to a specific program that would consist
of:
- a study and evaluation phase;
- the development of proposals for restructuring, privatization, or closing down of the entity;
- a decision and implementation process.
To implement the reform program for the latter group of public entities and operations
in its sector, MPAEF will set up within its department an ad hoc divestiture committee, named
COMODEL (Comité de Mise en Oeuvre du Désengagement de l'Etat dans le Secteur Elevage).



- 38 -
Annex2 2 3
Divestiture Committee (COMODEL)
The composition of this committee will be as follows:
Chairman:     MPAEF Secretary General
Members:      - Director of Studies, Programming and Financing, or his representative;
- Director of Livestock, or his representative;
- Director of the Treasury, or his representative;
- Director of National Resources [Patrimoine] and Agricultural Reform,
or his representative;
The committee will be assisted by a permanent secretariat under the responsibility of
DEPF.
The committee will be assigned the following functions:
collect all available technical and financial data on all of the public enterprises and
operations coming under MPAEF, in the livestock sector in particular, focusing on:
the specific problems of each enterprise;
the burden it currently represents on the government budget;
assets and liabilities of the enterprise;
costs in terms of severance pay for staff dismissed within the framework of the
reform program;
-      define the mechanism for implementing the reform program;
-      carry out, or cause to be carried out, a technical, financial and legal evaluation of each
entity;
-      establish bidding documents for the sale or lease of the enterprises or operations:
specifications, announcements, bid appraisal criteria, etc.;
-      make technical, financial and legal appraisals of bids received, and submit proposals to
government for decision;
-      if appropriate, propose that special studies be carried out to help with the decisionmaking
process.
The committee may enlist the services of consultants and specialized agencies to assist
it in performing its tasks.



- 39 -
Annex 2 - 4
The enterprises and operations affected by this reform are:
the breeding centers (CPRs)
CFTEL
the ANDROY operation
Morondava veterinary station
In a second stage, once positive results have been obtained in the livestock sector, the
commiîttee might expand its activities to include enterprises and operations in the forestry and fisheries
sectors.
Reforrn program implementation plan
The overall time frame for implementation of the reform program is two and a half years
after flie signature of the credir agreement for the present project. The deadlineapplies to the livestock
sector entities under the responsibility of DGG as well as to those to be delt with by COMODEL.
For each entity under COMODEL, implementation of the divestiture process wil be in
two stages:
Stage 1:
Preliminary studies and development of reform proposals, under the following indicative
time table:
First 4 months:      CPRs
Next 4 months:       CFTEL
Next 4 months:       OA
Next 4 months:       SVM
Stage 2:
Actual implementation of the reforms.



- 40 -
Annex 3    -   1
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
THE ECONOMICS OF DAIRY PRODUCTION
IN MADAGASCAR
1.   Despite important potential for livestock production, dairy farming has never become a full-
fledged and viable commercial activity in Madagascar. In large part, this is due to the structure of
farming in the zones close to the main consuming center, Antananarivo. The main constraints with
developing dairy production in the highlands have to do with the feed constraint, in turn explained
by the relatively small size of the farms and the resulting competition with human food production,
the low nutritive value of the natural pastures, and the low economic profitability of domestie dairy
production relative to imports. This has been known for some time as research done in the 1960s
already indicated (e.g. Hardel, ORSTOM, 1968). The solutions to the feed constraint proposed in
the past, and still pursued today to a large extent, have been to develop fodder production either on
the tanety or during the dry season in the irrigated fields with the help of chemical and organic
fertilizer (a very expensive proposition for the farmer). Similarly, the solution proposed to the low
economic profitability has been to protect local production from imports and subsidize inputs,
fertilizer in particular, to improve domestic profitability (a very expensive proposition for a low
income country).
2.    As explained in the working paper "Développement de la Production laitière sur les Hautes
Terres", the present proposed solution is to alleviate the feed constraint by instead relying too a much
larger extent on feedstuff imported from other regions where it can be produced cheaper and more
efficiently than in the Highlands. As we shall show later, the set of adjustment policies has removed
the major price distortions which made local milk production unprofitable.
3.    This Annex is organized as follows. First, we will look at the demand side to obtain an
estimate of the current level of domestic consumption which is channeled through the market, and
for which import substitution is therefore a possibility. Second, we will look at the price structure
and determine whether domestic milk production is competitive and can economically substitute for
imports. Third, we will look at the domestic marketing and processing structure to identify
constraints which may impede the development of dairy production. Finally, we will sketch out the
economic benefits, direct and indirect, stemming from a dairy import substitution strategy.
Assumptions on possible rates of adoption of improved productivity levels (feeding, cross bred or
pure breed) are the major factor affecting rate of return estimates.
A.    The Demand Side
4.    As indicated in Table 1, total domestic consumption has been declining over time from about
0.14 liters per day (Ipd) per capita in 1960 to about 0.08 Ipd per capita in 1989, a 40% decline in
30 years. This decline can be attributed in part to the deterioration in average income levels since
1960 (we can also note that the decline has accelerated in the last ten years). These figures,
however, are based on estimates of milk production and should be treated with caution.



- 41 -
Annex 3 - 2
5.    Only a small share of the domestic dairy production enters the commercial channels, mostly
to supply urban centers. It is difficult, however, to estimate the size of the commercial (or
monetized) market given the paucity of data in Madagascar and reliable urban consumption surveys.
Dairy products imports offer a much more reliable figure of the size of the commercial dairy market,
and account for a significant share of total domestic milk availability. Dairy products imports,
however, represent a lower bound estimate of the existing commercial dairy market in Madagascar
for a variety of reasons. First of all, the size of the commercial market is larger than imports
because of the presence of peri-urban dairy producers. Second, the modern sector which receives
the bulk imports represses the size of the domestic market.
6.    On average between 1983 and 1989, 32 million liters of milk equivalent have been imported
in M:adagascar on a yearly basis. Imports vary widely from one year to the next (see Table 1), but
have been on an increasing trend until 1987. Dairy imports reached a peak of 60 millions liters of
milk equivalent (LME) in 1987, before dropping to 19 millions LME in 1989. The 1987 figure is
explained in part by new donor financed food aid programs, in part by historically low international
prices for dairy products (skim milk powder, butter oil), and possibly by speculative buying before
the inaxi-devaluation of June 1987. Food aid programs in the form of dairy products have since
receded given the sharp decline in world dairy produet surpluses and the increasing evidence that food
aid programs hurt rather than helped develop local production in Madagascar. Similarly, commercial
imports dwindled after 1987 as a result of the maxi-devaluation and the combined upward movement
in international prices (from US$ 800/t in spring 1987 to US$ 1,900/t in spring 1989 for skim milk
powder).
7.    Despite its decline, food aid still represents a significant share of total imports: 35% in 1985,
39% in 1987 and 71% in 1988 (figures for 1989 are not available). Food aid has therefore
increasingly substituted for commercial imports, and a significant share is being channelled to the
modern transformation sector which then benefitted from a cheap source of imports.
8.    Our estimates indicate that at least 65% of total imports (food aid and commercial imports
conibined) end-up in the modern transformation sector, comprised of two firms: SMPL a public
enterprise, and TIKO a private firm. Another 10%, at least, is imported under the form of directly
consumable products (cheese, liquid milk concentrate). At most 25% of total imports is therefore
either possibly reconstituted by the informal sector, although this sector appears to be coming under
increasing competition from the modern sector and is slowly disappearing.
9.    The modern transformation sector is a highly capital-intensive sector running well below
capacity, which needs to transform imports of raw material (skim milk powder and butter oil) into
high-value commodities. As a result, prices of dairy products from the modern sector remain high,
which only the richest segments of the urban population can afford. Prices for pasteurized milk
(produced by the modern sector mostly from imports), for example, have increased in real terms by
12%) between 1987 and 1990, while prices for non-pasteurized milk (corresponding to the milk
supplied by the informal peri-urban sector) has decreased by 3% (see Table 2). The 16% decline in
per-capita consumption levels between 1987 and 1989 is due in part by the falling urban income
levels during the period, by the reduction in imports, but also in part by price increases imposed by
the level of transformation applied to imported dairy products by the modern sector.
10.  Because the modern transformation sector represents the bulk of total imports, there are
reasons to believe that the size of the domestic commercial market is artificially repressed as a result
of the commercial strategy pursued by the modern sector, in turn partly dictated by its cost structure.
Import substitution by the modern sector would therefore not directly compete with and displace the



- 42 -
Annex 3 - 3
traditional dairy sector that has developed in the vicinity of Antananarivo and other main urban
centers. In addition, an import substitution geared towards the lower (i.e. poorer) segments of the
market, by adding little value added to fresh milk, would also increase the size of the commercial
market.
11.   32 million LME per year appears therefore as a reasonable estimate of the potential for import
substitution in Madagascar. Although small in relation to the domestic production, this figure is
significant for Madagascar and the rural economy of the Highlands. Assuming an average current
commercial milk production of 500 liters per cow per year, this represents the equivalent of 38,000
dairy cows, or 38,000 households (on average 1 dairy cow par dairy producing household) and a total
population of 247,000 (6.5 individuals on average per household in the Highlands) who could benefit
from a source of regular cash income.
B.    The Competitivity of Domestic Milk Production
12.  Table 3 computes the import parity price for fresh milk both at the main consumption point
(Antananarivo) and at the farmgate. Different scenarios are presented according to the international
price for skim milk powder (SMP) and butter oil (BO). Knowing the actual farmgate price received
by dairy farmers, the Nominal Protection Coefficient (NPC) can be calculated. Because we are
interested in measuring the competitivity of domestic milk production, the NPC is calculated at the
farmgate.
13.  At current international price levels ( $1,200/t for SMP, and $ 1,500/t for BO), the NPC is
smaller than unity (NPC = .97 on good rural roads, NPC = .89 on poor rural roads). Different
computations have been made depending on the actual transport cost between the farmgate and the
main depot or secondary collection center which is a direct function of the condition of the rural road.
Not surprisingly, the high transport costs act as an implicit tax discriminating against the producer.
14.  Despite the presence of import taxes on dairy products and the presence of an exchange rate
close to equilibrium, domestic milk prices appear to be at parity with import prices. Two separate
and complementary explanations can be given to that anomaly. The first explanation has to do with
the competitive structure of the modern (collection and) transformation sector. Despite the apparent
increasing competition within the modern milk collection sector over the past two years in the
Vakinankaratra region, significant "profit" margins appear to subsist (these, as we saw earlier are
explained in part by the high capital costs incurred by the modern transformation sector). There
appears therefore to be room for entry in the sector. However, costs of entry in the modern sector
are high and primarily lie with access to credit. These high costs of entry into the sector help
explaining why domestic market is being repressed under the current structure of the sector (see
paragraph 9 and 10).
15.  The second and more straightforward explanation has to do with the import tax regime.
Virtually no taxes are being collected on dairy product imports. In 1987 and 1988, only 3% of total
SMP imports did pay import taxes; in 1987, all BO imports evaded taxes, and only 3% did pay
import taxes in 1988. This is the case for food aid imports as well as for commercial imports which
for one reason or another are able to evade import taxes. As a restr x. domestic milk farmgate prices
have not adjusted to their equilibrium level which would prevail C the import tax was applied
effectively.



- 43 -
Annex 3 - 4
16.  Table 3 also indicates that, at the low historical international price levels (scenario 5),
producers would be protected if current farmgate prices remained unchanged. On average (scenario
6), the NPC is smaller than unity, indicating that producers remain taxed.
17.  Table 4 presents financial farmgate milk prices (i.e. include import taxes), again with several
scenarios for the international prices of SMP and BO. Table 4 indicates that milk production is a
financially attractive proposition for farmers, since the financial farmgate milk price remains always
greater than the costs of production (see Annex "Développement de la Production laitière sur les
Hautes Terres"). It is only in the worst case scenario (scenario 5 and poor rural road), that the initial
and low level of technology is not financially profitable for the farmer.
18.  Table 5, which presents the DRC ratio calculations, indicates whether it is economically
profitable for the country to substitute domestic production for imports. The DRC calculations have
been performed for the first 5 farm models which have been developed in the Farm Model Annex,
and die median high-intensity farm model (model G). Each of the models corresponds to different
degrees of intensification. The first model (model A) corresponds to the no-level of intensification,
whereas in the following models intensification takes place first under the form of purchased rice bran
and cottonseed cake (models B and C), progressively being substituted for by own-produced feed -
oat during the dry season and chloris on the tanety- (models C, D, E and G) and purchased
concentrate feeds (models D, E and G).
19.   The main consumption point (Antananarivo) is the reference point used for the DRC
calculIations. An international price of US$ 1,200/t for SMP, and US$ 1,500/t for BO has been used.
Alternative international price scenarios have also been tested.
20.   Not surprisingly and confirming previous results, at the no-intensification level it is not
economically profitable to substitute local for imported milk. As intensification increases, however,
import substitution becomes economically profitable, and economic profitability increases (almost)
monotonically with the intensification level. This result clearly indicates that import substitution for
milk is economically justified for Madagascar at the current international price levels. The results
also demonstrate that the use of rice and cotton by-products (rice bran and cotton seedcake) and other
fodder crops into domestic milk production is economically profitable for the country, i.e. more
profiitable than exporting them. The savings in foreign exchange resulting from increased domestic
milk production more than compensates for the loss in foreign exchange from foregone exports of
rice bran and cotton seedcake. This result is particularly significant in view of the continued and
increased exports of these two commodities (4,900 t of cotton seedcake were exported in 1989, and
110 t of rice bran in 1988).
21.   The dairy production strategy of intensifying via the use of crop by-products and fodder crops
from other regions (Moyen-Ouest) is therefore attractive both at the farm household and at the
country level.
22.   At the historical low levels of international prices, domestic production becomes economically
non-profitable for the country, except at very high intensity levels which could not be expected to be
reached in the very short term. This result, which is not surprising, points however to an important
and well-known phenomenon in the dairy sector, namely the infant industry argument. The results
indicate that it is only once the dairy sector has reached high intensity levels that domestic milk
production can effectively compete with the extremely low levels of international prices. Under the
infant industry argument, the results of the DRC calculations show that Madagascar can effectively



- 44 -
Annex 3 - 5
compete with imports, even at low historical levels, nrovided the domestic sector is allowed to
develop and mature into a modern and improved sector.
23.   Earlier computations have shown, however, that no added protection needs to be granted
(beyond that already provided by the 30% uniform tariff rate) to the dairy sector to enable it to
develop into a modern sector. Indeed, Tables 4 has shown that even under the worst case scenario
(scenario 5), no added protection is required to make domestic milk production financially attractive
to the domestic producers. It requires, however, that the import tax be collected.
24.   There are additional reasons why domestic milk production is economically profitable for the
country, even under historically low international prices. These reasons have to do with the
"externality" effects induced by domestic dairy production. These important and significant
externality effects will be developed at length in the last section.
C.    Domestic Constraints to Increased Domestic Production
25.   Two sets of constraints need to be distinguished. The first set of constraints is price-related,
the second set of constraints is non-price related. Within the non-price constraints, we will further
distinguish between the constraints related to the input side and those related to the output side.
26.   Price Constraints: As the earlier discussion has shown, a major price constraint which has
impeded the development of the dairy sector has been the low profitability of domestic milk
production due to the competition from milk imports on the one hand, and the high fertilizer costs
for fodder production in the Highlands on the other.
27.   The increasing overvaluation of the exchange rate between 1972 until the mid-80s combined
the declining world price for dairy products (Skim Milk Powder and Butter Oil) to a very large extent
explain the increasing share of dairy imports and the lack of development of a local commercial dairy
sector. The maxi-devaluation of 1987 combined with the two to threefold increases in SMP and BO
world prices have made imports more expensive and also radically modified the structure of price
incentives facing the domestic dairy sector.
28.   Domestic commercial production has responded very positively and quickly to the new and
improved set of price incentives, confirming the responsiveness of the dairy sector to favorable price
incentives. Between 1985 and 1989, the estimated modern sector milk collection more than
quadrupled (see Table 6) with a sharp acceleration since 1988 --after the maxi-devaluation of June
1987. Whereas the modern sector milk collection represented only 8 % of total dairy imports in 1985,
it represented in 1989 about 30%. This strong response is undoubtedly due to the improved price
incentives which have motivated the modern transformation sector to substitute local milk for
imported milk, to offer higher prices to the milk producers and to expand their collection efforts.
29.   The constraint on the fertilizer side remains present, but the proposed technical solution for
the Highland small-scale dairy farmers consists in relying to a much larger extent on other sources
of feed which can be produced more cheaply and efficiently in other regions such as the Moyen-Ouest
or the West Coast. To escape such constraints, however, requires well-functioning markets and
adequate infrastructure.
30.   Non-Price Constraints: To a large extent, these constraints are related to the presence of
factors which impede the development of well-functioning markets, both on the output and on the



- 45                          Annex 3   - 6
input side. On the output side, well-functioning markets are dictated by the requirements of the
production of a perishable conmnodity. On the input side, well-functioning markets are also important
given learmers' reliance on the market for feedstuff. In addition, because of the high capital costs
involved with dairy production at the farm level as well as for collection, unreliable markets both on
the oulput and the input side make dairy production a risky undertaking.
31.   On the output side, under appropriate price structure, transport and communication represent
the largest constraint to the efficient development of the domestic dairy sector and the substitution
of domestic production for imported dairy products. As indicated by Table 3, costs of transport play
a major role in determining the profitability of domestic dairy production and the size of the
geographical area where domestic production can profitably compete with imports. Actual costs of
collection quadruple depending on the condition of the rural road. In addition, because of the
perishability of milk, unreliable roads simply close-off whole potential commercial dairy production
areas.
32.   Not surprisingly, milk collection is primarily taking place on roads which are reliable and in
good condition. It is on these roads the modern transformation sector has been intensifying its
collection efforts over the last few years, multiplying milk collection centers, raising producer prices
and providing various services to dairy producers. Available evidence strongly suggests that
comnmercial dairy production is concentrating along these same roads, and that commercial dairy
production is highly responsive to rural road infrastructure. Without further improvement in road
and transport infrastructure, the scope for import substitution of dairy products will therefore remain
limited. In addition to preventing the efficient development of dairy production, the deficient road
infrastructure carries also significant equity implications since only those farmers located in the
vicinity of appropriate road infrastructure can benefit from the economic opportunities offered by the
dairy market.
33.   Transport and communication play also an important role in the development of reliable and
efficient input markets. Livestock feed is an important constraint to increased dairy production in
the Vakinankaratra region, in particular during the dry season. In addition, inefficient and unreliable
livestock feed markets deter the intensification of dairy production which, as the DRC calculations
indicated, are more economically profitable for the country.
34.   The available evidence indicates that on-farm fodder crop production is not very developed in
the V'akinankaratra in general, and that there are no significant differences in terms of fodder crop
production between those zones with well developed transport infrastructure -- i.e. where most of the
milk collection effort is taking place - and those with poorly developed transport infrastructure. This
suggests two points. First, that commercial dairy farmers do rely on the market for livestock feed
supply. Second, that as predicted by the farm model developed in the Annex 'Développement de la
Production Laitière sur les Hautes Terres", reliance on the market for livestock feed is financially
profitable for the commercial dairy farmers.
35.   Partly as a result of the poor state of road communication between the West Coast, the Moyen-
Ouest and the Vakinankaratra, livestock feed such as cotton seedcakes (produced on the Coast) are
expensive for use in the Vakinankaratra and are instead exported to neighboring islands (e.g La
Réunion). Similarly, in the Moyen-Ouest, despite the potential for livestock feed production (e.g
maize, cassava), poor rural road infrastructure impedes the efficient transmission of price signals and
the supply response from that region. The level of price distortion induced by poor infrastructure
withiin and between regions is therefore significant.



- 46 -
Annex 3 - 7
36.   The policy implications of the role played by transport and communication both on the output
and the input side are clearcut. In order for the domestic dairy sector to compete with imports and
to develop efficiently, as well as for enlarging the size of the rural population who can benefit from
increased market opportunities, adequate road and transport infrastructure is necessary at three
different levels. First, where there is potential for dairy production (in the Vakinankaratra); second
between the dairy production zone and the consumption point (Antananarivo), and third between the
dairy production zone and the livestock feed production zone. Road infrastructure is currently
adequate for the main trunk road between the Vakinankaratra and Antananarivo, but remains severely
limited to only a few segments within the Vakinankaratra region, and is either lacking or deficient
between the Vakinankaratra and the Moyen-Ouest and the West Coast.
37.   Dairy producers associations such as the ROVA operating in the Vakinankaratra region are
starting to organize the production and distribution of livestock meals and supplements. They remain
constrained, however, by the availability of inputs (in terms of quantity and reliability) coming from
other regions, by the poor state of infrastructure between regions, and by their access to formal credit
sources. Access to formal credit sources by dairy producers associations is necessary for the
purchase of equipment towards the processing and commercialization of livestock meals and
supplements. Access to formal credit by individual dairy producers is also necessary for dairy
investment purposes (dairy cattle, equipment, shelter).
38.   Despite the large potential for demand, access to formal credit remains nonetheless extremely
limited at this point, a reflection of the limited development of agricultural credit and the rationing
situation which characterizes rural credit in Madagascar in general. The scope for improved access
to credit in the dairy sector, however, is important because the basic ingredients for solving the
institutional factors creating the rural credit rationing in the first place are present. First of all, the
previous section has demonstrated the financial viability of dairy farming operations. Second, dairy
producers are organizing themselves into associations which could easily act to alleviate significantly
the generic and pervasive problems of agricultural credit: namely, high transactions costs,
enforcement and monitoring problems. Thirdly, because credit to dairy producers can be easily
linked to the sale of a commodity - milk- which is taking place on a daily basis, financial viability
as well as repayment capacity can be easily evaluated and enforced.
39. As a result of the simultaneously deficient input and credit markets, the modem collection and
transformation sector is offering a number of related services to the dairy producers. Both the public
enterprise (SMPL) and the modern private sector (TIKO and ELVAK) are substituting for the
agricultural banks and the input distribution sector by providing credit and distributing supplies
(veterinary products and services, livestock feed) to the dairy producers. These services also
represent an additional mean, besides prices, for the transformation sector to attract and secure their
fidelity of dairy producers. These activities, however, could be more efficiently handled by
specialized institutions, banks and input supply distributors, provided that constraints (road
infrastructure and institutional problems of access to formal credit by dairy producers associations)
to their development are relieved.
40.   On the dairy marketing side, constraints have to do with the structure of the modern
transformation sector. The modem transformation sector is characterized by a high capital intensity,
and overall excess transformation capacity. These two factors combined together oblige the modern
sector to manufacture dairy products with an important value added component. As a result and
because of the low overall level of incomes, consumption of these dairy products is restricted to the
rich but limited segments of the urban population.   By contrast, the informal/traditional
transformation sector uses more labor intensive transformation technologies and transforms fresh milk



- 47 -
Annex 3 - 8
into lower value added products, as well as adopts the packaging of its output to the income level of
its clientele. As a result, the size of the domestic market is repressed by the cost structure of the
moderm transformation sector.
41.   Because of its technology, the modern transformation sector can easily substitute between
impoits and domestic production and is highly sensitive to world price variations. The import tax
regime has therefore an important role in maintaining incentives for the modern transformation sector
to rely on domestic production, but this role is being seriously undermined by the magnitude and
pervasiveness of tax evasion in Madagascar. However, it should be acknowledged that the recent
investments made by the public firm (SMPL) and the private firms (ÇIKO and ELVAK) on fresh milk
collection represent significant sunk costs which make the substitution from domestic supply to
impoits more financially costly.
42.   Finally, the degree of competition among the modem transformation sector remains limited
to that of a oligopoly market, led by the private firm, with detrimental consequences on the dairy
producers. Dairy producers have therefore an interest to improve their relative position on the
market by progressively assuming collection, transformation and distribution functions. In order to
maximize their market share, dairy producers will be better-off concentrating on the lower and
interinediate segments of the market, adding little value-added to the fresh milk, limiting the number
of intermediaries along the marketing chain, and coummercializing either in bulk or in units adapted
to the level of income of their main clientele. By assuming these additional functions, dairy
producers would also facilitate access to formal credit sources.
D. Direct and Indirect Benefits From Increased Domestic Milk Production
43.   The direct benefits from the import substitution of dairy production would stem from the
savings in foreign exchange. Direct benefits alone justify economically project costs in the dairy
component. Indirect benefits, however, are substantial and pervasive.
44.  Indirect benefits follow largely from the linkages effects induced by domestic milk production.
Three sets of linkages can be distinguished: production, consumption and investment linkages.
Production linkages can be both forward and backward linkages. Backward production linkages
for example are represented by the increased demand for livestock feed and other dairy production
inpuits: veterinary services, production of livestock meals and supplements, and their effects on
increased employment and value added generated by the economy. Increased domestic milk
production requires increased production of livestock feed, and therefore new market opportunities
for farmers in those regions where livestock feed can be produced (e.g. maize and cassava in the
Moyen Ouest, cotton seedcake on the West Coast). Forward production linkages are represented
by the additional employment opportunities and value added generated by the increased domestic milk
production, its collection, processing and distribution.
45.   Higher domestic milk production raises income levels of dairy farmers, as well as those
individuals in other sectors of the economy which develop as a result of increased milk production:
prodLucers of livestock feed, transporters, processors, distributors, veterinarians. These higher levels
of incomes will translate into higher levels of consumption which in tum generate additional output
and therefore employment and value added in other sectors of the economy. These consumption
linkages are generally quite large, in particular when most of the increase in consumption originates



- 48 -
Annex 3 - 9
from the rural areas. This is so because rural consumers generally consume a much higher
propensity of locally produced goods than their urban counterparts.
46.   A portion of the higher income levels will also be saved and re-invested. Although difficult
to measure and predict, this investment linkage will play a major role in the growth of the
agricultural sector. Empirical research is showing that cash incomes are essential in enabling farmers
to invest and intensify their agricultural production. A recent survey of dairy producers in the
Vakinankaratra has indicated that, on average, 40% of the dairy income generated by small dairy
farmers is being re-invested in agricultural activities other than dairy. Most of this investment goes
into the intensification of rice production: purchase of improved seeds, hiring of labor, purchase of
fertilizer or manure, purchase of farm implements. Assuming that this investment goes into the
purchase of fertilizer, it can be shown that at the end of one agricultural season, the average farm
household in the Hauts Plateaux will become self-sufficient in rice. The following years, the farm
household will start producing a surplus for sale on the market.
47.   Production, consumption and investment linkages are therefore powerful forces for accelerating
the development of the agricultural sector as well as other sectors of the economy, and represent
substantial indirect economic benefits. There are other important benefits which can be expected
from increased domestic milk production. As mentioned above, increased domestic milk production
is likely to have significant effects on food security because the additional milk income enables dairy
farmers to either purchase direcdy the rice they need, or to invest in the production of additional rice
or other food crops. In addition, food security also improves in the sectors which benefit from
increased employment and income opportunities generated by increased domestic milk production
linkages.
48.  In order to estimate an overall economic rate of return for the Highlands dairy program, on-
farm net benefits have been aggregated against project level incremental costs. The result should be
considered as only indicative, as it varies widely with the assumptions on adoption rates; these
assumptions are based on best expert judgements.
49. Five productivity levels have been considered:
- traditional unimproved (500 liters sold per cow per year)
- traditional with improved feeding (1000 1/yr)
- cross-bred cow, low intensity (1500 l/yr)
- cross-bred cow, improved feeding and management (2500 l/yr)
- pure breed cow, good management (3500 l/yr)
It has been estimated that, out of the farmers getting into associations and receiving support under
the project, sixty per cent would eventually move to cross bred cows, and fifteen per cent to pure
breed animals . Two sets of adoption rates have been estimated, one over eight years (base case) and
one over ten years (slow case). The corresponding percentages are presented below.



- 49 -
Annex 3     -  10
1. Base case (8 Years)
Productivity leveL (l/yr)
Adoption Rate        500      1000     1500      2500     3500   Average
Year 1               0.8      0.15     0.05                         625
Year 2               0.7      0.15      0.1      0.05               775
Year 3              0.55       0.2      0.1       0.1     0.05     1050
Year 4               0.4       0.2     0.15       0.2     0.05     1300
Year 5               0.3      0.15      0.2      0.25      0.1     1575
year 6               0.2     0.15       0.2     0.35       0.1     1775
year 7              0.15     0.15       0.2       0.4      0.1     1875
Year 8               0.1     0.15       0.2       0.4     0.15     2025
Year 9               0.1     0.15       0.2       0.4     0.15     2025
Year 10              0.1     0.15       0.2      0.4      0.15     2025
2. Slctw case (10 years>
Productivity tevel (C/yr)
Adoption Rate        500      1000     1500      2500     3500   Average
Year 1               0.8     0.15      0.05                         625
Year i!              0.7     0.15       0.1     0.05                775
Year "               0.6       0.2      0.1     0.05      0.05      950
Year 4               0.5      0.2      0.15       0.1     0.05     1100
Year 5               0.4      0.25     0.15       0.1      0.1     1275
year 6               0.3      0.25      0.2     0.15       0.1     1425
year 7               0.2     0.25       0.2       0.2     0.15     1675
Year 8               0.1     0.25       0.2       0.3     0.15     1875
Year 9               0.1      0.2       0.2     0.35      0.15     1950
Year 10              0.1     0.15       0.2      0.4      0.15     2025
50.    In the Highlands, the project is expected to benefit about 200 associations with an average
membership of 70, corresponding to a total of about 21,000 cows. Based on the above estimates,
incremental production for sale would increase from 500 to over 2,000 liters per cow per year,
providing an additional production of 32,000 tons per year at full development.
51.    Based on these assumptions, the overall economic rate of return of the Highlands dairy
program is estimated at 13 to 19 per cent, depending on the assumption on speed of development.



- 50 -
Annex3 - 11
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
THE ECONOMICS OF DAIRY PRODUCTION
IN MADAGASCAR
TABULE 1 - Importe of dairy products
IMPORTATIONS                                         CONSOMMATION
--- ---------------------  --------------------------------       IMPORTATION         INTERIEURE          %
ANNEES    PRODUCTION LAIT         LAIT        BEURRE      FROMAGE    TOTALE                      PAR     CONS. INT
NATIONALE   CONCENTRE   EN POUDRE                                           TOTALE    HABITANT IMPORTEE
Equivalent Equivalent Equivalent Equivatent Equivatent
Lait        Lait        Lait        Lait        Lait
(x1000l)    (x1000t     (xlOOOl)    (x1000lt)   (x1OOOL)    (xlOOOt)      (xlOOOl)       tt)
_-   - - -- -   - --_ - -   - -- - -  -.- -- -- - _-   --  -- - -- _-    --        .- .-- - -- -   - --.- - -- -
1960      239098       10000        2000        8750        1600         22350      261448      47.7            9
1965      255834       11100       10100       11100        1500         33800      289634      44.2           12
1966      259108
1970      272694
1971      276184       15970       12750       16850        2780         48350      324534      41.3           15
1972      274610
1975      266896
1978      265375           3       22850       17350         570         40773      306148      37.1           13
1980      268783
1981      270503
1982      272234
1983      273976         915       22709        6440          34         30098      304074      32.2           10
1984      275730        3384       17012        4420         178         24b994     300724      31.3            8
1985      277495        1742       14305        6540         105         22692      300187      30.5            8
1986      279394        3609       23379       10080          61         37129      316523      31.3           12
1987      279908        4396       29929       25900           19        60244      340152      32.8           18
1988      280305         119       17803        9340         173         27435      307740      28.9            9
1989      281400          40       17214        1802         354         19410      300810      27.6            6
TABLE 2 - PRIX DU LAIT AU CONSGUATEUR CANTANANARI'M)
PRIX COURANT AU CONSOMMATEUR                     PRIX CONSTANT AU CONSOMMATEUR
----------------------------------------------       INDICE  ------------------------------------
LAIT FRAIS         LAIT CONCEN.    DES           LAIT FRAIS         LAIT CONCEN.
PASTEURISE   NON PASTEUR.     SUCRE       PRIX   PASTEURISE   NON PASTEUR.     SUCRE
(litre)      (titre)       (3979)     (1972)     (Litre)      (titre)        (3979)
1960                                             69.4
1965                                             81.4
1966                                             83.8
1970                        45            64     91.1                         49           70
1971                        46            73     96.1                         48           76
1972                        50            83    100.0                         50           83
1975           81           72           110    107.7            75           67          102
1979          105          100           135    164.0            64           61           82
1980          128          117           139    221.1            58           53           63
1981          168          145           179    288.6            58           50           62
1982          237          200          302     379.2           63            53           80
1983          321          286          325     453.9            71           63           72
1984          370          300          346     498.1            74           60           69
1985          475          392          402     551.3            86           71           73
1986          480          400          439     631.2            76           63           70
1987          522          408           591    728.8            72           56           81
1988          637          500           785    920.8            69           54           85
1989          754          525          984    1003.8            75           52           98
1990          892          600          1308   1102.6            81           54          119
muuumUUUUssSEU     SUUUUZZUUNUUUUUUU         "---sstSUUUUmUEUU  UUUUUUUUUUUUU!ZUU3UUU=SEUUUUU



- 51 -
Annex 3 - 12
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
THE ECONOMICS OF DAIRY PRODUCTION
IN MADAGASCAR
TABLE 3 - lqmrt parity pricing of *itk
S/t       S/t      S/t       S/t       S/t       S/t
(1)       (2)      (3)       (4)       t5)   (6) - MA(5)
EXCHANGE RATE:                                     1500      1500     1875      1500      1500      1500
SMI FO:                                           1800      1200     1800      1000       700      1300
B0 FOB:                                            2000      1500     2000      1200      1200      t580
FREIGHT & INS:                                       60        60       60        60        60        60
(1)       (2)      (3)       (4)       (4)       (5)
FMG/KG    FMG/KG   FMG/KG    FMG/KG    FMG/KG    FMG/KG
PORT CHARGES & HANDLING                              49        49       49        49        49        49
CIF                                     361       272      452       241       198       287
TRANSPORT TAMATAVE-ANTANANARIVO                      27        27       27        27        27        27
STORAGE                                               9         9        9         9         9         9
PROCESSING                                           20        20       20        20        20        20
CONDITIONNING                                        60        60       60        60        60        60
LABOR                                                20        20       20        20        20        20
OUALITY PRICE DIFFERENTIAL (20X)                     99        82       118       75        67        85
PARITY AT CONSUMPTION                               597       489      705       453       401       507
TRANSPORT ANTANANARIVO-ANTSIRASE                     50        50       50        50        50        50
TRANSPORT ANTSIRABE-FARM (GO0D ROAD)                 25        25       25        25        25        25
TRANSPORT ANTSIRABE-FARM (DIRT ROAD)                100       100      100       100       100       100
PARITY AT PRODUCTION (C000 ROAD)                    522       414      630       378       326       432
PARITY AT PRODUCTION (DIRT ROAD)                    472       364      580       328       276       382
FA,RMGATE PRICE (GOO ROAD):              400
FARMGATE PRICE (DIRT ROAD):               325
NCIMINAL PROTECTION COEFFICIENT (GOOD ROAD)        0.77      0.97     0.63      1.06      1.23     0.93
NUCINAL RATE OF PROTECTION (GOOD ROAD)              -23        -3      -37         6        23        -7
NOMINAL PROTECTION COEFFICIENT (DIRT ROAD)         0.69      0.89     0.56      0.99      1.18      0.85
NOMINAL RATE OF PROTECTION (DIRT ROAD)              -31       -11      -44        -1        18       -15



- 52 -
Annex 3 - 13
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
THE ECONOMICS OF DAIRY PRODUCTION
IN MADAGASCAR
TABLE 4 - Faru gate f inaciat parity price
S/t        S/t       S/t       S/t        S/t        S/t
(1)        (2)       (3)        (4)       (5)    (6) - MA(S)
EXCHANGE RATE:                                         1500       1500      1875      1500       1500       1500
SMP FOS:                                               1800       1200      1800      1000        700       1300
BO FOB:                                                2000       1500      2000      1200       1200       1580
FREIGHT & INS:                                           60         60        60        60         60         60
(1)        (2)       (3)       (4)        (5)        (5)
FMG/KG     FMG/KG    FMG/KG    FMG/KG     FMG/KG     FMG/KG
PORT CHARGES & HANDLING                                  49         49        49         49        49         49
CIF                                        361        272       452        241        198       287
IMPORT TAXES (SMP:30X, BO:30X)                          171        145       214       135        122        149
TRANSPORT TAMATAVE-ANTANANARIVO                          27         27        27         27        27         27
STORAGE                                                   9          9         9          9         9          9
PROCESSING                                               20         20        20         20        20         20
CONDITIONNING                                            60         60        60         60        60         60
LABOR                                                    20         20        20         20        20         20
QUALITY PRICE DIFFERENTIAL (20%)                        134        110       160        103        91        114
PARITY AT CONSUMPTION                                   802        663       962       615        548        686
TRANSPORT ANTANANARIVO-ANTSIRASE                         50         50        50         50        50         50
TRANSPORT ANTSIRASE-FARM (GOOD ROAD)                     25         25        25         25        25         25
TRANSPORT ANTSIRABE-FARM (DIRT ROAD)                    100        100       100        100       100        100
PRIX FINANCIER A LA FERME (GOOD ROAD)                   727        588       887        540       473        611
PRIX FINANCIER A LA FERME (DIRT ROAD)                   677        538       837       490        423        561
===ss========-=====         =====  ===   ====   ==============s======== ===                    ======



- 53 -
Annex 3 - 14
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
THE ECONOMICS OF DAIRY PRODUCTION
IN MADAGASCAR
TABLE 5 - OIC CALCIATIlMs FOR MILK
Tout Venant       Tout Venant          Metis             Matis             Matis             Pure
A                  B                 C                 D                 E                 G
-   -    -- SMP: S 1,200/T   WO: S 1,500/T   --------------  -------   ---------
1. Basic Parameters
Mitk output C/cow)      500               1000              1500              2000              2500              35CG
wortd price (Tana) USS/L    0.326              0.326             0.326             0.326             0.326             0.326
FMG/l      489               489                489               489               489               489
2. Output value per cow              244500             489000            733500            978000           1222500           17115C0
3. Input Costs:
3.1 traded inputs et worLd prices    66840             100680          248542.5            471375          606537.5          792437.5
(a) fairm
fe ds 2/     9090             18180              18180                 0                 O                 0
chemicals 3/    12000              12000             31200             31200             31200             21600
artificiel insemination 7/                                         64350             64350             64350             64350
fertitizer 9/                                         17775             1777              17M5             147650
seeds 10/                                          8100              8100              8100             1510C
lick 11/                                         13688             18250             22813             31938
concentrate 12/                                                          211700            317550            317550
equipment 13/    21000              21000             21000             21000             21000             2100C
(b) fairm to cons, point
transport 1/    24750             49500              74250             99000            123750            173250
3.2 non-traded inputs                81875             121250            162800            128675            141050             180800
(a) farm                        69500              96500            125675             79175             79175             94175
Rice Bran    19500              46500             46500                 0                 0                 a
Local equipment    10000              10000             10000             10000             10000             10000
breeding/insemination     10000             10000             32175             32175             32175             32175
vet services    30000             30000              30000             30000             30000             30000
manure        0                  0              7000              7000              7000             22000
(b) farm to cons. point         12375              24750             37125             49500             61875             86625
transport 1/    12375             24750              37125             49500             61875             86625
3.3 On faarm factor remuneration  247750             257750            368250            378250            388250            470050
labor 4/   110000            120000             150000            160000            170000            170000
land 5/8/        O                 0              4500              4500               4500             10300
capital investment 6/   137750             137750            213750            213750            213750            289750
3.4. Value of non-traded by-product   65125              65125            110250            110250            110250            165375
5. International Value Added
(a) in FMG   177660            388320          484957.5            506625           615962.5          919062.5
6. Domestic Resource Costs   264500             313875            420800            396675            419050            485475
7. DRC RATIO     1.49               0.81              0.87              0.78              0.68              0.53
1/: Transport costs are assuned to be 2/3 tradeable and 1/3 non-tradeabLe
2/: Cottonseed Meal CIF Rott USS/t 180
Export Parity Price: (CIF-Int l Tport)^FMG/USS - Tport Port-Taa - Port Ch. & Handling = 101 FMG/kg
Freight/lns a US  60/t, Tport Port-Tam: 30 FMG/kg, Port Charges & Mandling: 49 FMG/kg
3/: Chemicals domestic price net of import tax (20%)
4/: Shadow price of labor: 1000 FMG/day (market wage a 1700 FMG/dey)
5/: Under traditional techniques (models A & B), no land is specifically ellocated to dairy production
hence, returns to tand is 0
6/: interest rate is 19%, and applied on capital expenses (dairy cou, building)
7/: Artificial insemination, 66% is traded (imports), 33% ls non-treded
Under traditional techniques (Models A & B), breeding is naturel, hence 100% non-traded
8/: Valeur de la Terre 50000 FMG/ha
Avoine: planted on 0.09ha, Chloris: ptanted on .35 ha (3 years)
9/: fartilizer  a 650 FMG/kg (cout financier a cout economique)
10/: seeds: cout financier = cout acanomiqu
11/: lick: cout financier * 2 x cout economique
12/: protein meal: cout financier * cout economiqua
13/: equipment 25X nontraded, 75% traded, and import tax of 30%



- 54 -
Annex 3 - 15
Mitk              Mtilk            MItik              mtilk             Mlk               Nilk
Tout Venant       Tout Vent           MCtis             Nets              MetiE             Pure
A                 I                 C                 O                 E                 O
- Basic  SP.P: S 700/T     80: S 1,200/T  -
1. Basic Par_inters
MiLk output </cow)      500              1000              1500              2000              2500             3500
wortd price (Tenu) USS/I    0.267             0.267             0.267             0.267             0.267            0.267
FNG/L      401               401               401               401              401               401
2. Output value per cow              200500            401000            601500           802000            1002500          1403500
3. Input Costs:
3.1 traded inputs et wortd pric«     66840            100680          248542.5           471375          606537.5          792437.5
(a) fera
feeds 2/     9090             18180             18180                0                 0                 0
chemicals 3/    1200              12000             31200             31200             31200            21600
artificiat insuuination 7/                                        64350            64350             64350             64350
fertitizer 9/                                        17M5              17775             17775           14765C
seeds 10/                                         8100              8100             8100             15100
lick 11/                                        13688            18250             22813             31938
concentrate 12/                                                         211700           317550            317550
equipnent 13/    21000             21000             21000             21000            21000             21000
(b) farm to cons. point
transport 1/    24750             49f00             74250            99000             123750           173250
3.2 non-traded inputs                81875            121250            162800            128675            141050           180800
(a) farm                        69500             96500            125675             79175            79175             94175
Rice Bren    19500             46500             46500                 0                 0                O
local .quipment    10000             10000             10000             10000            10000             10000
breeding/insemination    10000             10000             32175             32175             32175            32175
vet services    30000             30000             30000             30000             30000            30000
menure        O                 O              7000              7000              7000             22000
tb) farm to cons, point         12375             24750             37125            49500             61875             86625
transport 1/    12375             24750             37125            49500             61875             86625
3.3 On farm factor remuneration   247750            257750            368250            378250           388250            470050
tabor 4/   110000            120000            150000            160000           170000            170000
tand 5/8/        0                 0              4500             4500              4500             10300
capital investment 6/   137750            137750            213750            213750            213750           28975C
3.4. Vatue of non-traded by-product   65125             65125            110250            110250            110250           165375
5. Internationat Value Added
(a) in FNB   133660            300320          352957.5           330625          395962.5          611062.5
6. Doestic Resource Costs    264500            313875            420800            396675            419050           485475
7. DRC RATIO     1.98              1.05              1.19              1.20              1.06             0.79
1/: Transport costs are assued ta be 2/3 tradeabLe and 1/3 non-tradeabte
2/: Cottonseed Meal CIF Rott USS/t 180
Export Parity Price: (CIF-!nt'l Tport)*FMG/IUSS  Tport Port-Tm - Port Ch. & Hndling a 101 FNB/kg
Freight/lns m USS 60/t, Tport Port-Tsa: 30 FlG/kg, Port Charges & Mandting: 49 FNG/Ikg
3/: Chemicats domestic price net of import tax (20X)
4/: Shadow price of tabor: 1000 FlG/day (market wage a 1700 FMB/day)
5/: Under traditionat techniques (modets A & 8), no lend is specificalty altocated to deiry production
hence, returna to tend is O
6/: interest rate is 19X, érd apptied on capital expenses (dliry cou, building)
7/: Artificial inseminetion, 66% is treded (imports), 33X is non-traded
Under traditional techniques (Models A 4 S), breeding is natural, hnce 100X non-traded
8/: VaLeur de la Terre 50000 FNG/he
Avoine: planted on 0.09ha. Chtoris: ptanted on .35 ha (3 years)
9/: fertitizer & 650 FNB/kg (cout financier * cout economique)
10/: seeds: cout financier * cout economique
11/: lick: cout financier * 2 x cout economique
12/: protein meut: cout financier a cout economique
13/: equipment 25X non-traded, 75n traded, and import tax of 30X



- 55 -
Annex4 - 4
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I. Planning and project management specialist
Responsibilities:
The consultant would be responsible to assist the Director of Livestock and the Head
of the new Planning Service to be created in carrying out and/or supervising the following activities:
- design and implementation of new administrative systems for planning, budgeting, accounting and
documentation management;
- design and implementation of a monitoring system, and coordination of monitoring activities to be
developed under other projects (e.g. the EC financed project in the South-West);
- carrying out of sub-sector or project preparation;
- coordination with DEPF for the design and implementation of livestock sector level monitoring and
evaluation systems;
- project specific accounting, including the initial establishment of suitable procedures to process
statements of expenditures (SOEs).
Duration of assignment: Four years
Oualifications:
Degree in animal production and/or veterinary science and post-graduate training in
economics and planning, or equivalent. At least ten years of professional experience. Experience in
sector planning and in managing internationally financed projects. Experience in working in
developing countries, preferably in Africa (or Madagascar).
Languages: Full working knowledge of French; working knowledge of English desirable.



- 56 -
Annex 4   -    2
II. Veterinary epidemiology specialist
Responsibilities:
The consultant would be responsible to assist the Director of Livestock and the Head
of the Veterinary Service to be re-structured in carrying out and/or supervising the following
activities:
- design and implementation of a national disease reporting system, and coordination of disease
monitoring activities to be developed under other projects (e.g. the EEC financed project in the
South-West);
- reactivation of regional diagnostic laboratories and creation of smaller laboratories at CIREL level;
- design, organization and carrying out of systematic epidemiological surveys;
- assessment of current compulsory disease control programs, and if need be formulation of new
strategies and development of new control programs.
Duration of assignment: Three years
Oualifications:
Degree in veterinary science and post-graduate training in epidemiology, or equivalent.
Experience in setting up and/or managing disease surveillance systems. Experience in working in
developing countries, preferably in Africa (or Madagascar).
Langua2es: Full working knowledge of French; working knowledge of English desirable.
III. Training specialist
Responsibilities:
The consultant would be responsible to assist the Director of Livestock and the Head
of ESSA in carrying out and/or supervising the following activities:
- carrying out a man power requirements review of the livestock sector;
- to the extend deemed necessary, propose modified or new education and training programs,
including formulate corresponding curiculums;
- manage the various training activities provided for under the project, including the identification or
selection of the entities that would deliver training, and the selection of candidates for fellowships.
Duration of assignment: Two years



- 57 -                          Annex 4    -   3
Oualifications:
Degree in agronomy, animal science or agricultural economics and post-graduate
training in education management or man-power planning, or equivalent. Several years of
professional experience in working in education management, curiculum development or man-power
planning. Experience in working in developing countries, preferably in Africa (or Madagascar).
Languazes: Full working knowledge of French; working knowledge of English desirable.
IV. Farmers associations specialist
Responsibilities:
The consultant would be responsible to assist the Directors of ROMA, Fifamanor, and
Armor in carrying out and/or supervising the following activities:
- organizing and managing support to farmers associations, unions of associations, regional and
national federations, and specialized unions, including extension, training and the transfer of assets
and responsibilities related to mating stations, milk collection centers, feed mixing, fodder seed
multiplication, etc;
- organizing, together with MPAEF/DEL, the operations of the Livestock Promotion Fund; assisting
farmners organizations to prepare and submit requests to the Fund.
Duration of assignment: Four years
Qualifications:
Degree in agronomy, animal science or agricultural economics and post-graduate
training in management, or equivalent. Several years of professional experience in working with
farmers organizations or cooperatives. Experience in working in developing countries, preferably in
Africa (or Madagascar).
Languages: Full working knowledge of French; working knowledge of English desirable.
V. Fodder specialist
Responsibilities:
The consultant would be responsible to assist the Directors of Fifamanor and Roma in
carrying out and/or supervising the following activities:
- design and carry out the fodder applied research program of the project (under the responsibility
of Fifamanor);



- 58 -
Annex 4    _   4
- organize on-farm demonstration schemes and seed multiplication (responsibility of ROMA or
Fifamanor depending on the area);
- organize the transfer of seed multiplication and distribution activities to a specialized farmers union,
in collaboration with the farmers associations specialist.
Duration of assignment: Three years
Oualifications:
Degree in agronomy and post-graduate training in plant breeding, or equivalent. Several
years of professional experience in working on fodder species at the level of applied research or seed
production. Experience in working in developing countries, preferably in Africa (or Madagascar).
Languages: Full working knowledge of French; working knowledge of English desirable.
VI. Dairy processing and marketing specialist
Resvonsibilities:
The consultant would be responsible to assist the Director of the subsidiary of Rome in
charge of the management of the three dairy plants in carrying out and/or supervising the following
activities:
- design and implement the rehabilitation program of the plants, including all aspects related to
investments, collection and processing programs, work organization and staffing;
- develop the marketing functions of the new entity;
- organize in due course the transfer of the entity managing milk processing and distribution activities
to a specialized farmers union, in collaboration with the farmers associations specialist.
Duration of assignment: Two years
Oualifications:
Degree in agro-industry engineering and/or business management, or equivalent. Several
years of professional experience in milk processing and or milk marketing management, preferably
with cooperative organizations. Experience in working in developing countries, preferably in Africa
(or Madagascar).
Languages: Full working knowledge of French; working knowledge of English desirable.



- 59 -
Annex5 -:
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cost tables
Page
Summary cost tables
Project Cost Summary                                 2
Summary Account by Project Component                 3
Summary Accounts by Year                             5
Summary Accounts Cost Summary                        7
Projects Components by Year                          8
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category              10
Financing Plan by Project Components                 12
Disbursement by Financier by Semester                14
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange I Local I Taxes   15
Detailed cost tables (quantities and base costs in US$)
Table 101. Development of Extensive Cattle Production
Strengthening Livestock Field Services        16
Table 201. Dairy Development Program
Milk Collection and Dairy Processing Plants   17
Table 202. Dairy Development Program
Feed and fodder development sub-programs      18
Table 203. Dairy Development Program
Genetic Inprovement sub-program               19
Table 204. Dairy Development Program
Extension and Farmers Associations Support    20
Table 205. Dairy Development Prograin
Milk Collection Tracks                        21
Table 501. Strengthening of DEL (Livestock Directorate)
Planning/programming, Documentation
and Support functions                         22
Table 502. Strengthening of DEL (Livestock Directorate)
Epidemiology and Disease Surveillance         23
Table 601. Monitoring - DEL
Strengthening of Monitoring capabilities of DEL  24
Table 602. Monitoring and Evaluation - DEPF
Public Sector Expenditure monitoring and Evaluation 25
Table 603. Mid-term Project Evaluation
Detailed Cost Table                           26
Table 701. Support to Privatization of Veterinary Medecine
Veterinary Promotion Center (CEPROVET)        27
Table 801. Livestock Sector Public Divestiture Program
Operation of COMODEL and Staff divestiture    28
Table 901. Formal Training Review
Review of Curiculums and programs
(Professional and techn)                      29



"**==>This document did not complete OCR process. <==**" 
