Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5509-MAG
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 14.0 MILLION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 22,1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thei- official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorId Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit                       =           Madagascar (FMG)
100 FMG                             =           US$0.067
1 US$                               =           1494 FMG (average 1990 rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 are (a)                           =           0.0247 acre
1 hectare (ha)                      =           2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km)                    =           0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)            =           0.39 square mile
I kilogram (kg)                     =           2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                         =           0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
1 ton (t)                           =           2,240 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB               African Development Bank
CCCE              Caisse centrale de Coopération économique (French Development Fund)
DEL               Livestock Directorate (Direction de l'Élevage)
DEPF              Financing, Programniing and Studies Directorate (Direction des Études, de la
Programmation et du Financement, MPAEF)
EAP               Environmental Action Plan
EC                European Community
FIAS              Foreign Investment Advisory Service
ICB               Intemational Competitive Bidding
ILS               International or Local Shopping
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MCD               French Ministry for Cooperation and Developmerit
MPAEF             Ministry of Animal Production, Water and Forests (Ministère de la Production Animale et des
Eaux et Forêts)
NORAD             Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OGLS              Open General License System
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PSAC              Public Sector Adjustment Credit
ROMANOR           Norwegian Malagasy Dairy Project
UNDP              United Nation Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Animal Production,
Waters and Forests (MPAEF)
Credit Amount:         SDR 14.0 million (US$ 19.8 million)
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms
Onlending terms:       Not applicable
Financing Plan:        Government        US$ 7.7 million
Farmers          US$ 2.6 million
CCCE                   US$ 5.4 million
MCD              US$ 1.0 million
NORAD            US$ 2.1 million
IDA              US$ 19.8 million
TOTAL            US$ 38.6 million
Economic rate of return: Dairy program: 13 to 19 per cent
Support to extensive cattle production: 17 to 22 per cent
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 9424 - MAG
Nlap:                  IBRD 20035R
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TH1E INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
1.     The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development credit to the
Democratic Republic of Madagascar for SDR 14.0 million (US$ 19.8 million equivalent) is submitted for
approvail. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity and would help
finance a livestock sector project. The project would be cofinanced by France (Caisse Centrale de
Coopération Economique (CCCE) and Ministry for Cooperation and Development (MCD)) and Norway
for SDR 6.0 million (US$ 8.5 million equivalent).
2.      A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the period 1990-1992 was discussed by the Executive
Directors of the Bank, meeting as a Committee of the Whole, on June 12, 1990. The PFP and the
second annual arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) was approved by
the IMF on June 13, 1990. Part I of the document discusses the country's economic performance and
prospects, and the Bank's Group assistance strategy. Part II describes the proposed credit. Basic
econoniic data are presented in Annex 1.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. The Economy
1. Background
3.      With a population of about 11 million growing at 3 percent per year and a per capita income
of about US$220 in 1989, Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. It is the world's
fourth largest island, with a rugged topography, variations in soils and climate, some mineral endowment,
and a unique flora and fauna. Rice is the country's main staple, and the major exports are coffee,
vanilla, cloves and shellfish. At the time of independence in 1960, Madagascar was a net exporter of rice
and had a thriving private sector which operated in a relatively liberal economic environment. Since
then, thie country's economic record is one of modest growth until 1970, stagnation from 1970 to 1980,
sharp deterioration between 1980 and 1982, and financial stabilization with limited economic growth from
1983 through 1987. Since 1988, economic results have been encouraging.
4.      The disappointing growth performance of the 1970s stemmed largely from inappropriate
economic policies. These emphasized a much increased public sector role, with import substitution and
industriialization as the central objective and agriculture in a supporting role, nationalization of enterprises,
extensive consumer subsidies, and pervasive controls on private economic activity. Nevertheless, for
most of the decade, fiscal deficits remained low; the resource gap averaged 4 percent of GDP; and the
debt-service ratio was also kept at a low level (about 4 percent). Between 1978 and 1980, however, the
Government embarked on an "all-out" public investment policy which was not coordinated, and included
large and economically non-viable projects financed largely by external borrowing on commercial terms.
This ill-advised policy combined with declining terms of trade and stagnant domestic revenues led to an
11 percent decline in real GDP from 1980 to 1982, as well as a large external debt burden, which still



2
heavily mortgages the economy. Government's efforts at financial stabilization began in 1981 and were
subsequently reinforced with IMF assistance.
2. Adjustment Performance
a) Stabilization
5.      Since 1985, four IMF standby arrangements have been successfully completed which permitted
the replacement in May 1989 of standby resources with the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility.
Domestic revenue suffered from the economic decline (and particularly from a fall in imports), and
contracted from 14 percent of GDP in 1981 to less than 12 percent in 1989. Public expenditure, on the
other hand, was slashed more severely from 31 percent of GDP in 1981 to 19 percent by 1989. As a
result, the deficit (including grants) was cut sharply, from 18 percent of GDP in 1981 to just over 4
percent in 1989, and the structure and terms of its financing improved considerably. Partly as a result,
monetary creation slowed, and so did inflation, from its peak of 31 percent in 1981 to 9 percent in 1989.
Over the same nine years, the external current account deficit (including transfers) dropped from 10.1
percent of GDP to 5 percent, and the overall balance of payments turned from a deficit of $97 million
(2.7 percent of GDP) to a surplus of $61 million (2.4 percent of GDP in 1989).
b) Structural Reforms
6.     In parallel with its efforts to stabilize the economy, the Governmnent turned its attention to
supply-oriented measures with IDA support provided through four policy-based credits. It pursued a
cautious reform strategy that addressed structural distortions sector by sector, focusing primarily on
agriculture, transport and industry. By the mid-1980s, the reform program was intensified and expanded
to address both the sectoral and the macroeconomic constraints to growth, including such issues as the
trade regime, the composition and level of public expenditures, public enterprise reform and financial
sector efficiency. The package of sectoral and macroeconomic reform measures implemented between
1983 and 1988 altered substantially the economic landscape in IMadagascar and laid the foundation for
the resumption of economic growth, evident in 1988 and 1989. The major elements of the Government's
reform program are highlighted below.
7.      Between 1983 and 1988, Madagascar succeeded in elimrinating virtually all price controls. In
1983, the Government freed the producer price of paddy and completed the reform in 1985 by freeing
the consumer price of rice. In 1986, it completely revised the framework for agricultural pricing and
marketing, and reduced the number of agricultural commodities for which prices continued to be fixed
to six; in 1988 they were further reduced to three (cotton, sugarcane, and tobacco). Tariffs for road
transporters were deregulated in 1985. The Governnent subsequently decontrolled the retail prices of
goods representing 90 percent of the value added in the industrial sector. In addition, it eliminated all
profit margin controls between 1987 and early 1989.
8.      At the same time, the Government began to scale back the public sector marketing monopolies
and the scope of direct government intervention in distribution. Most notably, it legalized private trade
in rice, groundnuts and pulses, and it phased out the rice distribution program, which was interfering with
development of the private sector market. Public monopolies ini the road freight trade were removed.
A major breakthrough was achieved in 1988 when the state monopolies for coffee, clove and pepper
exports were abolished and direct exports of these products by private traders were legalized. Currently,
only vanilla trade remains controlled.



3
9.      To complement action taken on the domestic pricing and marketing front, the Govermnent
embarked on an ambitious program of tariff reform. It eliminated all import prohibitions and quantitative
restrictiions between 1987 and 1988, except for few specific health and security-related items.
Subsequently, it implemented the first phase of a four-year program by replacing all product-specific rates
by ad valorem rates, reducing the number of product categories from 69 to 16, and introducing minimum
and maximum tariffs of 5 percent and 80 percent, respectively. A temporary surcharge of 30 percent
applicable to certain products was reduced to 10 percent in early 1989 and eliminated in early 1990.
10.     Until 1987, the exchange regime was characterized by a chronically overvalued exchange rate
and administrative allocation of foreign exchange. In mid-1987, the Govermnent devalued the Malagasy
Franc (FMG) by 36 percent in trade-weighted foreign currency terms and by a further 14 percent in
1988, bringing the real effective exchange rate to 45 percent of its level at the beginning of the decade.
In parallel, a step-by-step freeing up of foreign exchange allocation led, in July 1988, to the full
introduction of the non-discretionary Open General License (OGL) system of foreign exchange allocation
for merchandise imports. Notwithstanding recent developments (paras. 14-16), the OGL system has
generally operated satisfactorily.
il.    In the mid-1980s, the Government also began to address the serious problems of the public
enterprise (PE) and state-owned banking sectors. It placed limits on budgetary transfers and banking
sector credits going to PEs, and in 1987 the state-owned banks started restructuring their portfolios by
provisioning more aggressively against non-performing assets. In 1988 the Government moved to
rationalize the PE sector with a program of liquidations, divestitures and restructurings. Moreover, it
enacted a new banking law permitting private sector participation in existing banks and the establishment
of new private financial institutions, the objective being to increase competition in the financial sector.
A new private commercial bank opened its doors in late 1989; one of three state institutions has been
privatized fully and another one partially. In general, restructuring of the banking and PE sectors has
been slower than anticipated, partly because of inherent political constraints but also because of the
process-intensive nature of the reforms.
12.     Regarding the allocation of public expenditures, the budgetary and debt crisis engendered by
the crash investment program of the late 1970s forced the Government to adopt a fundamental policy
reorienitation, reflected in the 1986-90 Development Plan, that stressed maintenance and rehabilitation,
improved utilization of capacity, a much reduced role for manufacturing and a major rationalization for
agriculture. The years 1988/1989 marked the beginning of tangible results in these areas. The first
rolling triennial public investment program was formulated for 1989-91. This represented a significant
improvement in programming and in the quality of the project portfolio relative to previous years. It was
followed by the program for 1990-92 which incorporated further improvements, mainly an increased
aggregate provision of counterpart funding for externally-assisted projects, and the beginning of a
significant reorientation of current expenditure toward priority needs in the areas of primary health, basic
education and public safety.
13.     Overall, despite slower than expected progress in "process-oriented" policy areas (i.e., banking,
public enterprise and budgetary reforms), the cumulative implementation of the package of sectoral and
macroeconomic reforms introduced since 1985 has been satisfactory and has contributed to the resumption
of per capita growth as early as 1988, after more than a decade of decline. In the rice sector, the
response to the liberalization measures taken in late 1986 was practically immediate, with the 1987 season
showing a substantial production increase. As a result, and despite bad weather in 1988 and 1990,
Madagascar has now significantly reduced its heavy food import dependency, with rice imports declining
from 300,000 tons in 1982 to 60,000 tons in 1990. For the economy as a whole, it was not realistic to
expect a supply response much before 1989, because most of the crucial structural adjustment reforms



4
(price decontrol, exchange regime, external trade, restructuring of the banking sector, public enterprise
and improved allocation of public expenditures) only began taking place only in 1987.
c) Recent Macroeconomic Developments
14.     Preliminary data suggest that in 1990, per capita growth was positive for the third consecutive
year, but that because of adverse weather conditions GDP grew by 3.8 percent, or less than the
programmed target of 4.6 percent. The inflation rate increased from 9 percent in 1989 to an estimated
12 percent in 1990, reflecting particularly large rises in the pr.ices of foodstuffs and a 24 percent
adjustment in petroleum product prices in September. The overall Fiscal deficit declined from 4.1 percent
of GDP in 1989 to an estimated 1.2 percent in 1990, owing to the combined effect of a lower than
programmed implementation of public investment expenditures and increased fiscal revenues from import
taxes associated with a sharp rise in imports.
15.     Economic and financial developments in 1990 were marked by a slackened effort on the part
of the authorities, particularly in the areas of exchange rate and credit policy. From early 1989 to August
1990, the nominal exchange rate of the FMG remained virtually unchanged. Given the inflation
differential between Madagascar and its major trading partners, the real effective exchange rate
appreciated by 9 percent over the same period. This triggered a surge in imports, facilitated by a sharp
rise in credit to the economy (17.5 percent between January and July 1990). Productive imports (raw
materials, spare parts and capital goods), and consumer goods, increased about equally (30 percent each)
in value terms. In addition, the country's oil bill increased by over 80 percent, reflecting the
replenishment of Madagascar's depleted oil stocks in the second half of the year, after oil prices soared.
The surge of imports was compounded by a 28 percent decline in traditional exports (essentially due to
lower prices of coffee and cloves) and a stagnation in nontraditional exports. As a result, the trade
account moved from equilibrium in 1989 to an estimated US$145; million deficit (5 percent of GDP) in
1990, a level which was unprecedented for Madagascar since the early 1980s.
16.     Despite a sizeable decline in scheduled external interest obligations resulting from prior debt
cancellations, the sharp reversal in the trade position led to a significant widening of the external current
account deficit from US$220 million (8.7 percent of GDP) in 1989 to US$358 million (11.3 percent of
GDP) in 1990. Concomitantly, while eliminating all outstandirig arrears, Madagascar experienced a
sizeable shortfall in programnmed disbursements of external assistance (from IDA in particular), on
account of delays in fulfilling the conditionality of on-going adjustment operations. As a result, total
gross reserves declined from over eight months of imports at end-1989 to less than two months by end-
1990. In fact, freely available reserves were exhausted by then.
17.     The authorities did adjust the exchange rate but only by a total of 3.4 percent during the last
three months of 1990. This adjustment was too little and too late, forcing the Central Bank to
temporarily freeze credit to the economy in October 1990. This action severely restricted economic
activity in the latter part of the year and threatened to stall the initial supply response. Following
consultations with the Bank and the Fund, the authorities depreciated the FMG by 13 percent in January
1991, and have since then pursued an active exchange rate (crawling-peg) policy, with a view to easing
the credit-freeze intended to reduce imports.



5
Table I:  MADAGASCAR - KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(percent, except where indicated)
1987        1988        1989       1990
Gross Domestic Product growth rate                  1.7       3.7         4.9        3.8
Gross Domestic Income growth rate                 -0.7        2.3         2.8        3.4
GDI per capita growth rate                        -3.6       -0.4        -0.2        0.4
Private Consumption p.c. gr. rate                 -3.5        0.1        -3.0        4.3
Debt Service (USS miLLion) a/                    421.6      431.8       520.9      494.0
Debt Service Ratio                               101.2      102.7       108.8      109.6
Debt Service as X of GDP                           16.3      17.3        20.5        15.6
Debt Service (USS million) 2/                    200.0      221.0       238.0      256.0
Debt Service Ratio                                48.0       52.5        49.3       56.8
Debt Service in X of GOP                            7.7       8.9         9.3        8.1
Gross Investment/GDP c/ di                        13.5       14.5        15.0       15.6
Domestic Savings/GDP                                8.1       8.1         10.3        7.1
Nationat Savings/GDP SV                            3.6        3.9         6.3        4.3
Public/Private Investment Ratio ci                  ...        1.4         1.4        1.1
Government Revenue/GDP _e                          16.6      15.4        15.3       15.1
Goverrnment Expenditure/GDP f/                    20.1       18.8        19.4       16.3
Deficit(-) or surplus (+)/GDP                      -3.5      -3.4        -4.1       -1.2
Export tG&NFS) Growth Rate                         17.7      -0.8        28.8       -8.4
Exports (G&NFS)/GDP                                15.7      16.0        17.9       13.8
Share of Traditional Exports a/                   46.2       34.3        33.0       24.7
Import (G&NFS) Growth Rate                        -8.1       -1.6         3.1       11.2
Imports/GDP                                       21.0       22.5        22.6       22.3
Current Account Balance (USS min) h/            -256.6    -263.4       -220.1    -358.2
Current Account Balance/GDP h/                    -9.9      -10.6        -8.7      -11.3
I/    Scheduled amortization and interest.
hi   After debt relief.
L/    Figures through 1988 are estimated on a basis which is not strictly comparable ta those of the
foltowing years. Among others, beginning in 1989, a new consolidation of capital budget has
been used, creating a discontinuity in private and public investment.
É/    Includes variations in stocks.
Ê/    Including grants.
I/    Including settlement of payments delays.
g/   As percentage of total exports.
h/    Excluding officia[ transfers and capital grants.
B. Lookinz Ahead
1. Prospects
18.       Current Bank staff projections are based on consolidation and extension of the policy reform
efforit consistent with the PFP (1990-92) which encompasses the Government's agenda outlined in the
section below. GDP is projected to grow at an annual average of 4.7 percent over 1991-93, a slight
acceleration compared to the 4.1 percent actually registered in 1988-90. Careful monetary and credit
policies should lead to a decline in inflation to less than 10 percent, and thus contribute to exchange rate
stability. The Government, however, is firmly committed to taking on a timely basis all actions necessary
to avoid a loss in international competitiveness.  Partly because of this, after the pause of 1990,
nontraditional exports of goods and services should resume the pace of growth shown in 1989. This
should more than offset the expected stagnation of traditional exports, which will continue to face
unfavorable market prospects. Prospects for sustainability beyond 1993 would be improved by the
expected growth in foreign private investment, the continuation of export diversification, the ensuing



6
decrease in dependence on foreign aid, and more generally, the overall rise in confidence stemming from
market-oriented policies.
2. Reform Agenda
19.     To attain its medium-term objectives, the Government's policy agenda for the next several years
centers on two themes: further improvement in the structure of private incentives -- mainly in the
exchange rate regime, and the regulatory environment; and continauation of ongoing efforts both to reduce
the size of the public sector and to increase the efficiency of Government. To be sustainable,
Madagascar's policies must also give increasing priority to longer-term concerns and priorities -- foremost
among them fertility reduction, primary health, basic education, and the environment.
a) Private Sector Incentives
20.     Foreign Exchange Regime. In the light of major progress achieved by the introduction of the
OGL system for allocating foreign exchange for merchandise imnports, the Central Bank is shifting from
ex-ante to ex-post control of foreign exchange allocation for merchandise imports and the Government
is progressively reducing restrictions to imports of invisibles, commencing in 1991 with business-related
services and repatriation of invested foreign capital. The effectilve use of the exchange rate as an active
instrument of macroeconomic policy constitutes an essential part of the agenda.
21.     Regulatory Environment. Scant attention has so far been given to the legal and administrative
environment for business activity, apart from the recent promulgation of a new investment code and free
trade zone legislation, in itself a significant step in the right direction. A major effort in underway to
remove rapidly restrictions on labor mobility, land ownership by foreigners, and entry-exit of firms.
Over the 1991-93 period, the Government also aims to complete the adaptation of the regulatory
environment (e.g., commercial code, fair business practices) to the new liberal path of the country. The
reform agenda also includes the deregulation in 1991-93 of reniaining key state-monopoly sectors such
as air transport and petroleum.
22.     Trade Resime. Madagascar has made substantial progress in the liberalization of domestic and
external trade. Only vanilla remains price-administered and its external trade a government monopoly.
Liberalization of the sector is a priority in the reform agenda, particularly in the light of a severe erosion
of Madagascar's share of the world market. In parallel, the Government would complete the four-year
program of tariff reform initiated in 1988 to establish, by 1992, a simple and uniform structure, with
rates from 10 percent to 50 percent according to the degree of processing.
23.     Financial Sector. Since 1987, the government-ownecl banking system has undergone a major
restructuring to encourage efficient resource mobilization anid intermediation.  These institutional
measures are being accompanied since 1990 by a gradual move in monetary policy away from reliance
on direct mechanisms, notably bank-by-bank credit ceilings, to indirect instruments. The financial sector
reforms need to be pursued to complete the restructuring of the banking system and broadened to
encompass non-bank financial institutions, the insurance industry in particular. The objective is to reform
the regulatory framework of the industry by end 1991 and open the sector to private investment in 1992.
b) Public Sector Management
24.     Public Enterprise Reform. To date, out of some 170 public enterprises oPEs) existing in 1986,
29 have been dissolved, 8 have been privatized, and the process of divestiture has been initiated for an



7
additiional 12 enterprises. A further 20 enterprises have been targeted by the Government for dissolution
or priivatization. The 69 enterprises included in the first phase of the reform program -- expected to be
completed in 1992 - represent 40 percent of the value-added of the PE sector in 1986. Under a second
phase, additional enterprises would be targeted for dissolution or privatization in 1993 and beyond. To
accelerate the pace of the divestiture program, a single entity responsible for its execution has recently
been created.
25.     Public Resource Mobilization. Fiscal pressure, measured by the tax/GDP ratio, is low in
Madagascar and has, in fact, worsened from 13 percent in 1987 to 9 percent in 1989. The low fiscal
effort is explained by the small collection base, an overly complicated tax system, and most of all, a weak
tax administration. Over the 1991-1993 period, the Government intends to increase the yield and improve
the neutrality of the tax system. As a step in this direction, effective January 1, 1991, the Government
unified the dual corporate income tax rate, which discriminated against trade activities, at a single 35
percent level. Based on an ongoing study to be completed in 1991, the Government intends to pursue
the rationalization effort, starting in 1992 with domestic indirect taxation, with a view to increasing its
base and eliminating price distortions. The Government also aims to design by the end of 1991, with
technical assistance from France, an action plan focussed on improving the administration of major taxes,
import taxation in particular.
26.     Public Resource Allocation.  Starting later in 1991, the Government will strengthen the
moniltoring of its Public Investment Program (PIP) by introducing quarterly implementation reviews. To
further improve public resource management, revisions in the budget nomenclature and procedures will
be introduced in the balance of 1991, and, by end-1992, the Government intends to present to the
National Assembly a consolidated 1993 budget encompassing all Government and donor-financed
expeniditures.
27.     Civil Service Reform. Madagascar's civil service grew rapidly over the last two decades and
it has yet to begin adapting to its new support role to private initiative. Austerity measures adopted in
the 1980s led to a major decline in the real purchasing power of civil servants' salaries, which further
affected administrative capacity. A civil service census was carried out in 1990 and the validation of the
results is now about complete, thus making possible --and urgent- the design of a comprehensive reform
action program. The objective of the reform program is the reallocation of human resources toward
priority public activities and the modification of the structure of incentives, compensation in particular,
all within overall financial constraints.
3. The Long-Term Concerns
28.     Average population density is comparatively low in Madagascar. However, the pattern of
seulement results in localized areas of intense population pressure. With mobility severely constrained
by geographic and social factors, population growth is a paramount long-range concern. At the current
3 percent annual growth rate, Madagascar's population would reach 20 million by the year 2005 and over
40 million by the year 2030. In addition to absorbing most of the gains in production, such an increase
would put heavy strains on the system's capacity to provide basic social services and, in all probability,
would doom Madagascar's already-endangered unique environment. In a significant attitude shift, the
Government now recognizes the reality of the population-agriculture-environment nexus, and adopted in
1990 a National Population Policy. The two key features of this policy are a realistic target for fertility
reduction (from 6.4 to 3.2 by the year 2010), and the recognition of the right of all to receive information
on miodern contraception and practice it on an entirely voluntary basis. Though the social climate is
generally receptive to the notion of family planning, fertility reduction in Madagascar will be a long-term
process, heavily constrained by institutional and resource considerations.



8
29.     To be sustainable over the longer term, Madagascar's policies must also continue to give priority
to human resource development. The country is comparatively fortunate in that a fairly extensive
network of trained people is in place. On the other hand, social conditions are grievous and the needs
are great. Child mortality rates are high (around 20 percent of live births); endemic and communicable
diseases are prevalent (AIDS has just made its appearance in Mladagascar); the basic education system
is crippled by funding and institutional problems; chronic malnutrition affects some 40 percent of the
population; one-third of households are food insecure; the primary health care system is largely
inoperative owing mainly to lack of supplies. Without relieving the extreme shortage of basic supplies
and strengthening institutions at both the central and local levels (coupled, of course, with sustained
growth), social improvements will not be realistically possible. Specific interventions are also envisaged
to address the plight of the most vulnerable segments of society, adbeit on a very careful and well-targeted
basis. Small pilot schemes, supported by the Bank and other donors are already in place and their
experience is helping shape larger, more amnbitious programs, including on the Government side the
articulation of an overall food security strategy.
30.     Madagascar is one of the ecologically richest countries in the world, but the country is caught
in a spiral of environment degradation that threatens not only the unique heritage of biodiversity, but
sustainable economic growth itself. Largely from demographic Ipressure, burning of pasture, cultivation
of unprotected hill slopes and slash-and-burn practices have led to soil erosion, deforestation, declining
agricultural productivity and infrastructural deterioration, particularly silting up of ports. Madagascar
was the first country in Africa to adopt (in 1989) an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) supported by the
international financial and NGO community. Conceived as a process extending over fifteen years, the
EAP encourages priority programs and establishes a foundation for sustainable environmental
management.
4. Performance indicators
31.     Buoyed by the economic success achieved in 1988 and 1989, the Government eased on its
adjustment effort in 1990. This led to a rapid deterioration in the reserve situation. However, strong
corrective measures have been taken since and the Governmeni: is now keen on completing the reform
agenda. Nonetheless, inadequate performance in critical areas would trigger a re-evaluation of economic
prospects and, if warranted, a reassessment of the level and orientation of the Bank's proposed assistance
program. The key indicators for judging progress in the implementation of the country's adjustment
program include: (i) maintaining an exchange rate consistent with appropriate demand in the expanded
OGL to cover invisibles, and with growth in non-traditional exports (para. 20); (ii) implementing the
reforms of the regulatory environment, particularly the removal of restrictions on labor mobility and
entry-exit of firms essential for improving the business climate ()ara. 21); and (iii) continuing the reform
program in the public sector, including public enterprise, budget and civil service. Progress in the design
and implementation of poverty alleviation policies and programrs is crucial for the sustainability of the
adjustment process and would impact on the delivery of the Bank's assistance program.
C. Bank Group Operations
32.     Until 1986, the Bank's strategy was characterized by a sector-by-sector approach because of the
absence of conditions necessary for an across-the-board adjustment program (para. 6). As the reforms
agreed upon under the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (FY85) and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (FY86) started yielding positive results, an increased political commitment to reform developed
within the Government. It accepted economy-wide structural reforms for the first time with the Industry



9
and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (FY87), and since the beginning of 1988 started the process of public
sector ireforms with the Public Sector Adjustment credit (FY88), drawing strength from the increased
availability of consumer goods resulting from the trade and exchange rate liberalization.
33.      Beginning with an IDA road credit in 1966, 51 credits amounting to US$1,131.14 million
(including US$120 million from the Special Facility for Africa) have so far been approved for
Madagascar. Lending has been concentrated on infrastructure, agriculture, industry and trade, energy,
the social sectors and adjustment. Since FY85, aside from adjustment operations, new lending has been
focusedt primarily on the rehabilitation and use of existing productive facilities and, more recently, on
environment protection and human resource development.
Table Ill: MADAGASCAR - DISTRIBUTION OF BANK LENDING FY86-90
(US$ million)
Amount
Sector                                  FY86-90       X of Total
Adjustment Lending Operations                 285.3              45.5
Transport                                      78.0              12.4
Social Sectors                                 69.3              11.4
Financial Sector & Private Enterprise          48.0               7.7
Agriculture                                    47.7               7.6
Forestry & Envirorwnent                        33.0               5.3
Urban (Antananarivo Plain Development)         30.5               4.8
Energy                                         25.0               3.9
Mining (Engineering)                            8.6               1.4
TOTAL                                         627.4             100.0
D. Country Assistance Strategy
34.     The primary goal of the Bank's country strategy is to assist the Government in completing
its policy reform agenda (paras. 20-27) as quickly as possible in order to strengthen the basis for
rapid but sustainable and equitable growth, with increased focus on poverty alleviation. Its design
(including ESW, lending and portfolio management) is explicitly focussed on three main objectives:
(i) boost the rate of private investment and improve, in particular, the sluggish performance of non-
traditional exports; (ii) streamline the role of Governinent and strengthen its service delivery capacity;
and (iii) improve the sustainability of development with the help of socially equitable and
environmentally sound policies and programs. Analytical support in connection with ESW and
adjustnient lending will specifically assist the country in further improving the incentive framework
for private investment and export, and support the broadening of the reform program to cover civil
service and taxation policy, beyond the ongoing PE and budgetary reforms. Expanded investment
lending would: (i) provide direct and indirect support for private sector development; (ii) rehabilitate
and develop supportive physical infrastructure, transport and communications in particular; and (iii)
assist government in its increasing efforts to address effectively the long-term development issues in
environment, health, education, family planning and nutrition.



10
1. Analytical Support
35.     The centerpiece of analytical support this year is a Country Economic Memorandum
(recently submitted to the Government for its review), which focuses on an analysis of the economic
situation, the lessons of the reforms to date and the long-term outlook. The CEM will serve, together
with the PFP as the main supporting document for the next Consultative Group meeting this fall. In
addition, the ESW program includes reviews of public expenditure, the civil service, and selective
analytical work to support the dialogue on structural adjustment. The program includes reviews of
the agriculture, telecommunications and financial sectors, and, in cooperation with UNDP, will be
bolstered by the provision of direct technical assistance to reform the legal and regulatory framework
as well as the incentive framework, specifically with a view to encouraging private investment and
improving export performance.
36.     Without reducing the importance given to adjustment issues in the ESW, the country
assistance strategy will continue the progressive shift toward long-term development issues with a
focus on poverty alleviation. The lending program will be supported by subject-specific work on
nutrition, food security and institutional issues in family planning.
2. Adiustment Lending
37.     The proportion of adjustment lending, which was 45 percent in FY86-90 will decline to 34
percent in the FY91-93 period, as the Government completes its adjustment agenda. This should be
sufficient to consolidate the new policy framework and to provide the support required to complete
the liberalization of the services account of the balance of payments (para. 20).
38.     The Government's reform agenda is ambitious and its timely implementation constitutes
therefore a major challenge. However, the overall track record of Madagascar on the adjustment
front indicates that the Government's commitment is, on the whole, serious and enduring. Although
the thrust of the reform program has been agreed with the Government in the framework of the PFP
process as well as in connection with the preparation of the next policy-based operation, the design
and timing of specific measures will still require significant inputs from Bank staff, particularly in
the areas of incentive policy, PE reform and civil service, in which political and social considerations
have to be weighed carefully. As in the past, close coordination with the IMF will be assured in
providing advice to the authorities on a scenario conducive to growth and on the detailed timing of
the planned liberalization of the service account of the balance of payments. Special attention will
be given to links between macro and sectoral policies, particularly in the agriculture and industrial
sectors.
3. Investment and Sector Project Lending
39.    Investment lending will play a vital role in the Bank's country assistance strategy over the
coming years and should contribute to growth, employment and structural adjustment by: (i)
providing direct financial support to the private sector through the rehabilitated banking system; (ii)
supporting the Government's provision of services to the agricultural sector; (iii) removing existing
bottlenecks in infrastructure; and (iv) addressing the long-term development issues in environment,
family planning, nutrition, health, and education.
40.     Complementing the policy reforms supporting private sector development, investment
lending will be channelled to the private sector through the banking system at positive real interest
rates as part of the Government's effort to implement an effective and comprehensive financing and



il
promotion plan for that sector. Particular attention will be given to the development of small- and
medium-scale enterprises.
41.     The Bank's strategy in the agriculture sector is to facilitate the integration of Madagascar
into world markets and to ensure the better functioning of the local markets to bridge the gap between
appropriate macro policies and inconsistent signals to producers. This would be achieved by:
traditional project lending in support of rural infrastructure and agriculture services, including the
development of trade and rural finance concomitant with a further contraction of the role of the State
in productive activities. The proposed Livestock Sector Project fits well within this strategy,
combining policy and institutional reforms with investment to support production and marketing.
42.     Lending in the infrastructure sector will be expanded in order to remove physical constraints
to growth. In addition to continuing support for the development of the transport and power
networks, projects will span the water supply, urban, petroleum and telecommunications sectors.
Special attention will be given to the financial viability/cost recovery of the sectors' institutions;
employment generation, particularly in the road construction and rehabilitation programs; and
stimulation of private sector development.
43.     The Bank is prepared to act as a catalyst for Government and donor activities dealing with
population and environment issues, e.g., by ensuring that sector policies and programs adequately
address population and environmental issues, supporting a rationalization of the institutional
frameworks and assisting in external resource mobilization. The priority given to environmental
issues and the need to adopt a long-term perspective will be translated into sequential projects, the
first of which was approved in FY90. In the population field, effort will initially focus on fostering
the use of the public health and education systems to address demographic and family health issues,
and gradually expand in support of Government investment for the provision of family planning
services.
44.     In health. nutrition and education, the country assistance strategy is to provide strong
analytical support and to encourage greater coordination among the Government agencies involved.
Emphasis will be placed on development of national policies and programs in these sectors,
particularly in education and health. Lending instruments will remain flexible, ranging from support
for traditional projects and sector-wide operations. In the health sector, a project is being prepared
giving particular attention to endemic diseases and drug distribution policy. In the nutrition sector,
efforts will focus on reducing child malnutrition. In the education sector, priority will be given to
further improvements in primary and secondary education through planned support for vocational and
technical training.
E) Aid Coordination
45.     Madagascar's overall adjustment program receives support from a large number of bilateral
and multilateral donors. Largely in the framework of the Special African Facility, adjustment
operations to date have been cofinanced by the African Development Bank, Germany, Japan,
Norway, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland. Moreover, France has provided balance-of-payments support
as well as parallel financing for the banking sector restructuring supported by the PSAC. Donors
have been regularly kept informed of the state of the Bank's dialogue with the Government, both
under the SPA mechanism and in the context of regular donor coordination meetings in Madagascar.
The African Development Bank, the European Economic Community, Japan and Switzerland have
expressed interest in cofinancing or parallel financing of the next adjustment operation which, as
earlier indicated, is in advanced stage of preparation. Effective donor coordination has and will



12
remain an important element of the country strategy, particularly in helping Madagascar mobilize the
additional financing needed to rebuild its level of foreign exchange reserves while maintaining
progress in adjustment.
46.    Implementation of the adjustment program has required close coordination with the IMF,
not only to monitor the macroeconomic framework and the PF]P but also in the design of specific
adjustment operations supported by IDA and the policy content of Fund arrangements. Bank and
Fund staff cooperation have included joint or parallel missions, frequent discussions on proposed
policies and close contacts during actual negotiations.
47.     The scope of IFC involvement is increasing with a focus on promoting small and medium-
scale projects through: (a) the Africa Project Development Facility which is already active in
Madagascar assisting entrepreneurs and businessmen develop their ideas, prepare feasibility studies
and find funding for their projects; and (b) the Africa Enterprise Fund which will make investments
in small and medium-scale enterprises, on similar terms to those of IFC itself. In addition, IFC's
role is being broadened through the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) to assist the
Government in the elaboration of new tax and investment codes. IFC assistance is expected to
concentrate primarily on private sector development, and in particular on: (a) investment in export-
oriented enterprises, particularly in the textile, garment, fisheries, mining and tourism sectors; (b)
corporate restructurings to strengthen the capital base of potentially strong companies, including
support for privatization opportunities; and (c) initial steps to develop a capital market in Madagascar;
this will include a study of the leasing regulatory environment in view of establishing the first leasing
company in Madagascar.
Summinz up
48.     By contrast to the early 1980s, a snapshot of prevailing economic conditions shows a more
competitive exchange rate; an automatic system of allocation of foreign exchange for imports and the
replacement of import quotas with tariffs; the abolition of most export taxes, and of all but one of
the state export monopolies; a free-trade-zone regime and a liberal new investment code; the virtual
disappearance of state controls on both producer and consumer prices as well as on profit margins;
a drastic reduction of the drain of public resources into inefficient parastatals; an open and financially
rehabilitated banking system; and gradual improvements in the efficiency of public expenditure. In
terms of per capita growth, economic results in 1988 and 1989 have begun to validate these years of
sustained effort. Achievements were put at risk in 1990 by a foreign exchange liquidity crisis. While
corrective actions have been taken, recent developments have shown that this is no time for
complacency. The key objective for Madagascar is to keep up the momentum and the direction of
reform. The first order of business is to improve further the structure of private incentives - in the
exchange and trade system and the regulatory environment. Secondly, the state has a responsibility
to improve over time the efficiency of domestic resource mobilization and allocation. Thirdly,
greater efforts are needed to address long-range concerns of special relevance to the country:
population, human resource development and the environment.
49.     The Bank Group is well-placed to support Madagascar's effort to complete its reform
agenda, remove bottlenecks, particularly infrastructural, and address long-term development concerns.
The main goal of the Bank's strategy is to help create an enabling enviromnent for private investment
and export expansion through further policy-based lending and analytical support in connection with
ESW. As Madagascar completes its policy reform agenda, the composition of the country assistance
program will shift in favor of investment and institutional development, with a view to improving the
sustainability of development in the context of socially and environmentally sound policies and



13
programs.  Performance in key areas of the adjustment program would be monitored and if
waranted, the Bank's assistance program would be reassessed as regards both its level and
orienltation. Continued close cooperation with the donor community, with the Bank playing a lead
role in resource mobilization and a catalytic role on population and environmental issues, is a key
aspect of the Bank strategy.
Il. THE CREDIT
50.    Background: The livestock subsector contribution to the economy is over 8.5% of GDP
(19% of agricultural GDP). Over 60% of farm families are involved in livestock raising and in
western areas livestock constitutes virtually the only source of monetary revenue. Livestock also
provides the power to till over half of Madagascar's total area under cultivation and is the major
source of fertilizer for crops. The country has a comparative advantage in meat and milk production
because of the absence of major cattle diseases common in Africa and of the potential for good
quality pasture and other feed production. The livestock subsector grew satisfactorily until the mid-
1970s, succeeding easily in supplying local demand while allowing for substantial beef exports.
Since, internal demand has stagnated or declined with deteriorating incomes, and beef exports to the
European Community (EC) were closed down because of sanitary problems with the slaughterhouses.
As a result, beef production decreased, while milk production increased much less than population
growth; pork, poultry and mutton production were almost stagnant. Per capita beef consumption is
38% lower than in 1960, and dairy imports have more than doubled. The capacity of the Ministry
of Livestock and Forestry (MPAEF) to service the livestock sector has badly eroded during the last
15 years. Unclear mandates, poor work programming and supervision, lack of operating funds and
supporting investments and low salaries have undermined staff morale and crippled the ministry.
51.    Rationale for IDA involvement: Three factors make a resumption of livestock lending to
Mad agascar a priority at this time. First, meat export prospects are good as sanitary restrictions on
export slaughterhouses have been lifted and the country has an export quota of 7800 tons per year
under a preferential tariff system with the EC. Second, local milk production has become competitive
as a result of the adjustment measures together with the reduction in the world supply of subsidized
milk: powder, and there is substantial scope for import substitution. Third, government has agreed
to a major reorganization of MPAEF's Livestock Department (DEL), whereby certain functions such
as veterinary assistance and supply of drugs will be privatized. Under these changed conditions, the
sector could contribute significantly to import substitution and exports, while increased domestic
consumption would have a positive impact on nutrition. The proposed project would extend the
ongoing reform of the public sector to a key productive sector of the economy. Bank involvement
would ensure a coordinated donor support to the reform process.
52.    Project objectives: The ultimate objective of the project is to increase livestock output in
order to reverse a potentially alarming demand/supply situation, as well as to promote exports. The
on-going adjustment process would be extended to the livestock sector in the overall context of
government's liberalization policy, and will be supported by institution building measures included
in die project. A production development component has been designed, which would improve
animal health delivery systems at the national level, provide specific support to extensive cattle
production, and promote intensive dairy production systems in the highlands, mainly through
prormotion of farmers associations. The project would be part of a sector program consisting of a
number of coordinated parallel projects.



14
53.    Project description: Policy reform for the livestock sector is outlined in a policy statement
issued by Govermment on April 17, 1991. It would be supported by institution strengthening and
production components. The reform would include: a redefirnition of the respective responsibilities
of government and the private sector; the allowance of free and fair competition in the incentive
framework; the promotion of producer associations; the privatization of the veterinary profession; the
introduction of cost recovery; the divestiture of government parastatals; and the tightening of border
sanitary controls. The institution strengthening component would improve the capacity of DEL and
the Programming Directorate (DEPF) in MPAEF. It would also include a program to promote private
veterinary practice, a review of formal training in livestock and veterinary science, and support to
the divestiture process. The production development component would include: (a) support to
extensive cattle production systems, mainly through improved disease control in the western and
northern regions; and (b) dairy development in the central highlands, based on the strengthening of
dairy producers associations and the improvement of milk collection (access tracks, chilling centers).
The project, to be carried out over five years, provides funds for civil works; vehicles, furniture,
equipment and other goods and services; training; technical assistance; and incremental operating
costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 38.6 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$ 20.5 million (53 per cent). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan
are shown in schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement, and the
disbursement schedule are shown in schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and
the status of Bank Group operations in Madagascar are given in schedules C and D, respectively.
A map is also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No 9424 - MAG dated April 18, 1991, is also
attached.
54.    Agreed actions. Assurances obtained during negotiations are as follows: (a) government
would implement the action plan for public sector divestiture, including a moratorium on recruitment;
(b) specific rules would be established to eliminate price distortions created by imports of dairy
products; (c) DEPF would prepare an annual work program and budget for livestock activities in the
public sector, and an annual report on their execution; (d) DEL field services would progressively
withdraw from all curative veterinary activities and non-conipulsory vaccinations and from direct
involvement in the supply and distribution of other inputs, and promote private veterinary practice
and distribution channels; for remaining activities, including compulsory vaccinations, cost recovery
would be introduced; (e) ROMANOR, the agency that would implement the dairy component, would
evolve into a private corporation, with equal representation of government and of farmers
representatives on its Board; subject to the outcome of the planned study, the three ROMANOR dairy
plants would be managed by an independent subsidiary of ROMANOR and transferred to a
specialized producers Union within a maximum of three years after project start; (f) sanitary control
at the borders would be tightened; and (g) government would carry out, in collaboration with donors,
a mid-term evaluation of the project. Conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) legislation
on veterinary medicine would have been enacted; (b) a project account would have been opened, and
an initial deposit in the project account would have been made; (c) ROMANOR would have been
legally established as a private corporation and an implementation agreement would have been signed
between MPAEF and ROMANOR; and (d) all conditions required for the effectiveness of co-
financing contributions would have been met. Conditions of disbursement for investments by dairy
farmers associations, research activities and support to the establishment of private veterinarians
would be the signature of implementation agreements between MPAEF and the relevant agencies.
55.    Benefits. By reducing the role of government in livestock development, the project would
free public resources for other priority tasks. Under an improved incentive framework, the sub-
sector would contribute significantly to import substitution and exports, while increased domestic
consumption would have a positive impact on nutrition. The proposed project would directly benefit



15
a large percentage of livestock producers. The benefits from improved health services and animal
hus,bandry in the extensive cattle production system would result in a gradual improvement in herd
productivity and production; the economic rate of return for this component is estimated between 17
andl 22 per cent. Improved dairy production, collection and marketing would significantly increase
rural income and employment; the internal economic rate of return for this component is estimated
between 13 and 19 per cent.
56.    Environmental impact. By improving forage production, the project would both reduce
pressure on natural rangeland and improve the sustainability of mixed farming systems in highly
populated areas of the country. In areas under extensive cattle production systems, present sanitary
coniditions are such that improved animal health is not expected to result in dramatic cattle population
growth which would be damaging for the enviromnent; rather, the project aims at increasing
productivity from the existing animal population through better herd and pasture management. A
study of the behaviors and motivations behind bush fires is expected to bring better understanding
of ihis major problem. The project would not touch upon areas where biodiversity protection under
the Environment Action Plan (EAP) now under implementation is a major concern.
57.    Risks. A major risk would be the lack of response from the private sector. This will
essentially depend on the effectiveness of the incentive framework. Improving the incentive
framework by introducing market determined prices for dairy products should greatly reduce this
risk. Another risk arises from the weak implementation capacity of the Livestock Ministry. This risk
woould be mitigated by project conditionality to have government take the most important legal and
policy decisions before project start-up, by a sizable technical assistance and training program and
by the transfer of many tasks to non-goverument entities.
58.    Recommendations. I ain satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 22, 1991



16
Schedule A
MADAGAS CA
LIVESTOCK SECT!OR PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Proiect Cost Sumwarv /
000 USS                               X Total
---------------------------          X Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign    Totat           Exchange    Costs
A. Production developwent
1. Extensive Cattte Systems    4492.8   3933.8   8426.7                  49.0       26.3
2. Hightands Dairy Develpmt    7685.3   7356.7  15042.0                  51.0       46.9
Sb-Total                             12178.1  11290.5  23468.6              50.3        73.2
B. Institution Building
1. Strengthening of DEL            1646.8   3019.6   4666.4              66.7       14.5
2. Monitoring/Eval-DEPF/DEL         407.9    518.0    926.0              58.1        2.9
3. Privatization of Vet.Prf         794.8    870.8   1665.6              54.4        5.2
4. Divestiture Program              278.2    233.1    511.2              47.0         1.6
5. Formal Training Review           269.6    571.8    841.4              69.5        2.6
Sub-Total                             3397.3   5213.3   8610.6              62.5        26.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                 15575.5  16503.8  32079.2              51.4       100.0
PhysicaL Contingencies              893.1    890.4   1783.5              49.9        5.6
Price Contingencies                1641.4   3126.7   4768.1              65.6       14.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 18109.9  20520.9  38630.8              53.1       120.4
9 Includes USS 6.4 million of taxes and duties and USS 400,000 for a PPF.
Financina Plan
Local                   Foreiian                Total
------------(US$ million)----------
Government                                                 7.5                     0.1                     7.6
Other Donors                                               1.4                     7.2                     8.6
IDA                                                        6.7                   13.1                    19.8
Farmers contribution                                       2.5                     0.1                     2.6
Total                                                    18.1                    20.5                    38.6



17
Schedule B
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procurement method
----------- US$ thousand -----------------------
Proiect etement                        ICB        LCB       ILS    Other      N.A.    Total
a/
Rehab/expansion of DEL premises                   521 c/                                 521
(447)                                  (447)
Liv. posts, CIRELs, SPELs rehab.                  438 d/   348 e/                        786
(376)    (298)                         (674)
Other buildings rehabilitation                    161 f      Il g1 /                     172
(138)     (10)                         (148)
Vehicles purchase                      3471                          354                3825
(2029)                          (0)              (2029)
Cold storage equip                                 79                                     79
(59)                                   (59)
Field Vet equip (200 sets)              236                                              236
(177)                                            (177)
Vet. laboratory equipment                                   322 b/                       322
(241)                        (241)
Office furniture                                  288                                    288
(216)                                  (216)
Office equipment                        275       286                                    561
(206)    (217)                                   (423)
Veterinary drugs                                            307                          307
(265)                        (265)
Track repair machinery/tools                                        1097                1097
<0)                (0)
Milk processing plants equipment                                     540                 540
<0)                (0)
Seeds processing equip, seeds,                                       338       215       553
demonstration plots                                               (0)    (184)    (184)
Herd book equipment, support to                                      173                 173
ArtificiaL insemination                                           (0)                 (0)
Farmers associations equipment                              564                          564
<200 associations)                                    (483)                         (483)
Documentation for new                                       105                          105
DEL Doc. center                                          (90)                         (90)
Milk collection tracks rehab.                                       3800 h/             3800
(farmers associations)                                              (0)                 <0)
Milk and feed processing/storage                           1264 i/                      1264
from the Liv.Promotion fund                             (850)                         (850)
Severance payment, veterinarians                                              1217      1217
installation grants                                                        (919)    (919)
Systems development, studies,                                       2482 j/             2482
Research & Dev., audit                                          (1645)              (1645)
Fellowships, seminars,                                              2763                2763
study tours                                                      (2459)              (2459)
Consultants                                                         4459                4459
(1306)             (1306)
Incr. operating costs                                                        12124    12124
(6767)   (6767)
PPF Refund                                                                     393       393
(393)    (393)
Total costs                            3982      1773     2921    16006    13949    38631
(2412)   (1453)   (2237)   (5410)   (8263)  (19775)
Notes :  a/ Includes items procured by other cofinanciers following their own rules
b/ Large number of different items
c/ one single contract
d/ 20 different sites
e/ 87 different sites
f/ 12 different sites
g/ ILS : different entity (CEPROVET)
h/ 200 smatt sites - Labor intensive - Liv. Dev. Fund operation
i/ 100 different operations, spread over 5 yr
j/ about 20 contracts
Note : Amounts in parentheses indicate IDA financing



18
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Amount                    Percentage
Category                              (US$ '°°°!              Financed by IDA
Dairy program (highlands)
a. Livestock Promotion Fund
Feed processing/storage equipment          150        80% of total expenditure
Milk collection/processing equipment       600        100% of total expenditure
b. ROMANOR operations
Vehicles and equipment                     800        100% of foreign expenditure
and 85% of local expendit.
Management services                        100        90% of total expenditure
Training and fellowships                   450        100% of total expenditure
Operating costs                           1500        85% of total expenditure
Other project components
Civil works                               1100        85% of total expenditure
Vehicles, Equipment, other goods          2900        100% of foreign expenditure
and 85% of local expendit.
Consultant and studies                    1750        100% of total expenditure
Training and fellowships                  1600        100% of total expenditure
Management, audit, account. serv           250        90% of total expenditure
Staff allowances                           900        On a declining scale j/
Vet.installation grants                    900        90% of total expenditure
Research and Development                   450        90% of total expenditure
Operating costs                           3850        80% of total expenditure
PPF Refund                                 400        Amount due
Unallocated                               2100
Total                       19800
1/ 100% for up to US$ 0.6 million; then 60% up to US$ 0.8 million and 30% thereafter.
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
--------------------------(US$ mittion)------------------
Amual      0.4    1.6    2.4    3.9    4.8    4.7         2.0
Cumutative   0.4    2.0    4.4    8.3   13.1   17.8    19.8
X         2      10      22      42     66      90      100



19
Schedule C
MADAGASCAR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR PROJECT
Time table of key project processing events
(a) Time taken to prepare:          Two and half years
(b) Prepared by:                    Government with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mission:              May 1988
(d) Appraisal mission departure:    January 1991
(e) Negotiations:                   April 2 - 5, 1991
(t) Planned date of effectiveness:  October 1, 1991
(g) List of relevant PCRs
and PPARs:                   Beef Cattle Development Project (PPAR No 1559)
First Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (PPAR No
5403)
Second Village Livestock and Rural Development Project (PCR under
preparation)



20                                           Schedule D
page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
---------------------------------------
January 31, 1991
Amount in US$ Million
Loan or                                                                 (less cancellation)
Credit    Fiscal                                                     -----------------------------
number     Year          Borrower        Purpose                       Bank    IDA (1) Undisbursed
5 loans fully disbursed                                                 32.57
33 credits fully disbursed                                                      471.06
Of which 3 SECALs
Cr.  1691   86          Madagascar       Agricultural Sector Adj.                20.00
Cr.  A016   86          Madagascar       Agric. Sect.Adj. (SFA)                  33.00
Cr.  A007   86          Madagascar       Industrial Asst. (SFA)                   20.00
Cr.  1834   87          Madagascar       Industy & Trade Policy Adj.              16.00
Sub-total                                                               89.00
Cr. 1337   83          Madagascar       R;ce Intensification                     18.00       2.90
Cr. 1433   84          Madagascar       Cotton Development a/                   17.80        0.16
Cr. 1497   84          Madagascar      Urban                                    12.80        5.61
*Cr. 1541   85          Madagascar       Industrial Assistance                   40.00        0.02
Cr. 1589   85          Madagascar       Irrigation Rehabilitation               10.57        7.76
Cr. 1661   86          Madagascar      Accounting & Mgmt. Training              10.30       11.38
Cr. 1694   86          Madagascar      Third Railway                            12.00        4.46
Cr. 1709   86          Madagascar      Second Ag. Institutions                  10.00        3.52
Cr. 1752   87          Madagascar      Port Rehabilitation                      16.00       10.45
Cr. 1787   87          Madagascar      Energy                                   25.00       20.92
Cr. 1804   87          Madagascar      Second Agricultural Cr.                  10.00        2.48
*Cr. A032   87          Madagascar       Ind. & Trade Pol.Adj. (SFA)             67.00        1.04
Cr. 1878   88          Madagascar      Forests Mgt.& Protection                  7.00        4.78
Cr. 1905   88          Madagascar      Seventh Highway                          40.00       38.70
Cr. 1928   88          Madagascar       Ilmenite Mining Eng.                     8.65        6.91
*Cr. 1941   88          Madagascar      Pub.Sec.Adj.(incl. 3 supp.)             129.30       96.53
Cr. 1967   89          Madagascar      Econ.Mgmt.& Social Action                22.00       21.92
Cr. 2042   89          Madagascar      Nat'l Agric. Research                    24.00       28.14
Cr. 2094   90          Madagascar      Education Sect.Reinforc.                 39.00       40.75
Cr. 2104   90          Madagascar      Fin.Sect,&Priv.Ent.                      48.00       49.19
Cr. 2117   90          Madagascar      Antana.Plain Dev.                        30.50       33.09
Cr. 2125   90          Madagascar      Environment    b/                        26.00       28.49
Cr. 2150   90          Madagascar      Agr.Ext.Pilot   b/                        3.68        4.03
Sub-total active projects                                    627.50      419.19
Total less cancellations:                            32.57  1098.56
of which has been repaid                           14.50    13.37
Total now held by Bank and IDA:                      18.07  1085.19 (1)
Amount sold:          6.86
of which repaid    6.86
Total undisbursed :                                   0.00   419.19
-------------------------------------------------------------..--__----------
* SAL, SECAL, Program Loan
a/ Includes Special Fund
b/ Not yet signed
(1) Sum of Total now held by IDA and Total Undisbursed is higher than Total Outstanding
because of depreciation of the US$.



21
Schedule D
g-ate  2
Run Tiae: 02l2819 at 12.24.33
Status Of Bank Group Operations In MADAGASCAR
PFDBR258 - List of Closed SALs and Secals
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                           Undis-  Closing
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                            Purpose                       Bank           IDA     bursed   Date
C15410-MAE  1985    MADAGASCAR                          IND.SECTOR LOAN Il                        40.00         .02  09/30/IOiR)
CA0160-MAÎ  1986    MADAGASCAR                          A6RI.SECTOR ADJUSJ.C                      33.00         .00  06130/90(R)
C16910-MA6  1986    MADAGASCAR                          A6RI.SECTOR ADJUST.C                      20.00         .00  06/30/90(R)
CAQ0Q7-NA6  1986    MADA6ASCAR                          IND.SECTOR LOAN Il                        20.00         .00  09/30/90(R)
C18340-MAG  1987    MADAGASCAR                          IND.& TRADE POLICY                        16.00         .00  03/31/91(R)
C19411-MA6  1989    MADA6ASCAR                          PUBLIC SEC.ADJ                              1.40        .00  12/31/90
C19412-MAE  1990    MADAGASCAR                          PUBLIC SEC.ADJ                              1.2U         .00  01/21/91R)
Total MADA6ASCAR
131.60         .02



22
Schedule D
Page 3
MADAGASCAR
Livestock Sector Proiect
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of January 31, 1991)
Year      Oblizor         !eTyeof Business             Loan         Equity         Total
1990      FIARO           Development Finance           -            0.28          0.28
1980      Bata Shoes      Footwear                      1.25         -              1.25
1986      COTONA          Textiles                     10.88         0.18          11.06
1984      Nossi-Be        Food and Food Processing      6.94         0.25          7.19
1977      Sotema          Textiles                     14.73         0.30          15.03
Total Gross Commitments                              33.80         1.01          34.81
Less: Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments,
Sales, Exchange Adjustments                      14.10                      14.10
Total Commitments now held by IFC                     19.70         1.01          20.71
Total Undisbursed                                     0.38          0.00          0.38
Total Disbursed                                       19.32         1.01          20.33



23
MADAGASCAR
MADAGASCAR                                          PMDAGASCAR - EM*lMIC IMDIrATORS             Annexi
PAGE 1 0F 3
Mid- 1989 Poputation <mils.)          il
1989 Per Capita GdP in US$:         230
A. Shares of Gross Daeietic Procirt                   B. Growth Rates(% per ar.mn)
(f ram current price data)                        <f ras canatant price data)
1965    1973    1980    1987    1988    1989             1965-73 1973-80 1980-88   1988    1989
Gross Doeestic Produict m.p.       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   ¶00.0                3.6      1.2     0.4      3.8     4.9
Net Indirect Taxes                9.6    10.8    11.2    12.6    11.1    10.1..                           .
Agriculture                          .. 23.9    26.7    29.3    29.3    28.2                    .. -0.4        2.2      2.4'   5.5'
Inda.stry                           -. 16.0    14.3    12.6    12.7    13.0                     ..    1.6      0.0     1.3      1.5
(of wh,ich Marufacturring>           .       ..       .    11.2    11.0    11.4                 .        ..      ..   -0.1      1.2
Services                             .. 49.3'  47.8'   45.6    47.0    48.7                     ..     1.8-   -0.6     5.4      5.5
Resource Bat.ance                   -6.8    -4.6   -16.4    -4.6    -6.5    -5.2                   .        .
Exports of GNFS                   13.2    14.2    13.3    16.4    15.9    17.3               -14       19     -2.2    -5.0-   23.8'
InMrts of GNFS                   20.0    18.9    29.7    21.0    22.4    22.5                 0.6     2.7    -6.0    -0.9       2.8
Total. Experditures                106.8   104.6   116.4   104.6   106.5   105.2                3.4      1.5    -0.9     4.3      1.8
Totat. CoeisaJçtian              100.3    95.5   101.4    94.6    93.5    92.0                3.4      1.3    -0.8     3.4      1.3
Private Coemu1ptioni           84.3    83.3    89.3    85.6    85.6    84.0                 3.4     1.1    -0.9      4.2      0.6
General. 3overr   t16.0    12.2    12.1                   9.0     7.9      8.1              3.3     4.3      0.2    -4.2      8.2
Grogs Daeestic Irvestment         6.5      9.1    15.0    10.0    13.0    13.2                4.2     3.2    -1.4    12.5       6.5
Fixed Investment                   ..    8.4    14.4        .        .       .                 .       .
Changes in Stocks                  ..    0.7     0.6        .        .       .                 .       .
Grass Done~stic Saving              -0.3     4.5    -1.4      5.4      6.5     8.0                ..       .        . -3.2    35.7
Net Factor !nccme                 -3.3    -1.8    -1.1    -6.7    -6.7    -7.8                   .        .
Net Current Transfers              0.0    -1.4    -05       1.3      1.5     1.9                 .        .
Gross Matioamal  Saving             -3.6     1.3    -3.1      0.7      2.2     3.0                .         .      -
in bi[L.ia,s of LCJs               1965    1973    1980    1987    1988    1989
<at camstant 1987 prices)            --        -       --     --        ..     --
Gross Ome~stic Prockàt            2109    2648    2927    2770    2876    3017                3.6      1.2     0.4      3.8     4.9
Capacity ta Irrport               640      746      516     453      409     456              1.4    -4.7      0.0    -9.8    11.5
Terns of Trade Adjustment          126     253      -69       O      -22     -77                 .        .
Gross Donestic Ircw             .2235    2901    2858    2770    2854    2940                 4.0    -0.3      0.7      3.0-    3.0-
Grass National Prod.rt            2038    2598    2896    2583    2685    2788                3.7      1.3    -0.4      3.9     3.8
Grass Natlional Incame            2164    2852    2827    2583    2663    2711                4.1    -0.1      0.0      3.1     1.8
-----    <---  1987 = 100) --------                    ----Inftation Rates(% p.a.)-----
C. Price indices                    1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989             1965-73 1973-80 1980-88   1988    1989
CoeEuïer Pri,ces (IFS 64>           30.5    76.0    87.0   100.0   126.8         ..3.4                  9.0    17.5    26.8
MVaotesal.e Prices <IFS 63>             .       .        .       .        .       ...                       .       .        .       -
lnfplicit CDP Deflator             29.2'   71.3'  81.4'  100.0'  122.4'  134.9'                 4.0'   10.0'   18.1'   22.4'   10.2
lfpl.icit Experditures Defi.       28.5    69.3    77.2   100.0   124.1   139.2                 3.9    11.3    18.4    24.1    12.2
D. Other Irdicatars:              1965-73 1973-80 1980-89
Growth Rates(% p.a.>:
Population                         2.3     2.7      2.8
Labor Farce                        2.0     2.2      2.0
Grass Matt. Ircome p.c.            1.7    -2.8    -2.5
Private Coesurption p.c.           1.0    -1.6    -3.3
lnport El.asticity:
Iffports (G+NFS) I GDP<nfp>       0.2      2.3    -6.1
Margiral. Savirgs Rates:
Grass Natioxul. Savirg            19.4 -1742.5   -90.7
Gross Domestic Savinig            22.6  1552.6  -47443
ICO <period averages):
Share of Total.                     1965    1973    1920    1988    1989
Labor Farce in:---                             --       -       --
A,gri-ul.tu.re                    85.1    82.8    80.9         -
Irdstry                           4.3      5.2      6.0
Services                          10.5    12.0   'i3.2
Total.                           100.0   100.0   1L'0.0   100.0      100
IEC 11/06/9r0



24
MACAG.ASOAR
SWIASCAR - EOtC  INAI:T0ORS
PAOE 2 OF 3
Volune Irdex                           Value at ojrrmnt Prices (nillioes USS)
.. - - -- - - -- - -  -                -------------------------_--_ -_--- -- --
E. merchardise EPorts              1980    19e5    1986    1987     1988    19139   1982    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
-   -- - -- -    -_  -- -- -- -   -- ---    -- - -   ------- . -- - -   -- - -   ---   --     -- --   -------    -- - -   -----... ... -    -- - -     ---_.....-__-
X.BEV.MFFEE                       134.2    86.3    98.1   100.0    91.0   129.7    214        104     148       98      76      76
X.F=tD Y                           61.7   163.1   159.0  100.0   181.5   544.5         51      36      36       10      16      32
X.FWO.2                            35.5    54.5    70.1   100.0    49.8    51.6        19      44      50       80      45      42
Mai.ufac-tures                                 ..
Resi.l                                .        ..53                                            98      95      1Z3     143     163
Total ExP rts FOS                  85.5    90.1    95.3   100.0-   59.     118.,    437       2&      329     311      280     313
F. Merchardise Inmorts
Food                               95.8   115.1  108.2  100.0    31.4    76.1          ..    50        52      49       17      39
Fuel ard erergy                    78.1   105.6   121.5  100.0   131.7   101.8         ..    85        59      55       66      51
Oth. crmsuner go9        s        215.1   114.0   1GB.6   100.0    95.7  106.0          ..    52       56       59      60      65
Other intenlad gccds              315.5    98.7    97.2   100.0   80.8    76.0          ..   109      119      114      98      91
Capital   =s                      219.3   128.5   119.7  100.0  123.9   120.8    176           99     109      105     138     135
Total Irports CIF                 257.1   109.0   106.9  100.0   96.1    96.9    59f          395     395     382      379     381
C. >terchardise Terms of Trade     1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1939
Merch. Exports Price !ruiex       164.3   100.6   111.0   100.0   100.4   85.2
Merch. In  rts Price lrdex         60.9    94.9    96.7  100.0   103.2   102.9
Merch. Tenm  of Trade             269.9   106.1   114.8  100.0    97.2        2.8
USS milUico tat current prices):
H. Sala-ce of Payrents             1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1999
Expor:s of Goods & NFS              516     350      398     422     413     441
Merchardise (F08)                 436     291      323     327     284     313
Nor-Factor Services                79      59       75      96     118      128
l prts of G   s & MFS              1075     503     536      542     569     572
Merchardise (FC6)                 764     336      331     315     319      314
NMon-Factor Services              311     167      205     226     250      257
Resource Balarce                   -559    -153    -138    -119    -166    -131
Net Factor Irc e                    -44    -129    -155    -175    -179    -199
(interest per ORS)                 57      72       78     118      90      128
Net Current Trarsfers               .2S      24       21      34      38       47
(workers remittarces)               0       5        4       3       3       3
Curr A/C Bal Sefore Off. Grants  -623    -258    -273    -260    -307    -283
Net Officiai Transfers             67      74      132     120     158      155
Curr A/C Bal After Off. Grants   -557    -184    -141    -140    -149    -123
Lcrq-Term CapitaL [nflow            375     150      223     240     394     219
Oirec« UivesUent                    ..       ..      ..      ..       ..      6
Net Lt Lcars (DRS data)           345     125      152     246     157      101
Other LT Inflow (Net)              30      26       71      -5     237      111
Total Other .tems (net)             325       9      -27     -58    -174      *54
Net Short Tern Capitat            398       -1     -31     -47     *42      *61
Capital FI,.s N.E.I.                0       a        0       0       o        o
Errors ad Omissionu               -73       10       4     -11    -132        6
Claiges in Met Reser s             -143       24     -55     -42  *71         -37
Net Credit fron the 11F           42       13      22      39     -41    ..2
Other Reserves Oeaures           -185       10     -78     -81      -30      -8
As Share of GDP:
Rescrce Balance                 -13.8    -5.3    -4.2    -4.6    -6.6    -5.1
Interest Payrents                 1.4     2.5     2.4      4.5     3.6     5.1
CD.rrent Account gatace         -15.4    -8.9    -8.3   -10.0   -12.3   -11.1
mornircjm Item,:
Reserves excl. Gold (mil. US$)        9      48      115     185     224    ;245
Reserves iril. Gold (mil. USS)        9      48      115     185     224      245
Official X-Rate (LOJs/USS)       211.28  662.48  676.34 1069.21 1407.11 1603.44
Irnfx Real Eff. X-R Base 1980   100.00   91.62   86.51   58.96   51.31   48.97
G0P (mnilins of cLrrent JSS)    4042    2i93    3296    2590    2501    2539
iEC 11/06/90



25
MDAGASCAR
MADAGASCAJZ
MADAGASCAR - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
PA 3 OF 3
Share of CDP t                                          Growth Rates
Goverrenis  frience                1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989            1980-85   1986    1987    1988    1989
Current Receipts                   15.1    13.1    12.6    15.2    13.5    12.5              17.7    11.4    50.0    12.6       7.2
Current E)xpenditures              16.6    11.1    10.7    11.6    10.0    10.4               9.3    11.8    35.3      9.1    20.1
Current Btrget Batance             -1.6     2.0      1.9     3.6     3.5      2.1               ..       ..
Capitat Receipts                    0.0     1.1      0.9     1.4     1.9      2.7                 .   -1.9    80.4    82.0    57.7
Capital Expenditures               11.3     7.0      6.3     8.3     8.7     9.2              7.9      4.6    63.3    33.4    22.5
Overall Deficit                   -12.8    -3.8    -3.4    -3.3    -3.3    -4.4                  ..      ..
Officiat Capitat Grants             5.9     4.1      4.0     5.7     6.2      6.8            11.1    12.9    79.6    38.2    26.7
Externat Eorrowirn  (net)           5.6     2.5      2.3     3.6     3.8      4.6                ..      ..
Domestic Man-Bank Borrowirg         0.1     0.2      0.2     0.3     0.2      0.2                ..    9.4   114.3      1.3    31.6
Domestic Ebnk Financirn             9.2     1.1      0.8    -0.4    -0.6    -0.7            -21.2   -14.8
Net Disbursements (US$ mittions)          Debt Outstardirs & Disbursed (USS mittions)
J. External Capitat Flows, Debt    ---------------------------------------------    -------------------------------------------
and Debt Burden Ratios          1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Pubtic & Ptbticty Guar. LT          345     125      152     246     157      101     926    2161    2651    3308    3290    3345
Officiat Creditors                214     131      169     257      167     117     579    1796    2271    2902    2945    3044
:lultiLaterat                    46      71      128     159     121       92     187     478      634     851     931    1023
of ihich IBRD                   1      -1       -1      -2      -2       -3      30      28       31      36      30       27
of hhich IDA                   25      57       93      91      79       70     122     316     422      550     607      670
8ilateral                       168      59       42      98      46       25     392    1318    1637    2051    2014    2021
Private Creditors                 131       -6     -17     -12      -10     -16     347     365      380     406      345     300
S&çptiers              -         72      14       -2       1      -4       -6     180     120      132     121      108      90
Firemaiat Markets                59     -20      -15     -11     -10      -10     144     226      217     228      178     150
Private Non-guranteed                 O       O        O       O        O       O       O        O       O       O        °       O
Total LT                            345     125      152     246      157     101     926    2161    2651    3308    3290    3345
IMF Credit                           68      -7       -2       3     -36      -20      87     184      203     238     190      165
Net Short-Tern Capitat              398       -1     -31     -47     -42      -61     244     115      156     182      158      97
Total inct. IMF & Net ST            811     117      120     201      79       21    1257    2460    3009    3728    3638    3607
Bark and IDA Ratios                1980    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Share of Total Lcrq-Term DCD
1. IB>D as X of Total              3.22    1.29    1.18    1.07    0.92    0.82
2. IDA as % of Total              13.17   14.61   15.93   16.63   18.44   20.03
3. 19IBRDDA as X of Total         16.38   15.89   17.11   17.70   19.36   20.85
Share of Lr Debt Service
1. IBRD as X of Total              4.87    3.36    3.37    2.66    3.04    2.62
2. IDA as X of Total               1.91    3.16    4.42    4.03    4.63    4.07
3. IBRD+IDA% as X of Total         6.78    6.52    7.79    6.69    7.67    6.69
DOD-to-Exports Ratios
1. LOEg-Teim Debt/Exports        178.49  602.20  650.31  760.21  784.28  723.05
2. IMF Credit/Exports             16.77   51.33   49.85   54.79   45.37   35.74
3. Short-T«1nr Debt/Exports       47.06   32.08   38.18   41.83   37.60   20.97
4. LTIIMF+ST DoD/Exports         242.31  685.61  738.34  856.83  867.25  779.76
DOD-to-GDP Ratios
1. Laor-Term Debt/GDP             22.91   74.69   80.43  127.70  131.52  131.75
2. IMF Credit/GDP                  2.15    6.37    6.17    9.20    7.61    6.51
3. Short-Term Debt/GDP             6.04    3.98    4.72    7.03    6.31    3.82
4. LT+IMF+5,T DD/GDP              31.10   85.03   91.32  143.93  145.43  142.09
Debt Service /Experts
1. Ptblic &, Guranteed LT         11.08   27.34   25.52   33.67   34.52   37.18
2. Private Nrt-guranteed LT        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
3. Total Lcng-Term Debt Service  11.08   27.34   25.52   33.67   34.52   37.18
4. INF RepLrchases+Serv. Chgs.    0.66   13.54   16.44   12.46   14.04   14.03
5. Interest cnly on ST Debt        5.49    1.98    1.40    0.80    0.29    0.76
6. Total (LT+IMF+ST Int.)         17.23   42.86   43.35   46.93   48.85   51.97
IEC 11/06/90



IBRD 20035R
}2                                                                                                                             -'                                 12-
.-,,Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                  ` s+
Rovurd rood5                                                                                        "
g.0jto  -osdrondes
AB-weother *oods                                                                                   f
R*,outo s eessilsles en' toute sososo                                      NOSYE*  &            ,s iAn,b,Iobef     Vohinr.
Non-permafnent ronde                                                               4-'         , L4-'oinrn
ARoutes soi$onflWres                                                        HeII-v,11e0
Cbes,o, de f,m
Fheves et rie'ores                                                         `                    ANTSIRANANA
Akrports                                                                                  -
Nationol cepitol                                                                                                    oSmb
*)    Cvptah gEtet                                    , h   n ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B;0Iouo0nono,, 
3      t       ho     , f - lie. éo fl aitoor                             ' Anth hy0          ~                 4+Ando po `
-   o,tony Io~nof<r,tienr d- X  uAnt;alaho
bSodesFotny-                                                                                        r.0*          i
_    _ loernoti,noo  bootndories                              -v nornn,°                                            't,
,n,ites desEtats =e                                 -  i                                                  4-,LMnfsnutetro
-                MahoitJtnljtctk                    ,pp t ~~~~~Berge       Mnb,tso            !
W ~ ~~~                              ~~~~~~~~~ -  So !pW                                                                                         I 3eg "5 -* ftaditr  
J~~~~~~~ Moîonooy                   Morop>mopy                       j,$          l>Mnnr
I                     Aptbotoboen j0y ~    >'          :->     
-16-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
>    / M  A H A J A-, N 'G      tR         `  `     SI' 
Moo.-tononot                                        SOAMASINA» -    OORAHA
-o~~~~
/            8,           0  +        i   `  A~~~~~~~nrd>olre0oO        ;-, +:A,bndiftotro
k tAOdç,onen    t'    :Atskoontno
Manrrn  jJ      k ~orofetobe        p>   _b tondraz i
\  _Anscl o   fANrANANARIVX                            X,,.,
Y                                  .-e- ,Arn o drotr,mo t   P
t~ ~ ~~ 0rdyS                   MitOoio                    MoromangoonddJd  A Ynh,brnon
20'                                                                                                                                         20-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'An
k            '<     S.              m_~~~~~~"t  Sorouinondrkono   g  Andr9rosinn          {oofnr
Sein Tu,'b.hro-TsiribibA mbvtOI,f> 3sih                         Iosifra     Anosrheio
M;odn                  \ Mrob  ,M,onod      ''"      ' Antsirr bet *<  .-  "'   *Mohonoro20
4-,                                                (F^%   e <, ontor o.  ;
:   \   o<0    fmboronondroh°nr    ÂA bOsiTra            ZzNo5yVotiko
T       0 L  A Rbohmohsoo  |
M-njo -                    ,                                                  nanjary
PN        /-                      2 .         ~~~~~~~Fîonar9ntsoa+-,
r                             ~~      ~~~~~ Monombe&b~4onoodo0o   ,rin.h 'Y">                  _           g    mbio
-~~~~~ ~~Beyrh.                                 bmolooo
J        ANAR           OA         0lkong
+         j            hs                               Monokoro
Ankozoobo .,~                                      ? -'r>\o4Vohrpeno  IltOMSTESS o   50      100    150    200
'              s X<vokoîohok  <'         |\        " _YS norrozOe    f Forofongono         MLtES O           50          O0S
JToliar        kj                                Be;rao                  f
Toliory8_~~~~~ \_, c              'S r            O          ,Vongonktdrono 
----' - Sud                   ~~~~Mid.tgy 
O <?8etioky-SuI . ` , y s                                                    ZA .  lANZANIA
eBt..ky - Suc                     Al[tt
2J    ntptnuuooeuttuz,tsui              k                 -                "                                                     A"''-'           COMOROS
rWn u `t 000O'Ol , p-01                 I      BekilyO            e                                                  ZAMBA 1      \ WI
-tses 05not cot, tod e    k                                                             .  &-O-
or t Itt,el t5Sn, Th  Otuet§ùf              4"                                                                      I +si     fJZ~ 
CorPorotott fh, 'kueonn,otson     AmponihyO    `          k                                                                   | ÙZIMBABWE
unes od t1 Soo,drlsuo shonns                                 >                    i                                  IBBW5                    Antônonorivo3
-nh udnttmt tn4                                         A        ry y-                              
ou IuPt su rbozdt3 00500 ordè   '-e               ,         \     nodsors,4 O;                                       j_ S                    MADAGASCAR
!    OSOtrnatOslt F05050 C_                                                  - -rfiuologn ro                                  -
on>Snnl,O ono/Xmtrthiasatl -1,                           -\        --Aekovontbe                                       iSOUTH         -
-'s-AFR I C'~Af ILAND



