Document .o
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4545-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 240 MILLION
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION
April 30, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUTRRENCY EQUWVALENTS
Average
Calendar 1985     January, 1987
Currency Unit      =        Dirhams (DH)
1 Dirham (DH)      =        US$ 0.09938         0.116
1 US Dollar (US$)  =        DH 10.0625          8.57
FLSCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD             : Board of Directors
BRPM           : Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
CDG             : Caisse de Dep6ts et de Gestion
CDM             : Charbonnages du Maroc
CEO             : Chief Executive Officer
CIPEP           : Comite Interministeriel pour les Enterprises Publiques et
des Participations
COMANAV         : Compagnie Marocaine de Navigation
COTEF           : Compagnie de Textile de Fez
CT             : Centres de Travaux
CTM/LN          : Compagnie de Transport au Maroc/Lignes Nationales
DEPP            : Departement des Enterprises Publiques et des Participations
EPIC            : Etablissement Publics Industriel et Commerciaux
ITPA           :  Industrial Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
LRMC            : Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS             : Management Information System
OCP             : Office Cherifien des Phosphates
ODI             : Office pour le D6veloppement Industriel
ONAREP          : Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
ONCF            : Office National des Chemins de Fer
ONE             : Office National de l'Electricite
ONEP            : Office National de l'Eau Potable
ORMVA           : Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole
PERL            : Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan
PE(s)           : Public Enterprise(s)
PPF             : Project Preparation Facility
RAM             : Royal Air Maroc
SAMIR           : Societe Anonyme Marocaine de l'Industrie du Raffinage
SCP             : Societe Cherifien du Petrole
SA             : Societe Anonyme
SNI            : Societe Nationale d'Investissements
SNPP            : Societ6 Nationale des Produits Petroliers



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION LOAN
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Sunmmary  ..........................*.......  i - ii
PART I.   THE ECONOMY   ........................
PART II.  THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR  .............................  10
(a)  Organization of the PE Sector  .............10
(b)  Government Management of the PE Sector    ...........  11
(c)  Rationale for PE Adjustment  .........................  11
(d)  Financial Situation of the PE Sector              ..... ..  12
(e)  Public Enterprise Problems and Development Issues  ...  13
PART III. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION PROGRAM  ...  14
A.   ORIGINS  .*..........#..  o  ...14
B.   THE BANK'S ROLE  ..15
C.   PRINCIPLES# OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE   ...................   15
D.   POLICIES AND MEASURES TO FOSTER FINANCIAL AUTONOMY,
ACCOUNTABILITY, AND COMPETITION  .............16
(a)  Reform of PE Financing  ............17
(b)  Reform of Pricing Policies  ..........19
(c)  Investment Planning and Selection  .........21
(d)  Government Arrears to PE Sector  ........21
E.   INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS TO FOSTER ADMINISTRATIVE AND
MANAGERIAL AUTONOMY AND EFFICIENCY  ................  23
(a)  Rationalizing Government/PE Relations  ...............  24
(b)  Improvement of PE Management Information Systems  ....  26
(c) Improvement of General Accounting and Auditing
Principles and Practices   ....27
F.   POLICIES AND MEASURES TO RATIONALIZE THE ROLE OF THE
STATE IN THE ECONOMY  .......................28
(a)  Inventory of the State Portfolio of PEs  .............  28
(b)  Restructuring Studies  ..............29
(c) Disengagement of the State from Productive
Economic Activities                 .....                 29
(d)  Restructuring Programs for Selected PEs  .............  30
G.   PERL JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ..........32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorztin.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
PART V.   THE BANK LOAN            ........................   34
(a) Disbursement  ........*. **............   34
(b)  Procurement  ............................... ***..  35
(c)  Monitoring and Tranche Release  ...........*...........  35
PART VI.  OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO  ...................  36
PART VII. RECOMMENDATION  ..........******* ................. .....  38
ANNEXES
Annex I       Country Data  ............39
Annex II      Status of Bank Operations  ...........................   42
Annex III     Supplemental Loan Data Sheet                               43
Annex IV      Government Statement of Sector Development Policy          45
Attachment I - Rehabilitation of the Financial
Structure of the PEs                             49
Attachment II - Promoting Efficiency and
Autonomy in PEs....                                     55
Attachment III - Rationalization of the
Role of the State in the PE Sett o r                    59
Anrex V       Action Timetable for Medium-Term Sector Adjustments        63
Annex VI      Technical Assistance and Training ....................   69
MAP OF MOROCCO



MOROCCO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION LOAN
Loan S_ry
Borrower:         Kingdom of Morocco
Beneficiary:      Treasury and selected Public Enterprises
Amount:           US$240 million equivalent
Terms:            20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Description:      The  loan will  support  the first phase  of a  program  to
rationalize Moroccan public enterprises (PEs).
Its principal objective  ia to  improve  the efficiency of
public enterprises in Morocco through:
(i) promoting their financial autonomy and accountability by
(a) restructuring PE finances through the elimination of
government transfers, except for equity contributions, and a
greater reliance on internal and commercial sources of
financing, (b) adjusting output prices to match market
values,   and   send   correct   signals   to   consumers,
(c) eliminating existing arrears and preventing their
recurrence, and (d) improving the planning, evaluation and
monitoring of investments;
(ii) enhancing managerial autonomy and accountability of PEs
through: (a) delineating the relationship between the
Government and the enterprises, (b) developing a competitive
environment, with effective government monitoring of PE
performance,   and   (c)   introducing   modern   management
information systems and improved accounting and auditing
principles and practices; and
(iii) rationalizing the role of the State in the economy
through  the  development of  the strategies,  programs  and
instruments to divest the State of uneconomic enterprises
and of activities which could be handled more effectively by
the private sector.



- ii -
In addition to policy reforms in the above areas aimed at
changing the nature and extent of Government interventions
in the economy, the loan will support the implementation of
restructuring programs in six selected major PEs operating
in the power, water, railways and petroleum refining and
distribution sectors, and the preparation of restructuring
studies for PEs operating in the mining, sugar refining and
transportation sectors. The risks of the program relate to
the possibility of further deterioration in Morocco's public
finances which could lead to the re-emergence of arrears to
PEs, and difficulties in balancing the length and rigor of
the reforms.
Financing and
Disbursements:    In accordance with its twin objectives of supporting general
policy reforms and enterprise restructuring, the loan will
finance  general   imports  and   imports   by   six   public
enterprises,   each  in  amounts  of  US$117  million.    In
addition, US$6 million would (a) refinance a PPF for up to
US$1.25 million for the initiation of key studies included
in the project; and (b) be available to finance Technical
Assistance related to the PE reform process. Disbursements
against general and enterprise imports will be made in two
tranches of US$70 and US$47 million (general imports) and
uS$50 and US$67 million (enterprise imports).
Disbursement Estimates:                         FY88          m9
- US$ million -
Annual                        123           117
Cumulative                    123           240
Map:               IBRD 19858 R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$240 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION
1       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to  the  Treasury  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  for  the  equivalent  of
US$240.0 million, to support the first phase of a program to rationalize
Moroccan public enterprises (PEs). The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMfY
2.       The  following  section  reflects  the  findings  of economic updating
missions that visited Morocco at various times to prepare a paper, entitled
"Morocco: Issues for a Medium-term Structural Adjustment Program", for
presentation to a meeting of the Consultative Group for Morocco in Paris on
March 12-13, 1987. Data and analysis have been updated to reflect the recent
mission which reviewed the progress on policy adjustment loans and analysed
Public Resource Mobilization (report in preparation). Country data are given
in Annex I.
Intrducto
3.       During  nearly  two  decades  after  Independence  in  1956,  Morocco
followed  relatively  conservative  economic  policies.   Cautious  external
borrowings supplemented a weak savings effort to permit a slow rise in
investment, so that the economy grew only at about 4 percent per annum.
Primary products - principally phosphates - accounted for 90 percent of
merchandise  exports.   During  the  mid-1970s, after  a  sudden  increase  in
phosphate prices, Morocco launched an ambitious public investment program
which boosted GDP growth to 7.5 percent annually during the period 1973-77.
The phosphate boom, however, began subsiding in mid-1975.   Meanwhile,  the
petroleum import bill, which had quadrupled in 1974, continued to place
considerable pressure on the balance of payments, and the current account
deficit reached 16.5 percent of GDP in 1977. Domestically, the large public
investment program and increased defense expenditures in the Western Sahara
caused -he treasury deficit to rise to 15.8 percent of GDP in 1977. Morocco
resorted to considerable foreign borrowings to finance these deficits.



4.       To  redress  the  rapidly  deteriorating  financial  situation,  the
Moroccan Government introduced a three-year stabilization program in 1978
centered on reductions in public sector outlays and stricter import controls.
These reforms were only partially successful. They did little to stimulate
exports.   The exchange  rate was kept overvalued and trade barriers  were
raised.   The  measures  did  not adequately  tackle  the excessive budgetary
exposure and made inadequate attempts to increase the efficiency of resource
use.   The  agricultural  sector  failed  to  grow,  while  value-added  in
manufacturing declined. Meanwhile, public investment was not restrained; the
number of costly, poorly-targeted social programs was expanded and investment
in infrastructure was undertaken,  often well ahead of need.   Efforts  to
stabilize the economy were compromised by severe external shocks - most
notably the 1979 oil price increase, the rise in international interest rates,
the international recession which reduced phosphate earnings and workers'
remittances, and a prolonged drought. Continued internal pressure to provide
social services and affordable basic foodstuffs to a rapidly growing
population put considerable strains on a budget already stretched by the need
to finance expenditures in the Western Sahara. The 1981-85 Development Plan
aimed  at  an  ambitious  6.5  percent  per  annum  growth  rate  in  GDP.
Notwithstanding the difficulties confronting the economy, Morocco did not
appear willing to introduce a comprehensive program of policy measures which
could have confronted the economic crisis. The shortcomings in the adjustment
performance caused the IMF to convert a three-year Extended Fund Facility into
a one-year Stand-By Arrangement in 1982 ana prevented the Bank from proceeding
with a Structural Adjustment Loan at that time.
Reeent Economic
5.       By 1983 it had become clear that the Government's room to maneuver
was becoming very restricted by debt service payment requirements.  In 1982
external public long-term debt (excluding military debt) had risen to about
two-thirds of GDP and 235 percent of exports of goods and services, while the
debt service  ratio reached  35 percent.   Morocco was confronted with  the
prospect of a very large external payments gap for 1983.  With exchange
reserves virtually depleted and debt service rising, the Government imposed
emergency import controls and budgetary cutbacks in early 1983. In November
1983 the Government entered into an 18-month standby arrangement with the IMF
(SDR 300 million, or 98 percent of quota) supporting a stabilization program
which included fiscal and credit restraints and a flexible exchange rate
policy. Shortly thereafter, official creditors agreed to reschedule external
debt interest and principal payments coming due between September 1, 1983 and
December 1984, as well as arrears as of August 31, 1983. Commercial bank
creditors agreed in principle to provide comparable relief on amortization.
The total amount of debt relief obtained in 1983-84 under these agreements was
estimated at more than US$2 billion (including US$575 million of relief on
military debt).   In November 1983, a Donors' meeting spensored by the IMF,
generated pledges of atout US$500 million of exceptional balance-of-payments
assistance for 1983-84. To meet its fiscal targets the Government restricted
public service recruitment and salary increases, raised the prices of



electricity, water, petroleum products and subsidized foodstuffs (by between
17 percent and 60 percent), and cut canital outlays by one third. At the same
time, it began a significant adjustment effort supported by the Bank program,
including the January 1984 ITPA I loan (No. P-3707-MOR), to improve its
balance of payments situation with comprebensive measures to restructure its
trade regime. This included a 102 reduction in the special import tax as part
of a general program to reduce overall import taxation, an easing of
quantitative restrictions, flexible management of the exchange rate, and a
reduction in export licensing. Following a Financial Sector Study conducted
by the Bank in 1984 (No. 4957-MOR), the Government extended these reforms to
the Financial Sector with the objective of raising domestic resources and
improving resource allocation. Greater flexibility was introduced in setting
interest rates, measures were designed to increase competition among banks,
and taxation reforms to benefit the financial sector were implemented.
6.       As  a  result  of  the  policies  adopted  since  1983,  macroeconomic
balances improved. The economy's resource gap shrank from 13 percent of GDP
in 1982 to 7 percent in 1985 and fell further to 4.1 percent in 1986 (at
constant 1980 prices). This was achieved through a significant decline in the
GDP share of consumption and investment relative to their high levels earlier
in the 1980s. Import growth was restrained by appropriate demand management
and by the depreciation of the Dirham, while the share of exports and gross
domestic savings increased substantially. The Government budget deficit was
reduced from 12.3 percent of GDP in 1982 to about 10.4 percent it 1985 on a
commitment basis, before taking into account the impact of external debt
rescheduling on interest payments.  In 1986 it fell to 6.2 percent of GDP,
although the improvement stemmed chiefly from a sharp reduction in investment
outlays, there was also a significant slowing down in the rate of growth of
current expenditures. As was to be expected, the rate of GDP growth has been
low (a little over 2 percent per annum), reflecting the impact of
stabilization policies on consumption and investment de-and, along with the
effect of a prolonged drought on agricultural sector incomes in both 1983 and
1984. A good harvest has helped boost the growth rate to about 4.3 percent in
1985 and an estimated 5.7% in 1986.
7.       The current account of the balance of payments improved considerably,
reflecting both the better resource balance of the economy and the impact of
the debt relief obtained by Morocco from its official creditors on interest
and military debt service payments. In 1983, the external current account
deficit was reduced by half, from US$1.9 billion and 12.7 percent of GDP in
1982 to US$873 million and 6.6 percent of GDP. The balance subsequently
worsened in 1984, particularly in relation to GDP, but still remained under
US$1 billion. In both 1983 and 1984, about half of the roughly US$1 billion
improvement in the current account compared to 1982 was attributable to debt
relief.L'  The net inflow of public medium and long-term capital (including
grants) has declined sharply from about US$1.5 billion in 1982 to an average
U/ Ovcr US$200 million in interest payments were rescheduled in each of the
two years.  In addition, the current account balance benefitted  from
military debt relief in the amount of US$325 million in 1983 and
US$25 million in 1984.



of only US$600 million during 1983-1984.   In 1985,  the net inflow fell to
about US$400 million, despite an exceptional US$300 million grant from Saudi
Arabia.  In 1986, the net inflow declined further to about US$275 million.
These inflows had to be supplemented by continued debt relief along the lines
of the 1983-84 debt rescheduling and demand management policies, to keep
import growth under control.
8.       A stand-by arrangement with the IMF was approved on September 13,
1985. A formal debt rescheduling through the Paris Club covering maturities
from September 1985 to February 1987 was agreed on September 17, 1985.
Ninety-five percent of the total debt due were rescheduled along lines similar
to those obtained under the 1983-84 debt relief arrangement.   The 1983-84
rescheduling agreement between Morocco and the commercial banks was signed,
after long delays, on October 21, 1985.  As a result of slippages in meeting
performance   criteria,   howeve-,   the   IMF  stand-by   arrangement   became
inoperative.   The Government ihas since recognized that stronger corrective
measures are needed to keep the stabilization program on course including, in
particular, restraining current expenditures and reducing subsidies on
foodstuffs and public services. A new standby for the period December 1986 to
February 1988 has been negotiated and is now in effect. Additional external
resources have been mobilized for 1987/88 as a result of recent agreements
reached with commercial banks and Paris Club creditors. The implementation of
a new stabilization program attendant on gains from the Bank-supported program
of sectoral adjustment and favorable external developments should enable
Morocco to achieve a balance on its current account during 1987.
The Medium Term Outlook
9.       The Policy Framework.   Since  1983,  the Government's  objective  of
achieving viable external and fiscal positions along with satisfactory growth
has been translated into a coherent medium-term strategy to restrain domestic
absorption and increase the efficiency of resource allocation throughout the
economy. The principal elements of Morocco's medium-term adjustment program
involve a shift to outward-looking trade and exchange rate policies;
far-reaching reforms of price, credit, tax and regulatory policies to remove
institutional and other obstacles to efficient mobilization and use of
resources in key productive sectors of the economy; considerable improvements
in the efficiency of gcrernment investment; more cost-effective methods and
better targetting of social programs; and a thorough overhaul of the education
and public enterprise sectors.
10.      The  shift  to  an  outward-oriented  development  strategy  is  the
cornerstone   of   Morocco's   medium-term   adjustment   program.    Continued
adjustments in trade and exchange rate policies will be made to complete the
reform of the overall incentive framework designed to accelerate export growth
and reduce and rationalize import protection. Key instruments are to be a
flexible exchange rate; a general reform of the tariff level and atructure,
with the objective of reducing the overall level of protection to 25 percent
through decreasing maximum duty rates and evening out the spread in tariff
rates within and between sectors by the end of 1988; and finally, a phasing
out of quantitative restrictions on imports.  Domestic price controls, which
began to be removed in 1983-84 on many manufactured products, are planned to
be fally eliminated, in parallel with progress in import liberalization.
Remaining export licensing requirements will be abolished, with exporters to
be entitled to import all inputs on a duty-free basis.



11.      At  the  same  time,  appropriate  sector  strategies  for  the  key
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, will be promoted.
In industry, although the development of Morocco's potential for export of
phosphate fertilizers will continue to be an important objective, the
contribution of this highly capital-intensive sector to employment and to the
establishment of a broader industrial base through forward and backward
linkages,  will  remain  limited.   Moreover,  a high degree of dependence on
phosphete and phosphate fertilizer exports has made Morocco extremely
vulnerabie to cyclical fluctuations in the volatile world phosphate market.
For this reason, the industrial strategy must be based on the diversification
of  manufactured  exports,  including  processed  foods  and  nontraditional
manufactures where Morocco may have a comparative advantage on world markets.
In agriculture, Morocco needs to continue developing an appropriate package of
policies designed to overcome existing constraints to rational land use
patterns, to ensure that farmers have adequate incentives to improve farming
techniques and use modern inputs, and to provide the support services needed
to bring about these changes.  A first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(No. 2590-MOR) supporting such policy direction was extended by the Bank in
June 1985. A second is to be negotiated in the near future.
12.      The low productivity of investment has been one of the majot factors
in the poor performance of the Moroccan economy in the past ten years. The
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investment need to be improved
considerably both in the public and private sectors.  In the private sector,
the reform of the protection framework described above should go a long way
towards removing distortions in investment patterns. However, it will also be
necessary to review the bias in favor of capital-intensive activities inherent
in the current investment incentive system, including tax exemptions and
interest rate subsidies which artificially depress the cost of capital.  In
the public sector, increasing the efficiency of investment will require a
considerable improvement of existing planning and budgeting mechanisms,
including better procedures for setting investment priorities, strengthening
of project preparation and monitoring capability, and placing more emphasis -an
the economic evaluation of projects before they receive Government sanction.
Policy actions to improve the public investment and enterprise framework as
well as continuing reform of trade policy and a comprehensive approach to
financial sector reform are supported by the Bank's second Industrial and
Trade Policy Adjustment loan approved in July 1985. After some delays, the
Government completed the agreed reforms, and the second tranche of this loan
was released on October 29, 1986.
13.      An exceptionally strong savings effort will be essential  for  the
success  of Morocco's  adjustment process.   In the private sector financial
savings have been repressed in the past due to inadequate financial policies
and negative real interest rates.  Savings are now being encouraged through
increases in deposit rates and a program of financial sector reforms to
improve financial intermediation and develop the domestic money and capital
markets. But the most intense savings efforts in the next few years will have
to take place in the public sector, which continues to be a major source of
dissaving, particularly through the Government budget.  In the medium term,



sustained improvement in the mobilization and utilization of resources by the
public sector will require fundamental reforms in a number of key areas,
including social expenditure policies, taxation, and cost recovery and
efficiency in the public enterprise sector.   In the social sectors, where
coverage of the population is still inadequate, Government activities need to
be restructured so that basic services, particularly education and health, can
be  delivered  more  effectively  but  at  substantially  lower  cost.   More
cost-effective methods and better targeting will be prerequisites to a further
broadening  of  access  to  these  services  in  the  future.   Food  and  other
subsidies also need to be targeted to the groups most in need rather than
directed to the general population.
14.      Macroeconomic Projections.  An assessment of the Government's reform
programs indicates that Morocco may not complete its adjustment process before
the  early  1990s.   The  growth  of  the  economy  is  likely  to be  severely
constrained in the early years of the adjustment process.   However, as the
restructuring measures designed to promote exports, improve resource use and
increase domestic savings begin to work their effects through the economy, the
external imbalance should lessen, and restraints on domestic demand could
gradually be relaxed. Moreover, the growth of external demand expected to
result from the trade liberalization and export promotion policies, and the
switch in the composition of domestic demand from imported to domestic goods,
fostered by the adjustment of relative prices, should help mitigate the
temporary negative impact of slower public expenditure growth on incomes and
employment.
15.      The projections suggest that GDP is likely to grow on average at
4.32 p.a. until 1990, gradually rising to an average annual rate of 4.81
thereafter.   Domestic demand is expected to increase in the future in line
with the strong recovery of investment.   Assuming  that  central  government
investment expenditures remain constant in real terms in the medium term, the
adjustments would occur primarily in the public enterprises and in the private
sector. Government consumption, which had grown very rapidly until recently,
is projected to decline marginally in real terms and to drop by 3 percentage
points  in relation  to GDP between 1985 and 1993.   The growth of private
consumption, which already slowed significantly in the early 1980s, would
remain just above that of GDP in 1985-90, and decline only slightly in the
1990s.  Restructuring  policies  should bring about  an acceleration  in  the
growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services. The acceleration of export
growth would help sustain a modest recovery of imports, the overall trend of
which has been downward since 1978. Imports, however, should rise much more
slowly than exports between 1985 ar.d 1990, as a result of the demand restraint
and expenditure switching policies.
16.      As a result of the drop in the GDP share of both investment and
consumption, there should be a steady decline in the economy's resource gap
through 1990.  Gross domestic savings are expected to rise much faster than
GDP over the medium-term, initially as a result of improved savings
mobilization by the public sector, and later reflecting continued substantial
improvements in private savings as well.   The marginal  savings  rate with



Medium-Term Projections of Macro-economic Astresates
Annual Growth Rate (%)           Share of GDP (S)
1980-86   1986-90   1990-95   1985        1990      1995
- (At constant 1980 prices) -
GDP                         3.3        4.1       4.8    100        100        100
Consumption                 3.0        3.8       4.1     88.3       86.2       83.2
Public                    3.0        1.4       4.8     20.9       18.0       18.0
Private                   3.0       4.5        3.9     67.5       68.2       65.2
Investment                 -1.6        3.9       8.4     16.9       16.8       19.9
Total Domestic Demand       2.2        3.8       4.8    105.2      103.0      103.1
Exports of GNFS             4.7        6.0       5.4      19.6      21.5       22.1
Imports of GNFS            -0.2       4.6        5.4     24.9       24.5       25.1
Resource Gap                                               5.3       3.0        3.0
Gross Domestic Savings      5.1        6.7       9.2       9.8      14.2       17.4
Memo Items
Marginal Savings rate       0.16       0.25      0.35    11.3       16.4       20.7
(GNS/GNP)
ICOR                        6.5       5.2        3.8
respect to GNP will need to be relatively high in 1985-95, as a necessary
concomitant to reducing the external deficit. High domestic savings should
enable the economy to finance the recovery of investment without recourse to
external  savings  in  the  early  1990s.   This  will  be  essential,  since,
throughout the remainder of the 1980s, the balance of payments will remain
under considerable prassure because of continuing high debt service payments.
By the end of the decade, reforms of the overall economic incentive framework
and increased efficiency of public investment should have raised the
productivity of new investment considerably, and the ICOR should drop
substantially from the high levels prevailing in the early 1980s.
17.      External  Accounts.   A  steady  improvement  in  Morocco's  external
payments position should result from the acceleration of export growth
relative  to  import  growth anticipated in 1987-90.  The economy's negative
resource balance, which averaged more than US$2 billion in 1980-82, and
dropped to US$1.2-1.3 billion in 1983-84, is projected to decline until 1990
and  increase  slowly  thereafter.   Assuming  that  the  growth  of  workers'
remittances can be sustained at a moderate pace, the current account should
improve roughly in parallel with the overall resource balance and should reach
equilibrium around 1987. However, the overall balance of payments can be
expected to continue to show large deficits because of the heavy principal
repayments coming due on the extornal debt, including substantial repayments
to  the  IMF.   Because of mounting debt  service obligations,  gross  public
long-term   capital   requirements   are   projected   to  average   close   to
US$2.3 billion annually during the period 1987-90.



- 8 -
Medium-Term Balance of Payments Prolections
(US$ millions)
1986     1987       1988      1989      1990     1995
Exports of GNFS            3747     4130       4563       4982     5456      8689
Imports of GNFS            4244     4628       5096       5435     5845      9285
Net Resource Balance       -497      -498      -533       -453     -388      -596
Factor Service Income       286       409       420        218      323       800
Net Current Transfers       170       186       216        233      252       322
Current Acct Balance        -41        97       103         -2      186       526
Capital Long term (net)    274         71       181       -186     -332      -321
Other Capital (net)         122      -412        82         91      100       161
Use of net IMF Credits    -279        -97      -152       -2(      -251         0
Change in net
foreign assets           -76     -144       -217       -78      -162     -100
( inc = - )
Financing Gap                 -       485         2        436      555       272
Memo Items
Debt relief              1850     1266       1074
Debt service as
2 of Exports (GWS)        37        34        28.1       44       46.5    24.4
18.      External Debt.  It is clear, under these circumstances, that Morocco
will continue to require debt relief for several more years. As a result of
agreements recently concluded with official Paris Club creditors and
commercial banks, debt relief has been obtained on medium-term debt falling
due through 1988, as well as previously rescheduled debt. The effects of
these rescheduling agreements on the servicing of the civilian debt have been
incorpor*.ed  into  the  medium-term  balance-of-payments  projections.    In
addition, the model assumes additional rescheduling in 1988 but only on
civilian  debt.-    Normal  public long-term capital inflows could be barely
sufficient to cover the remaining financing requirements in 1986-88 (about
US$1.1 billion annually), assuming that new loan commitments from Morocco's
official lenders can be maintained at their current rate (about US$800 million
a  year).   Recourse  to  commercial  bank  financing  is  likely  to  remain
constrained, with gross disbursements from private sources expected to average
about US$100-150 million per annum, probably strongly conditioned on, if not
directly tied to, specific adjustment programs. In 1987, a financing gap of
approximately US$500 million corresponding to short-term arrears (which is
expected to be reduced to about US$400 million at the end of the year) will be
met through rescheduling.
19.      In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few years and the need to build reserves, the long-term external debt
1/ About US$206 million and US$174 million of military debt service payments
coming due in 1986 and 1987, respectively, are assumed to be rescheduled
along the same lines as other obligations.



- 9 -
outstanding and disbursed would continue to rise slowly until 1992, but would
begin to stabilize thereafter. The ratio of debt outstanding and disbursed to
exports of goods and services, which had risen to 268 percent in 1984, would
start to decline, progressively dropping to 173 percent by 1990 and 79 percent
by 1995.  In the absence of debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service
ratio would have risen to 57 and 74 percent of exports of goods and services
in 1985 and 1986, respectively.   The debt relief obtained for  the period
1985-87 reduces  the debt service ratio to about 35 percent.  Without any
furt -.  debt relief, it would rise sharply in 1989, with repayments on the
1983-b4 rescheduled maturities (including military debt) falling due, but
would then start declining gradually in the 1990s.
20.      Given  this difficult  debt situation,  Morocco's  commitment  to  an
aggressive program of structural adjustment is essential for the country to be
considered creditworthy for continued Bank lending.  Bank exposure amounted to
112 of total debt outstanding in 1985, and approximately 12% in 1986, and is
projected  to be  about  20Z by the early  1990s.   Future  Bank  lending  is
conditional on the deepening of policy reforms already underway and on the
mobilization of additional external resources from sources other than the
Bank.   The  March  1987  Consultative  Group  meeting,  the  rescheduling  of
commercial bank debt falling due through March 1988, and the recent
consolidation of trade arrears, constituted initial efforts in this direction.
21.      Social Impact.  It is important to recognize that the implet  tation
of the stabilization policies and measures for structural adjustment e;.visaged
in this scenario will entail some transitional social costs. With population
growth at about 2.5 percent p.a., GNP and consumption per capita, which have
been essentially stagnant since 1980, are not likely to show much improvement
in real terms until the end of the present decade. Stabilization policies and
measures to increase efficiency will initially be reflected to some extent in
depressed domestic demand, increased unemployment, and some decline in real
incomes, particularly the real income of urban populations, Government
employees, and workers in less competitive industries. On the other hand, the
real income of farmers, who constitute by far the poorest segment of the
population, should rise as a result of increases in agricultural producer
?rices and improvements in support services and marketing institutions and
infrastructure. This will be particularly true of farmers in rainfed areas.
The political and social implications of these welfare shifts are likely to be
significant, and to keep them manageable will be a major concern of the
Government in the next few years. Several compensatory programs in the area
of nutritional support are under study in orcier to identify more effective
methods  of  alleviating  the plight of  the poor.   While  the cost of not
undertaking the required economic adjustments would be greater in the long
run, it will be important to minimize the negative short-term impact of these
adjustments on the poorest groups. After 1990, as a result of the reforms
undertaken in the 1980s, the economy could return gradually to a higher growth
path without endangering external equilibrium.  Per capita levels of income
and consumption could begin to rise again, and the restoration of economic
dynamism would greatly improve Morocco's ability to deal with its serious
unemployment problem.



- 10 -
PART I - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE (PE) SECTOR
(a) Organization and soope of the PE secter
22.      PEs co-exist with private enterprises in a mixed economic  system
whose origins can be traced to the post-World War I period.  Initially PEs
developed in number, scope, and nature based on a perceived need to secure
public  control  of  natural  resources.   PE  objectives  were  progressively
broadened  to Moroccanize  and  spearhead  economic  development,  to  create
employment, and to promote the growth of underdeveloped areas. The miaing,
energy, transportation and telecommunications sectors feature prominently in
the span of PE activities.
23.      PEs generally take one of two principal legal forms: those created by
legislation or regulation,  known as Etablissements  Publics  Industriels et
Commerciaux (EPIC), and PEs created pursuant to corporate law, known as
Societ6s Anonymes (SA).  The legal form reflects convenience or historical
accident, with most public service PEs and regulatory or quasi-governmental
agencies being EPICs, and most industrial and commercial PEs being SAs. The
PE sector includes some 450 major enterprises of which 25S are regulatory,
quasi-governmental  institutions,  8%  public  service  monopolies  and  the
remaining  671  industrial  and  commercial  concerns.   Government  has  full
ownership of 521 of these enterprises, majority participation in another 252
and  minority  participation  in  the  remaining  231.   In  essence,  however,
Moroccan nomenclature and the organization of the sector masks the fact that
many EPICs function in fact as extensions of Government departments engaged in
providing agricultural, educational and health services to the general
population.
24.      The organs  of direction,  management and  internal  control of PEs
generally include a General Assembly of Shareholders (for PEs organized under
company law), a Board of Directors (BOD), a Technical Committee (optional), a
Chief  Executive Officer  (CEO),  and staff.   Members  of  BODs  are  usually
selected and appointed by the Government and represent the ministries whose
activities are related to those of the enterprise. By legislation (Dahir of
September 19, 1977), the Prime Minister is the Chairman of the BODs of the
EPICs. Usually he delegates this function to the Minister of the concerned
parent   ministry   or   another   senior   representative   of   the   Public
Administration.  The presence of Ministers -on BODs has often  resulted  in
under-involvement or over-involvement of the Boards in the management of PEs,
decision-making based on political rather than economic considerations, and
confusion of the roles of the parent ministries and the Boards.  The CEO
implements the decisions of the Board and ensures the day-to-day management of
the  enterprise.   The CEOs of all EPICs are appointed by  the King upon
recommendation of the parent Minister or their BODs.  Enterprise staff are
under the authority of the CEO, though statutes governing the conditions of
their employment and remuneration need to be submitted to the Government for
approval.



- 11 -
(b) Govermment Management of the PE Sector
25.      The  State  directs  and oversees  PEs  through  a  system  of  double
tutelage.    The  sponsoring  Ministry  is  responsible  for  technical  and
administrative control, and the Ministry of Finance for financial control.
The Ministry of Finance exercises its financial control through its Department
of Public Enterprises and Participations (DEPP), which supervises all PEs,
with the exception of those of a quasi-governmental nature; these, as
non-income generating entities, report directly to the Department of the
Budget  in the Ministry  of  Finance.   DEPP staff numbers 100 professionals
including: (i) financial comptrollers, who are appointed directly by the
Minister of Finance to approve all important financial and procurement
decisions by enterprise management, and (ii) accounting agents who are
permanently assigned to the most important PEs to countersign payment orders,
and to ensure that their accounts are properly kept. The General Inspectorate
within the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the auditing of PEs.
26.      An  Interministerial  Committee  for  Public  Enterprises  and  State
Participations (CIPEP), chaired by the Prime Minister and comprising the key
ministries concerned with PE operations, was established in 1980 to coordinate
government policies and decisions with respect to the sector. However, the
CIPEP remained dormant mainly because of unclear lines of responsibility
between the ministries involved and PEs. The Government has also established
a Vigilance Committee for PEs to identify solutions to the problem of
financial arrears in the sector. The Committee is chaired by the Minister of
Public Works. The Government institutional framework to oversee PEs will be
altered and strengthened under the proposed loan.
(*) Rationale for PE Reform
27.      The  PE sector  is an  important  element  of  the Moroccan economy,
accounting for approximately 20% of GDP, 30% of investment, and 502 of
exports.   Its performance has declined markedly since  the mid-1970s.   The
relative ease of obtaining financing through either borrowing or Government
transfers induced a degree of laxity in PE financial discipline. For example,
a significant portion of PE resources was channeled into investments of
limited productivity, as evideuced by the growing operating deficits of
numerous PEs. In the early 1980s, access to external sources of financing was
curtailed and budgetary resources became increasingly scarce, subjecting many
PEs to liquidity difficulties. Moreover, the Government failed to reduce its
own consumption of PEs' goods and services in line with available Government
resources, leading to a consequent build-up of domestic payment arrears to PEs
which disguised the actual magnitude of the budget deficit and further
exacerbated  PE  liquidity  problems.   In  1985,  budgetary  transfers  to  PEs
totaled approximately DR 3 billion  (US$300 million)  or nearly  25%  of  the
overall Treasury deficit, whereas the outstanding stock of Government payment
arrears to PEs totalled DH 6.1 billion at end-1985, or 51 of GDP. Because of
its share in overall economic activity and links to the Government budget,
reform of the PE sector is a key component of the Government's program of
structural adjustment and stabilization.



- 12 -
28.      Lessening  the  dependence  of  public  enterprises  on  budget:ary
transfers, however, implies a thorough restructuring of the sectur to enhance
its  overall  efficiency,  including  measures  to  improve  its  competitive
environment, promote financial and managerial autonomy and accountability, and
rationalize institutional arrangements. Reform of the PE sector is expected
to mitigate the financial and administrative demands on the Government in the
short-term and contribute to economic growth by raising the level of
enterprise production and productivity in the medium-term.
(d) Financa Situation of the PubUc Enterpnse Sector
29.      The financial situation of the PE sector as a whole has become
increasingly strained as a result of weak profitability, high indebtedness,
undercapitalization, and over reliance on the Treasury as a source of
financing. A study of the financial performance of a selected cross-section
of the largest PEs reveals net operating losses for some, excessive levels of
debt, and li-ited working capital.  The inability to raise prices to meet
rising costs has strained earnings, and the considerable level of Government
payment arrears to PEs has constrained their liquidity. Consequently, many of
the enterprises have had to resort increasingly to borrowings and budgetary
transfers to finance the gap.
30.      Recourse  to  borrowing  has  tended  to  accelerate  in  periods  of
stabilization-induced fiscal austerity with scarce budgetary resources.
During the periods 1976-78 and 1983-84, characterized by significant real
reductions in budgetary transfers, PEs experienced substantial increases in
indebtedness.  Much of this borrowing took place on international  capital
markets in order to bolster the Government's dwindling foreign exchange
reserves. However, in view of the reduced access to external capital markets
and the tight credit ceilings established under the IMF Standby arrangements
in the recent past, borrowings have slowed and served to finance a smaller
proportion of PE  investments.   In fact,  domestic and external borrowings
financed respectively 122 and 27.62 of PE investment in 1982 compared to 10%
and 36S in 1973-77. The substitution of Dollar for Dirham liabilities which
characterized the 1970s is thus being reversed. On the other hand, there has
been a dramatic shift in the term structure of PE debt, with short-term debt
now predominating, as PEs borrowed to finance the build-up of arrears.
31.      The  financial  profitability  of  certain  PEs  has  been  generally
insufficient to meet debt service obligations and remunerate shareholders,
with the result that much of the PE debt to external creditors had to be
rescheduled along with that of the Government. This situation reflected both
rigidities in pricing policy and investments which did not generate requisite
rates of return at  the prevailing  financial  prices.  At present, only a
limited nuumber of PEs transfer funds to the Treasury in the form of dividends
and taxes. At the same time, stabilization demands have reduced the potential
for financing PE activity with budgetary resources. This situation militates
in favor of a restructuring of PE operations in order to generate the
operating surplus necessary to finance a higher portion of their investment
programs, reduce their reliance on the budget, and eventually transfer funds
to  the Treasury.  This generalized  increase  in public savings  is a  key
component of Morocco's adjustment program.



- 13 -
(e) Public Enterprise Problems and Development lsues
() Weak competitive environment
32.      Many PEs have been immunized from competitive pressures and market
prices, since they are either monopolies or are protected by high tariffs or
other import restrictions.   Procurement decisions are often insulated  from
market  forces.   Incentive  systems  are not  geared  to  promote  efficiency.
Consequently, the sector is prone to inefficiencies, the costs of which are
transferred to taxpayers through Government subsidies, and to consumers
through low quality products and services   Performance monitoring of PEs is
ineffective or non-existent, so that PE management faces neither sanctions nor
rewards in the execution of PE business. Finally, the Government's inability
to meet its financial obligations toward the sector shields managers from
financial accountability.
(O)  Inappropriate pric!ngpoliies
33.      Social  and  political,   as  well  as  budgetary  and   financial,
considerations have created a web of price controls and formulae which do not
reflect economic costs. In the service and monopolistic PEs, the problem has
been compounded by the lack of detailed cost-accounting systems which inhibits
the matching of price movements with changes in input prices. As a result,
the Government has frequently been unable to set prices at economic levels.
Some enterprises also suffer operating deficits since the Government requires
them to engage in unprofitable activities for social or political reasons, or
provide public services for which they receive little or inadequate
compensation.   Excessive  borrowing  or  subsidies  are  required  to  replace
foregone revenues. In the case of international borrowings, foreign exchange
losses to PEs have resulted. in many instances.
(fii) Government Arrears
34.      The  financial  health of many PEs is seriously threatened by the
failure of the Government to pay for goods and services provided by PEs to
various branches of the public administration, as well as to make available in
a timely manner funds committed under existing finance laws, principally for
investment purposes.   This results in an increase in liabilities of these
enterprises to the banking sector or to their failure to pay for goods and
services they purchase from other enterprises.
(iv) Interface between Government and Enterprise
35.      The  absence  of  ways  and  means  to  set  coherent  and  consistent
corporate objectives for PEs has led both to insufficient Governmental policy
direction and monitoring of them, as well as excessive Government interference
in   the  more   routine   decision-making   responsibilities   of   enterprise
management.   This interference has been manifest in financial,  investment,
procurement, and staff recruitment and career development decisions, and has
had adverse consequences for enterprise operations.



- 14 -
(v)  Ihternal Enterprise Maeent
36.      Wbile the largest commercial PEs generally have adequate management
information systems (MIS), many others still lack any organized form of
information gathering for managerial and operational purposes.   This  is a
major constraint to the establishment of effective Government monitoring of PE
performance.
(vi) Inadequate Accotmting Standards and Auditing Principles
37.      Morocco lacks a uniform and well-defined accounting system.  There is
no appropriate legal framework regulating the profession of chartered
accountants and establishing auditing requirements by recognized, independent
auditors. These shortcomings have prevented meaningful consolidations and
comparisons of the financial statements of different enterprises.
(vui) Involvement of the State in Productive Ativities
38.      There is no coherent strategy determining the role of the State in
the  1ational  economy.   In many  instances,  the original  reasons  for  the
creation of a PE, such as scantiness of risk capital or qualified
entrepreneurs, have vanished. The State is presently engaged in a multitude
of economic activities whose strategic importance is questionable, and which
could be carried out by the private sector.
39.      The above-mentioned problems and development issues for PEs have been
recognized by the Government and corrective measures will be implemented
under  the proposed  loan.   The  following section presents the proposed PE
rationalization program to address these issues.
PART m - THE PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONAUZATION PROGRAM
A.   Introduction
40.      Following a study of the PE sector carried out in the early 19808 by
consultants working under a special Government task force, the Government
decided to undertake a number of measures to improve the performance,
monitoring and control of PEs.   Several  enterprise-specific  rehabilitation
programs were  launched  in 1983-84,  including:   (i) signing of a contract
prograin&'  with  the  national  airline;  (ii) establishment  of  a  similar
arrangement with the national bus company; (iii) launching of a development
program for the coal company; (iv) review of commercial and business policies
of a small-scale mining organization; (v) reorganization of the financial
1/  A contract program is a corporate developmet plan agreed between the
Government and a PE in which the PE's objectives, the actions to achieve
these objectives, and the measures required to carry out such actions are
defined.



- 15 -
structure of a sugar company; (vi) restructuring of cargo handling and
operations in major ports; and (vii) the establishment of a Vigilance
Committee  in  1984  to  address  the  arrears  problem.   Energy  conservation
measures were taken to reduce costs; substantial price increases were effected
for a broad range of goods and services; and, beginning in 1985 under an IMF
Standby agreement, a ceiling was established for Government transfers to PEs.
41.      At the same time, to improve enterprise efficiency and to promote
growth, the Government pursued its public commitment to continue a program of
divestiture to the private sector of PE activities not considered to be of
strategic  importance.   Hotels belonging  to the  Moroccan  National  Tourist
Office were leased to private concerns in 1982 and 1985. Three subsidiaries
of the National Fishing Office were sold to private groups in 1984, and
fishing boats were leased to Moroccan or Spanish private ship-owners.   In
1984, the State sold the bulk of its holdings in certain sugar factories.
Responsibility for the marketing of processed food products and the monopoly
on exports of fresh fruits and vegetables was removed from the Office de
Commercialization des Exportations, OCE. In 1985, the State relinquished its
monopoly of cargo handling to an enterprise which functions in accordance with
commercial principles.
B. The Banks Role
42.      The Government program, while helpful financially, did not include
basic structural measures to rationalize the sector, since it was too limited
in scope and ad hoc in nature.  In 1985 the Government invited the Bank to
analyze the sector and to help it devise a broader policy framework and reform
program for PE operations. Bank sector work was initiated, as a result of
which a medium-term program was developed which was designed simultaneously to
address the problems related to the external environment in which PEs operate,
as well as to the internal constraints confronting PE management and
operations.
C. Prinei les. Objectives and Seoe of the Rationaization  pam
43.      The rationalization program  rests on the principle that only the
existence of competitive or similar pressures promotes the continuing pursuit
of efficiency.  With this principle in mind, a broad set of measures was
identified with the objective of (i) promoting financial independence and
accountability of PEs, (ii) developing their administrative and managerial
autonomy and accountability, and (iii) disengaging the State from productive
activities which could more effectively be carried out by the private sector.
The program is expected to enhance the productivity of PEs, reduce their
dependence on scarce budgetary resources, and rationalize the role of the
State in the economy by concentrating it on policy making and the provision of
essential services.
44.      The Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan (PERL) has been ^onceived
as the first of a series of operations through which the policy framework and
the measures stated above would be implemented. Reforms are to be introduced



- 16 -
at Governmental level affecting all PEs, as well as through the institutional,
managerial, organizational, financial and physical restructuring of selected
PEs, according to the needs identified by successive Bank missions. Multiple
criteria have been used to manage the introduction of PE reforms at enterprise
level. In light of the severe budget constraints facing Morocco, the largest
beneficiaries of Government transfers appear to be the most appropriate
initial  candidates  for  restructuring.   Also  those  PEs  most  affected  by
Government arrears (para. 34 above) and those whose operations and finances
had widespread multiplying effects throughout the economy were considered
principal potential beneficiaries of this loan. Six PEs which represented the
bulk of Government transfers and were most affected by arrears have been
selected for restructuring during the first two years of the  reform.   In
addition, sector surveys of the mining, sugar refining and Transport sectors
will be conducted to facilitate the identification of future candidates for
restructuring. The six selected enterprises are the national power company,
Office National de l'Electricite (ONE); the national water supply company,
Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP); the railways company, Office National
des  Chemins  de Fer  (ONCF);  the  refineries  Soci6te  Anonyme  Marocaine  de
l'Industrie du Raffinage (SAMIR) and Societe Cherifien du P6trole (SCP); and
the oil distribution company, Soci6te Nationale des Produits Petroliers
(SNPP). Aside from the national phosphate company (OCP) and the agricultural
organizations (ORMVAs and CTs) which are being assisted through separate Bank
Group operations, these firms account for about 56% of all transfers to PEs.
Previous Bank association with some of these enterprises and knowledge of
their operations have also provided the basis for their use as vehicles for
introducing the reform measures.
45.      The medium-term objectives and scope of the planned reform, as well
as the steps to be taken during its first two years, are specified by the
Government in a Letter of Development Policy, the English translation of which
is  presented  in  Annex  IV.   The  letter  also  contains  the  Government's
commitment to continue pursuing macro-economic stabilization and adjustment
programs, so as to ensure that arrears to the sector do not recur. The Bank
and IMF have worked in close association to ensure the consistency of the
terms of the current Standby and this loan.  A timetable for implementing
these policies in the next two years (the implementation period for the
proposed operation) is included in Annex V.
D.   Policies and Measures to Foster Financial Autonomy   Accountabiity  and
Competition
46.      The disappointing financial performance of PEs has three interrelated
causes, namely, inappropriate financing plans for PEs, inadequate pricing of
output, and poor investment planning and project selection. In addition, the
financial viability of PEs as a whole has been undermined by the considerable
accumulation of receivables from central and local government as well as other
PEs. Under the Government's reform program, financial restructuring of PEs
would be based on the two following fundamental objectives: first, cost
efficiency within the PEs, to be achieved through enhanced management
accountability and performance monitoring; second, increased PE revenues would



- 17 -
be achieved through appropriate pricing policies. This second objective would
be reached by setting market prices for enterprises operating in a competitive
environment.   For non-competitive  enterprises,  price mechanisms to reflect
economic values will be established, so as to produce a set of signals which
would induce these enterprises to behave as if they were exposed to
competitive forces. In particular, the Bank loan would assist the Government
in promoting financial autonomy of enterprises through (a) a restructuring of
the way in which PEs are financed by putting greater reliance on commercial
sources of financing and eliminating unjustified government transfers; (b) the
adjustment of output prices to match their market value, promote financial
viability of PEs and send correct signals to consumers, (c) improvements in
the planning, evaluation and monitoring of PE investments in accordance with
economic and financial criteria, and (d) the restoration of financial
discipline and viability deriving from the Government's implementation of a
comprehensive program to settle its arrears to the sector and prevent their
recurrence.
(a)   Reform of PE Financing
(i)  Publc Service PEs
47.      Service-oriented PEs, such as ONE, ONEP and ONCF, generally do not
receive operating subsidies, although they depend on capital grants and
concessional treasury financing for a large part of their investment needs.
The  present  structure  of  their  financing  +.-icates  that,  on  average,
self-financing ratios are less than 25X with Government contributions
averaging 50% of their financial needs. Government medium-term objectives are
to eliminate the operating subsidies entirely and provide investment funds
exclusively in the form of equity contributions, whenever required, to meet
the costs of creating new production facilities, and to maintain debt/equity
ratios  consonant  with  prudent  financial  management.   Prices  of  utility
services will be set in accordance with efficiency criteria to achieve and
maintain enterprise financial autonomy, and internally generate financial
resources  at appropriate  levels.   Assets would  be  revalued  according  to
predetermined depreciation and revaluation schedules and will include past
government-financed investment. The medium-term objective of the government
reform  program  of  which  this  loan  supports  the  first  two  years  of
implementation aims at achieving, by the early 1990s, self-financing ratios of
25-451,   reducing  Government  contributions  to  0-302  of  PE  investment
requirements, and having the capital market and other sources provide the
remaining 40-652.
48.   For the PEs to be restructured under PERL this objective will be reached
through the combination of tariff adjustments, strict control of new
investment and increasing productivity of existing assets described in the
coming sections of this report. As a result of these measures, self-financing
ratios will rise considerably after 1987 and result in an estimated decline of
investment transfers by about 151 p.a. in nominal terms i.e. from
approximately DR 1.3 billion annually during the period 1984 to 1986, to
DH 300-400 million million by 1990.



- 18 -
(ii)  Industra and Commerel PEA
49.      In accordance with Government policy of redefining its role in the
Moroccan economy, no public financial assistance will be provided to PEs which
are able to raise funds on the capital market.  This approach is already being
applied to commercial enterprises in the petroleum sector, namely, SAMIR, SCP
and SNPP, which have already achieved full financial independence.
50.      The main commercial PEs still receiving budgetary support are ONAREP
and BRPM. For ONAREP, the national oil company, the Government has decided
that the enterprise will limit its oil exploration activity to what is
strictly needed to concentrate on the development of existing wells, as well
as the promotion of exploration of Moroccan fields by foreign oil companies.
Investment transfers to BRPM, the national mine holding company, amount to
about DH 100 million annually, comprised of operating losses of its
subsidiaries, some of which have already been closed down and await formal
liquidation. The global downturn in prices for minerals and metals, combined
with management problems at BRPM and in the mines, compound the problems. The
loan will support the preparation of an overall restructuring program for
BRPM. In the meantime the Government will significantly reduce its budgetary
transfers to the company.
(iui) Investment Transfers to PE Sector
51.      For the PE sector as a whole, Government transfers will be limited as
follows:
(millions of Dirhams)
1986     1987     1988     1989      1990
a) Total Public Invest. Budget
(authorizations)              20,500   19,900   23,190   25,560   28,170
b) Total Invest. Transfers
to PEs (authorizations)        3,573    2,350    1,700    1,500    1,500
c) Share of PE Transfers in Total
Invest. Budget (auth.)        17.4S    11.8S      7.3%     5.82     5.3%
d) Total Investment Transfers
to PEs (cash payments)         1,770    1,300    1,400    1,250    1,250
The  transfer  ceilings  for  1987  anmd  1988  are  reflected  in  the  loan
conditionality.
52.      The share of the PE sector in overall investment transfers will
decline consistently, begining in 1987, notwithstanding a marginal increase in
levels of cash payments in 1988 due to an unavoidable increase in the
investment  cash requirements of the water  supply  sector.   A  significant
feature of the new Government policy is the reduction of the present gap
between authorization and cash payments which is expected to move from over
100% in 1986 to below 20S starting from 1988. This reduction is part of a set
of measures to establish a cash management system which will ensure
consistency between available budget resources, commitments and expenditures.



- 19 -
(b)   Reform of Ptinc Po,lies
i)  Prioln of Public Utilities
53.      Under the Letter of Development Policy, the Government is committed
to   achieve   price   levels   which   enable   the   enterprises   beginning
January 1, 1989, to recover all their operating costs, under efficient
operations, aervice their debt and make appropriate contributions to the
financing of future investments so as to limit Government financing to
essential equity contributions1'.   Studies financed by the Bank  to define
appropriate tariff structures based on LRMC will be carried out for ONE and
ONEP, to be completed by mid-1988.  ONCF tariffs will be further reviewed
during 1988 in connection with the revaluation of its assets and the
deregulation measures which will emerge from a Transport Development and
Policy Study included in PERL.
54.      Prior to the implementation of the pricing policies that will result
from these studies, the Government will ensure that the two utility companies
and ONCF make interim adjustments to prices in 1987 and 1988 as specified
below:
Increases in Utility Rates
(nominal terms)
1987          1988
ONE                                      51             51
ONEP                                    101            12%
ONCF - Passengers and Freight           10            101
55.      The tariff increases were determined on the following basis.  First,
the investment programs for the enterprises were set at the minimum necessary
to maintain service levels in the face of increasing demand (for ONE and ONEP)
and increased competition (for ONCF). Second, the financing plan for these
investments was agreed, including debt that the PEs could contract and the
equity that the Government could provide. The gap in the financing plan
determined the internally generated funds that the enterprises needed to
generate  from  tariff  increases.   In  addition  to  these  contributions  to
investments, the level of tariff was set to enable the enterprises to cover
all operating and maintenmace costs and service all debt. The 1987 tariff
increases for ONE and ONEP and ONCF's request to the Government to increase
its tariffs were effected on May 1, 1987. Tariff increases for ONCF will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (first tranche release). Proposals for the
1988 tariff increases for all three enterprises are indicative, and will be
1/ ONE would meet the above requirements starting from 1987.



- 20 -
reviewed before their introduction in the light of general economic
conditions, including inflation, and the status of execution of the investment
programs  of  each  concerned  PE.   Implementation  by  these  three  PEs  of
appropriate tariff increases will be condition of second tranche release.
After 1989, tariffs will be set in accordance with the principle described in
para. 53 above. The Government is also committed to ensuring that all prices
to ONE and ONEP are immediatly passed on to the ultimate consumers in order to
protect the financial health of the water and electricity distribution
agencies (Regies).
56.      As a result of these  increases, the financial performance of the
concerned PEs will improve, and their demands on the budget will decrease.
Over the period 1987-1990, ONE is expected to become a major net contributor
to the Treasury.  Its income and other tax transfers  in this period will
amount to DR 3.5 billion, compared to demands for budget funds for investments
of only DH 32 million which are for electrification of the Sahara provinces
made at the Government's request. ONE's rate of return on net fixed assets in
service will increase from 11.8% to 16.42 during the period 1987 to 1990.
ONEP will be able to decrease its need for Government contributions to its
investment program from 512 in 1987 to 36% in 1990 while increasing its own
contribution from zero in 1985 to 16%  in 1990.  Its debt service  coverage
ratio will improve from 1.2 to 1.9, while the rate of return on net fixed
assets  in  service  will  increase  from  1%  to  5%.  ONCF  will  achieve  a
self-financing ratio of 4% in 1987 and 30% on average in the following years
as compared to -212 in 1986; government transfers to ONCF will decrease from
DH 515 million in 1986 to less than DH 200 million by 1990.
(i)  Pricig of Petroleum Products
57.      Prices  of petroleum  products are  distorted  due  to  the arbitrary
system of price-setting, which has resulted in prices bearing little
relationship to overall supply-demand balances, so that they do not adequately
serve to balance imports and refinery output to optimize the supply in
Morocco.   Margins  do  not  compensate  distribution  costs,  leading   to
decapitalization, and insufficient maintenance and replacement. The system of
price administration, and consequent payments to and from the Compensation
Fund, are unwieldy, slow, and disruptive, with payments being held up for as
much as five months. The Government intends to liberalize prices by gradually
aligning ex-refinery prices with c.i.f prices, thus promoting more efficient
procurement of crude oil or finished oil products by the two refineries, SAMIR
and SCP.  The margins of the distribution sector will be  increased.  The
Compensation Fund will be replaced by a Stabilization Fund whose mandate will
be to ensure some degree of stability in domestic prices, by adjusting local
prices in accordance to moving averages of international prices, rather than
reflecting fluctuating  spot prices.   The  implementation  of  the  new  price
scheme to link domestic prices to international pri. es, and the establishment
of the Stabilization Fund will take place during 19W, following the results of
studies to be financed under the loan. These studies will define detailed
procedures and schedules for the implementation of the pricing measures and
will assess their impact on industrial production costs and household
expenditures.



- 21 -
(iii) Pricing of Tradeable Outputs
58.      Government  controls on pricing of  tradeable  outputs  of  PEs  had
traditionally  been  limited  to  products  subject  to  limited  domestic
competition, such as tea, steel, cement and tractors. However, price controls
on all products have now been eliminated in the context of the Bank-supported
Industrial  and  Trade Policy Adjustment  (ITPA)  program.   Under  the  above
program, the Government stated its commitment to abolish price controls
simultaneously with the lifting of quantitative restrictions and the
establishment of appropriate tariffs.  Insofar as Moroccan steel producers are
not likely to be competitive for all steel products, even with tariff
protection, it is incumbent on the Government to undertake a strategic review
of the sector with a view to rationalizing its structure. Bank assistance for
this review could be considered under a future operation.
(e)   Investment Plannning and Selection
59.      The high ICOR in Morocco is indicative of weak investment planning,
and inadequate mechanisms to appraise, select, monitor and evaluate specific
projects. There is a need to improve investment reviews and decisions at all
stages of the project cycle.  As part of the PE sector reform, the Government
intends that all PE investment proposals estimated to cost DH 10 million or
more will be evaluated in accordance with financial and economic criteria as a
condition  for receiving Government financial support.   The Government will
also introduce new budget policies aimed at the effective integration of PE
investment planning into the budgetary process.
60.      In the power, water supply and transportation sectors, the Government
will delineate responsibilities of PEs and the parent ministries with respect
to investment planning, programming, selection, monitoring and evaluation;
design a system for supervising and monitoring project execution; develop
appropriate  programs  to  define  and  apply  sound  investment  appraisal
methodologies; and direct staff of PEs, tutelage ministries and financing
ministries to existing training programs being financed under the first
Vocational Training Project (Loan 2479-MOR).
(d) Gomernment Arrears to PE Sector
61.      At the end of 1985, total accounts receivable in arrears in the PE
sector    amounted    to    approximately    DH    26 billion    (approximately
US$2.7 billion).  Upon cross-cancellation of all mutually owed obligations
among Government and PEs, DH 7.1 billion remained outstanding, consisting of
DH 6.1 billion of net Government arrears to PEs, and DR 1.0 billion of arrears
owed by insolvent PEs to other entities for which the State, as guarantor, is
liable. Provisional data on 1986 indicate that net arrears increased in that
year  by  an  additional  DH 400 million  -  ie.  to  about  Dl 7.5 billion
(approximately US$800 million).
62.      Arrears stem mainly from under-budgeting of Government consumption
and from the Treasury's inability to transfer resources committed to PEs under
existing finance laws or agreed programs. Indirectly, arrears are also caused



- 22 -
by rigidities in pricing policy and Government insistence that PEs provide
costly and, at times, unrealistic levels of service for which inadequate
financial provisions are made. Arrears have grown very rapidly in the 19808,
and their effects have spread to financial and other commercial enterprises in
both the public and private sectors. Settlement of arrears and implementation
of measures to avoid their recurrence is a sine qua non of the Government's
macroeconomic stabilization program and of the PE rationalization program. A
Government Vigilance Committee (see paras 26 and 40 above), with Bank
assistance and IMF concurrence, has defined a comprehensive scheme to clear
past arrears and identify a program of measures to prevent their recurrence.
(V Settlement of Arrears
63.      The objectives of the proposed arrears settlement scheme are to clear
all bilateral and multilateral obligations in a manner consistent with
Morocco's fiscal stabilization program. The scheme has been established to
ensure that the increased liquidity of PEs resulting from the settlement of
arrears will have minimal impact on money creation.   To this end, and to
ensure an even-handed treatment of PE claims on the Government, appropriate
monitoring systems have been established.
64.      The implementation of the scheme, which will start in 1987, will be
as follows:
(i)  mutual  obligations  between  the  Government  and  PEs  will   be
cross-cancelled through entries in a special arrears clearance
account to be maintained and supervised by the General Receiver of
the Kingdom (Tr6sorerie Gen6rale) within the Ministry of Finance.
This action, as well as Government action to negotiate write-offs or
to convert part of its debt to some PEs into equity, is expected to
reduce the arrears to a net balance of DO 5 billion;
(ii) the Government will provide PEs with Treasury bonds for the amount of
the net balance. These bonds will be redeemed over 5 years beginning
in 1987 by DR 1 billion per anum. Repayments falling due during the
PERL implementation period will be DR 2.5 billion;
(iii) for the first two years the bonds will not bear interest and have
only limited negotiability. Starting in the third year from their
issuance, i.e. on about July 1, 1989, the bonds will bear an interest
rate of 62 and become fully negotiable;
(iv) the operations related to the issuance and exchange of bonds will be
monitored by the Bank of Morocco in a special ledger. The liquidity
positions of PEs and of the Treasury will be determinant in the Bank
of Morocco's decision to authorize the banking sector to discount the
bonds during the period of limited negotiability.
65.      Completion of the bilateral cancellation process and the issuance of
bonds are conditions of first tranche release. All bonds issued to PEs will
be used to retire the short term debt which has been resorted to to finance



- 23 -
arrears. The arrears settlement process would essentially replace short-term
informal credit extended by PEs and the private sector to the Government with
long-term credit  to the Government.   The  inflationary  or  "crowding  out"
effects of the arrears reduction process would be negligible, since the
transformation of existing credit to Government in the form of arrears into
obligations vis-a-vis the banking sector, attendant on the reduction of PE
liabilities to the latter, is the formalization of a phenomenon that has
already occurred.  The above procedures, including the establishment of the
special account and the ledger, have been authorized. The Bank will monitor
Government operation of the arrears clearance account and of the ledger to
ensure that the arrears settlement process is carried out as planned and
according to schedule.
(i)  Prevention of Future Arrears
66.      Since  1984, the  Government  has undertaken  steps  to prevent the
accumulation of new arrears.   They include reducing consumption of utility
services and supplies by the public administration, making civil servants pay
the cost of utilities in Government housing, and increasing the budgetary
allocations   earmarked   for   Government   consumption   expenditures.    The
introduction of these measures has already resulted in a 41 decline in the
volume of government consumption of water, electricity and telephone services
from 1984 to 1985, and has narrowed the gap between allocations and actual
expenditures.  Under the reform program, the Government would continue its
efforts to eliminate waste in the public consumption of services and goods
provided  by PEs.   It will also make  full budgetary allocations  for its
consumption of services by ensuring that budgetary provisions are based on
actual billings of the preceding year, adjusted for expected tariff increases.
67.      Reducing Government consumption of utility services is, however, only
a small part of the Government's overall strategy to avoid the re-emergence of
arrears.  The most critical component of that strategy will be a rigorous
pursuit of fiscal stabilization. Rationalizing Government finances combined
with measures to streamline budgetary procedures and introduce cash management
into Government budgeting, is to be supplemented by the programs described in
this report to correct the structural operating deficits of PEs through inter
alia,  the correction of price  rigidities.   Finally,  policies  to  control
overall  levels of investments  in the PE sector,  to close PEs where the
reduction of operating deficits is not feasible and to remove many PEs from
State ownership and control are all directed at ensuring that arrears do not
begin to accumulate.
E.    Intitutional Reforms to Foster Admnistrative and MbaagerIai  Autonomy and
Efficiency
68.      In order to increase enterprise efficiency, the program to reform PEs
calls for the introduction of competitive and equivalent forces. For sectors
with competitive structures, the enterprises will be subject to market forces
through  price  liberalization  measures  mentioned  in  para.  58  above.   In
monopolistic and non-competitive sectors, such as public utilities, in the
absence  of  market  competitive  forces,  enterpries  will  be  induced  to



- 24 -
continuously pursue efficiency through the obligation on them to set clear
objectives, develop performance indicators to quantify the achievement of the
objet  ,es, implement management information systems to measure the progress
in achieving the objectives and make them more transparent, and reward or
penalize enterprise management on the basis of the degree to which the
objectives were achieved. This performance-setting and evaluation system is
expected to encourage continuing efforts by monopolistic enterprises to
increase efficiency.
69.      At present, Morocco does not have a generalized system or procedures
to establish PE objectives and monitor enterprise economic, financial and
operational  performance.    The  most  urgent  reform  is  to  allow  more
administrative and managerial autonomy to competitive and monopolistic
commercial PEs while strengthening the Government's ability to oversee their
activities and to monitor their performance. The Government will pursue this
objective by focusing the functions of Government institutions on strategic
development,  policy matters,  major  investment  decisions,   and  performance
evaluation, while shifting the responsibility for current organizational and
operational   decisions   and   investment   implementation,   to   enterprise
management.  To this end, the reforms described in the sections below are
envisaged.
(a)   Rationalizing Government/PE Relations
(i) Contract-Programs
70.      Government/PE dialogue on the performance objectives and programs of
PEs presently occurs during the discussion of their provisional annual
budgets. Under the reform program, Boards of Directors of major PEs will
require them to define both long range and annual programs to indicate their
physical, socio-economic and financial objectives, and any environmental
impact these might have.  The above programs will establish target values for
key internal indicators such as economic and financial ratios, rates of return
on  fixed  assets,  employment,  and  capacity  utilization  levels.   When
implementation of the program requires financial or other assistance from the
Government, the program will be formalized in a document (contract program)
agreed between the State and the enterprise, stipulating the mutual
obligations  of  the  parties  regarding  these  programs.   Under  the  reform
program, the Government will renegotiate its present contract program with the
national airline RAM, and establish new contract programs with ONE, ONEP,
ONCF, SAMIR, SCP, and SNPP.   The Bank has  reviewed drafts of  the above
contract programs. The signing of contract programs with SNPP and ONEP will
be a condition of loan effectiveness; signing of the remaining four contract
programs will be a condition of second tranche release. During the first year
of project implementation the Government will also carry out an analysis of
the experience with contract programs with a view to their extension to other
appropriate enterprises. It is the intention of the Government to develop a
system of tangible rewards and penalties for successful and delinquent
management of all enterprises as it gains experience in administering this new
instrument.



- 25 -
(0i) Revitalization of CIPEP
71.      Under the reform program, the Interministerial Committee for Public
Enterprises and Participations (CIPEP), which is chaired by the Prime
Minister, will be strengthened by clearly identifying its functions, better
defining  its  operating  criteria,  and  endowing  it  with  a  Permanent
Secretariat. CIPEP's main functions will be as follows:
(a) formulate general strategy on overall PE investment, financing,
tariff setting and wage and salary policy;
(b) advise on the acquisition and divestiture of holdings by the State or
public entities;
(c) provide guidelines for the privatization or reorganization of
specific PEs;
(d) recommend and approve reforms and improvements in State/PE relations;
(e) monitor the results of the PEs performance as a whole;
(f)  oversee the execution of PE  restructuring  programs  including  the
program to clear arrears and prevent their recurrence;
(g)  arbitrate disputes that may arise between PEs; and
(h) advise on the composition of BODs, their members to represent the
Governments and the appointment of their chairmen.
72.      CIPEP  will  operate  through  specialized  sub-committees  to  study
specific problems, such as terms of PE employment and PE restructuring. Its
permanent secretariat will be the existing Department of Public Enterprises
and Participations (DEPP), which will be adequately staffed with qualified
professionals to fulfill this additional function. DEPP's role as Secretariat
will include supporting the activities of CIPEP and its sub-committees as well
as preparing and presenting to CIPEP queries and proposals by PEs and their
parent  ministries.   A  Prime  Ministerial  directive  establishing  CIPEP's
functions has been issued.
Oi)  Reform of BODs
73.      Reforms affecting the role, operating methods and composition of the
BODs will require time and careful study since their design is conditioned by
the existing legal framework and by the divergent operational nature of the
sector.   The  reform process has commenced with the issuance by the Prime
Minister of a directive to all the parent Ministers on the composition and
functioning of the BODs of the enterprises in their portfolio, designed to
ensure that Ministers' involvement in the BODs follows clear and appropriate
guidelines for intervention on policy matters, and does not extend to day to
day enterprise management. The directives specifies that BODs should contain
members experienced in management or the field of business of the concerned
PE. After the first year of project implementation, when experience has been
gained from the operation of the directives, a study will be carried out,



- 26 -
according to TOR agreed upon with the Bank, to review the present role and
organization of BODs and streamline their relations with the parent ministries
and the enterprise management. This study will lead to the development of a
program of action to implement possible reform measures, including possible
new legislation.   The Government would discuss the above program of action
with the Bank.
(rv) Reorganization of the DEPP
74.      The establishment of new objective-setting and performance monitoring
procedures, the replacement of a priori audits with ex post monitoring
activities in commercial PEs and its selection as the Permanent Secretariat of
the CIPEP, call for a redefinition of the functions of the DEPP and
strengthening its staff.
75.      The loan will assist the reorganization of DEPP through the following
actions:
(i)  improvement of staffing - a study, completed in January 1986, has
defined the organizational and staffing needs of the DEPP emphasizing
portfolio management expertise as the main staff qualification rather
than formal accounting.
(ii)  establishment of a public enterprise data  system  -  to  draw  on
information provided by the PEs and other sources on the economic,
financial, labor, and legal matters affecting the PE sector to assist
concerned ministries in PE monitoring.
(iii)  staff  training  -  focussing  on  strengthening  the  skills  of  the
existing financial comptrollers and accountants to enable them to
effectively monitor the performance of the PE portfolio.
(b) Inprovement of PE ManagementInformationSystems
76.      Accounting and auditing procedures for public and private enterprises
at large will be reformed along the lines outlined below. For commercially-
oriented PEs, the DEPP will progressively replace the current system of a
priori control of commitments and expenditures by its financial comptrollers
and accounting agents with a posteriori checks, exercised through a reporting
system based on reliable accounting and management information and appropriate
auditing procedures.
77.      Adequate  Government  performance  monitoring  will  depend  on  the
establishment or improvement of management information systems (MIS) in PEs .
As an initial step the Government will ensure that the 12 selected enterprises
hire appropriate consultants and procure the equipment required to establish
their MIS according to the results of a study financed under a PPF and already
completed.   The MIS will be designed and installed also to generate  the
information which is required by Government agencies, such as the DEPP itself,
the parent ministries, the Ministry of Plan and the Bank of Morocco, to
monitor development trends and performance of the individual enterprises and



-27 -
the overall PE sector.  The MIS will be based on the following elements:
general accounting, cost accounting, budgeting, financial planning, and
performance indicators.
78.      The  cost  of  establishing/improving  their  MIS,  including  staff
training, will be borne entirely by the enterprises with no specific financial
assistance from the Government. The Bank will, however, finance a new study,
to be carried out by the DEPP with the help of consultants, to assess the
status and need for establishing or improving the MIS of an additional group
of 12 enterprises to be identified during the first year of project
implementation.
(c) Improvement of General Account!gg and Auditing Principles and Praetices
79.   The success of new objective-setting procedures and effective government
monitoring of PE activities depends on the availability of reliable and
uniform accounting systems and the introduction of appropriate auditing
practices.  At present this  is hampered by  the absence of a modern and
generally recognized accounting system and of an appropriate framework for the
auditing  profession.   Moreover,  there  are  shortages  of  well  qualified
accountants and auditors, in the country.
80.      To address the above shortcomings, the Government will carry out the
following actions:
(i)  Prepare  a  new  National  Accounting  Plan.   The  Plan  will  define
uniform,   minimum   standards   for  accounting  and  auditing.   A
Commission, assisted by experts financed under the French bilateral
assistance program, has already prepared a new draft legislative and
regulatory framework, which is being reviewed by all interested
parties in the public and private sectors and will be submitted to
the Government for approval at the beginning of 1988;
(ii)  Establish   a   National   Institute   of   Certified   Accountants.
Representatives of the accounting/auditing profession have prepared
draft legislation specifying the required qualification and training
standards of certified accountants and auditors and defining their
legal responsibilities. The proposed legislation will be submitted
to Parliament for approval at the beginning of 1988;
(iii)  Introduce independent external audits to commercial PEs.  As part of
the proposed reform of the existing control system of commercial PEs,
the Government will require these enterprises to have their accounts
audited annually by qualified auditors.   External  audits  of  the
enterprises selected for the introduction of MIS will be made,
starting in 1987. The introduction of audits in other PEs will be
carried out subsequently as further MIS and a posteriori monitoring
practices are introduced.
(iv)  Establish a degree program for accountants and auditors.  A draft
decree has been prepared outlining the relevant curricula and basic



- 28 -
educational  requirements  for  certified  accountants.   The  program
would combine three years of course work straddling three years of
internship training in private firms or in PEs. A fourth year will
be devoted  to thesis preparation.   The  proposed  decree  will  be
submitted to the Government for approval at the beginning of 1988;
(v)  Prepare a training program in accounting and auditing for the staff
of PEs and the DEPP. A preliminary assessment of the training needs
of the 12 PEs selected for the introduction of MIS and the DEPP shows
that to upgrade the skills of their professional and mid-level
financial staff will require about 120 man-months of instruction for
basic training and 50 man-months of instruction for refresher
programs. Additional 70 man-months of instruction will be required
for training the operators of computerized MIS and will be provided
by the suppliers of hardware. The training needs of these PEs and
the  DEPP  would  be  addressed  through  the  preparation  of  a
comprehensive training program which will include the identification
of the most appropriate institution(s) and framework to deliver it in
the most cost effective fashion.
F. Policies a Measures to Rationalize te Role of the State in the
81.      Under this component of the reform, the Government would develop and
implement comprehensive programs to restructure non-performing enterprises,
liquidate those which cannot be made economically viable, and disengage the
State from activities which can be effectively carried out by the private
sector. The principles for PE restructuring will aim at an initial ranking of
interventions among non-performing enterprises prior to the definition of
programs  that  would  restructure,  merge  or  liquidate  such  PEs.   The
privatization strategy and program will aim at identifying optimal procedures,
targets, and schedules for the progressive disengagement of the State from
economic activities which can be more appropriately carried out by the private
sector. The Bank will assist the Government to achieve the above objectives
through actions designed to improve the knowledge of the present portfolio of
enterprises, prepare studies for the restructuring of key economic sectors
dominated by the presence of PEs, and implement privatization programs and
actions. These three basic measures are discussed below.
(a)   Inventory of the State Portfolio of PEe
82.      An  inventory is under preparation which will  provide a reliable
picture of the identity of each PE including its legal structure, capital
structure, links to the State, type and sector of activity, localization of
main  activities;  the  characteristics  of  its  markets   such  as  captive,
competitive, domestic, foreign; the worth of its assets at book and market
value; its financial position and performance; its impact on public finances
through  subsidies  and  dividends;  and  its  socio-economic  role  through
employment generation and  regional development.   The  inventory  will  also
provide a general assessment of the restructuring needs of the enterprises
such as in organization, marketing and production; their potential for



- 29 -
privatization through complete divestiture, sale of shares or leasing; and the
constraints to be overcome for the implementation of both restructuring and
divestiture programs. The inventory is being prepared with the assistance of
international consultants.   Discussions with the Bank of the result of the
inventory and the definition of a detailed privatization strategy and programs
will be a condition for the release of the second tranche of the loan.
(b) 2sFtructuring Studies
83.      Restructuring  feasibility  and diagnostic  studies  to be  conducted
under this loan will cover the mining, sugar refining and transport sectors
which currently absorb sizeable amounts of Government funds. The studies will
include detailed programs for the rehabilitation, liquidation or privatization
of poorly performing PEs.
84.      In the mining sector, a thorough diagnostic analysis is planned for
BRPM and its affiliates, leading to the preparation of a restructuring plan.
Terms of reference for the work to be performed by an international consultant
have been discussed in detail with BRPM, the Ministry of Finance, and the
Ministry of Mines. The analysis would be in three parts and will recommend
steps to: (i) adapt BRPM's geological survey work to the economic relevance of
the mininRg sector while enhancing its ability to attract private investment;
(ii) improve the prospects for its affiliates for merger or privatization; and
(iii) define which affiliates should be closed and the legal, social and
financial measures which should accompany the actions taken.
85.      In the sugar sector, a restructuring program will be designed within
the framework of gradual deregulation of the industry.   The program would
provide incentives for greater efficiency and productivity, simplify the
process of setting prices and allocating resources, and allow uneconomic farms
to switch to other crops. The program would lay the basis for the closure of
uneconomic processing units, and spur ongoing actions to privatize the sugar
mills.
86.      In the transport sector, a development and policy  study will be
financed under the Fourth Highway Loan (No. 2254-MOR) to propose a strategy
for  deregulation  of  transport.   This  would  include:   (i)  defining  the
Government's deregulation options for the transport sector over the next 5
years, (ii) evaluating each option based on its impact on unit transport costs
and  tariffs,  and  (iii)  elaborating  an  optimal  strategy  to  implement
deregulation policies.
87.      During implementation of the project,  the Government and the Bank
will hold discussions on the results of the above three studies, and on plans
for implementing their recommendations. The release of the second tranche of
the loan is to be contingent on completion of the mining sector study and the
first phase of the transport study. The sugar sector study has been already
completed.



- 30 -
(c) Disenaement of the State from Productive Economic Activities
88.      The Government  is publicly committed  to the continuation of  its
privatization program. It will proceed on a case by case basis, to include
those in which the State has direct or indirect minority participation.
Particular  attention  will  be  paid  to  enterprises  operating  in  the
manufacturing sector. State owned holding companies, such as ODI, SNI and
CDG, will also develop restructuring and divestiture plans of their
manufacturing holdings in harmony with the general Government program.
89.      The Government also recognizes that the institutional, financial and
business environment would have to improve to create conditions conducive to
successful privatization actions.   This  requires:  (i)  the  introduction of
regular audits of PEs and the definition of a clear policy regarding the
payment of dividends, taking into account the specific nature of each sector;
(ii) the progressive deregulation of sectors planned to be privatized (prices,
monitoring, regulations); (iii) measures designed to develop the capital
market (taxation, legislation authorizing the issuing of new financial
instruments); and (iv) measures to create a brokerage profession.
90.      Assistance for the creation of conditions for effective privatizaticni
and the implementation of critical privatization actions will include advice
on  administrative  and  legal  aspects,  the  organization  of  packages  of
enterprises, and the identification of an optimal form of privatization.  It
also will  include advice on measures  to  create  conditions  conducive  to
privatization such as removal of price controls, deregulation, stimulation of
the stock market, introduction of new financial instruments and promotion of
brokerage institutions. The proposed technical assistance is to be provided
by appropriate individual experts and/or by a merchant bank.
(d)   Restructuring Progoams for Selected PES
91.      To  spearhead  the  introduction  of  PE  reforms  in  Morocco,  six
enterprises, namely, ONE, ONEP, ONCF and three enterprises operating in the
petroleum sector, will be restructured under this loan, with reforms to be
introduced that will change policies governing their management, financing,
arrears, pricing, investment planning and selection, and accounting and
auditing procedures. In addition, a number of measures at enterprise level
will be taken that are supported by ongoing and proposed Bank operations.
92.      In  the  case  of  ONE  (the  national  power  company),  the  actions
envisaged under the loan will focus on enabling ONE efficiently to meet the
rising demand for electricity.   Per capita consumption of electricity in
Morocco is among the lowest in the EMENA region, and will have to grow to
support economic expansion. Undependable rainfall, and the erratic nature of
international fuel oil and coal markets on which Morocco has to rely for its
thermally generated power, make electricity investment planning difficult.
The problems are exacerbated by the lack of internal coordination in Morocco
between ONE and the Regies which distribute most of the power, divergencies
between the tariff and the marginal costs structures, and an unclear framework
for the evaluation of multi-purpose hydro-projects.   Specific restructuring
actions for ONE will therefore concentrate on improving coordination within
the sector, initiating studies of a least-cost investment program to meet
future needs, and increasing tariffs to enable ONE to cover a substantial
share of its investments.



- 31 -
93.      The position of ONEP (the national water supply company) is similar
to  that  of  ONE.   It  too must  cope with  rising  demand,  and  will  be
hard-stretched merely to maintain existing service levels through which about
832 of the urban population has access to safe water, 63% through house
connections. Urban population growth of at least 3.52 per year will require
ONEP to implement a large investment program to produce, transport and supply
water in bulk to the urban communities, including a new major water conveyor
to the Casablanca area to be built between 1988 and 1991.  Under the loan
appropriate tariff measures will ensure a rising self-financing capability for
ONEP.   Like ONE,  ONEP suffers  from  the  lack of coordination within  the
subsector, especially in the division of responsibilities with the Regies -
which distribute both electricity and water in the urban areas.   These issues
of coordination will be addressed under a National Water Supply Rehabilitation
project,  the  negotiations  of  which  have  been  recently  completed.   The
establishment of high level coordinating bodies and the study of optimal
institutional arrangements will be undertaken in the latter operation, as will
improvements to the management and operation of the Regies.
94.      A different set of circumstances confronts ONCF (the national railway
Company) although it, too, faces a major investment program for track and
rolling stock replacement needed to maintain service capability and improve
technical performance.   Future demand for railway services will depend on
ONCF's ability to compete in a deregulated transportation market.   It has
shown considerable commercial astuteness, even under present circumstances of
limited autonomy, with its development of highly profitable short-haul, closed
circuit haulage of special freights, and rapid transit inter-urban passenger
service.  It has also moved towards operating more at arm's length with its
major  customer,   OCP,   the  phosphate  mining   and   exporting   company.
Restructuring actions are designed to continue these initiatives. Under the
loan, ONCF is eventually to be given full responsibility to set its own
tariffs so as to cover its costs and generate surpluses for investments. The
contract program to be established between the Government and ONCF will
contain explicit provisions to enable ONCF to move towards financial
autonomy. In addition, the Bank will assist the Government to proceed towards
a progressive deregulation of the transport sector thus fostering competition
between the railway and other transport modes such as buses and trucks. Steps
will be taken to ensure that a transport development and policy study proceeds
as already agreed with the Government, and that the Government will announce
the steps by which deregulation will take place.
95.      The three PEs in the petroleum sector which are to be restructured -
SAMIR, SCP and SNPP - face very different problems.  Overall, demand for
petroleum products is barely growing (2% per year), but the situation varies
for individual products. LPG has been growing strongly because of deliberate
policies designed to encourage its use instead of the wood and charcoal now
being used in many households. Gasoline demand is essentially stable, because
of high prices, and fuel oil consumption could drop by as much as 20S if coal
is substituted for it in power generation. The refineries which now operate
at only 601 of capacity may have to reduce throughput even further under these
circumstances. Moreover, there is a significant and growing imbalance between
the structure of internal petroleum product demand and the product mix being



- 32 -
produced by the local refineries. This is exacerbated by the variance between
the structure of international petroleum product prices and the prices set
domestically for ex-refinery output.  Finally, the ability of these companies
to respond in a commercial manner to changing market conditions  has  been
hampered by the growing burden of arrears.  The restructuring actions will
concentrate  on  handling  these  arrears  which  now  bind  the  three  PEs
financially, and on studying the pricing and supply of petroleum products with
a view to'giving the companies greater flexibility while optimizing the supply
of petroleum products to Morocco.
96.      Detailed financial projections have been made for ONE, ONEP and ONCF
based on the proposed investment programs, tariff levels, and accounting
standards  proposed.   They  show  that  ONE  achieved  the  ability  to  cover
operating and maintenance costs without recourse to Government financing in
1986, while ONCF is expected to reach that point after 1990. ONEP will need
government support for its investment programs if it is to keep tariffs low
enough to make water affordable to most urban dwellers. Detailed projections
have not been undertaken for the petroleum enterprises because of the
uncertainties surrounding the future levels of prices, and the requirements
for  investments.   For  the  immediate  future,  the  refineries  will  face no
financial difficulties as the pricing system provides them with sufficient
resources, but the distribution companies are strained as distribution margins
are too low.   The studies in the petroleum sector are intended to address
these issues.
G.   PERL Justification and Risks
97.      The adjustment of the PE sector is a critical component of Morocco's
medium-term  recovery  and  development  strategy.   This  loan  will  provide
technical and financial support to rationalize the role of the State in the
economy and improve the operating efficiency of selected PEs.
98.      The  promotion  of  financial  autonomy and  accountability,  and  the
introduction of programming procedures and contract programs will serve to
streamline the respective functions of the State as owner or shareholder and
the PE management as operator.   The progressive disengagement of the State
from commercially- oriented activities should result in a more responsive
operational    environment    with    greater    reliance    on    decentralized
decision-making. Properly appraised and economically viable operations should
raise returns on investment. Reforms in the Government's budgeting procedures
will ensure greater consistency among the allocation of resources, the future
demands of the economy, and medium-term development objectives.
99.      At the enterprise level,  the improvement of management information
systems, accounting and auditing will strengthen managerial decision-making
and  increase  the  transparency  of  operations.   The  specific  restructuring
programs and studies supported by this loan will help PEs adapt to an
environment which is increasingly subject to market forces.
100.     Reform of pricing policy, the elimination of arrears, and greater
financial autonomy for the PE sector will have positive effects on both the
macro-economic   performance  as  well  as  the  performance  of  individual



- 33 -
enterprises. Setting output prices at levels which reflect the true scarcity
value of the goods or services provided by PEs should serve to monitor
efficiency gains and to check unrestrained growth of overall domestic demand,
while achieving a more efficient deployment of productive resources. Arrears
clearance and the prevention of future arrears will help improve budgetary
discipline, reduce Government consumption of public services and thereby
contribute  to  the  goal  of  macro-economic  stabilization.   Finally,  the
increased financial autonomy of PEs will help to enhance their internal cash
generation and reduce their budgetary dependence, thus improving Government
savings and reducing claims on credit to the economy.
101.     The  incremental  impact  of  the  reform  program  on  the  broad
macro-economic aggregates during the 1987-88 period is expected to be as
follows: (i) the Government budget deficit should decline by DR 2.5 billion
as a result of reduced transfers to public enterprises and higher tax and
dividend revenues accruing to the Treasury; and (ii) the current account
deficit should decline by US$ 7.5 million. Moreover, inflation is expected to
fall owing to productivity gains in the major PEs and the deflationary impact
of eliminating arrears, and employment is projected to grow as a result of a
reallocation of real resources in line with the country's comparative
advantage in relatively labor-intensive activities.
102.     Project risks are essentially financial and institutional in nature.
A re-emergence of the arrears problem through an inability of the Government
to meet its commitments for investment budgetary transfers or to pay for its
consumption of PE output is the main financial risk.  It will be mitigated
through: (i) the pursuit of a satisfactory fiscal stabilization program
throughout the 2 year duration of the loan disbursement period; (ii) the
implementation of an arrears settlement scheme; (iii) the establishment of
realistic budgetary appropriations for the payment of obligations due and
expenses incurred by the Government; (iv) the institution of mechanisms that
promote price adjustments to reflect economic costs; (v) the implementation of
restructuring programs of economically viable PEs; and (vi) the formulation
and implementation of policies and programs to decrease the weight of the PE
sector in the economy through State disengagement and privatization actions.
103.     The  main  institutional  risks are  that existing vested interests
within governmental institutions will resist the measures aimed at reforming
the current situation whereby the Tutelage Ministries interfere with PE
management and the Ministry of Finance exercises ex ante controls over
critical PE activity. This risk is mitigated through the reactivation of the
CIPEP which will promote the appropriate expression of ministerial interest in
PE matters. The replacement of ex ante controls by ex post monitoring will be
supported   by   appropriate   accounting   practices,   independent   auditing
requirements and contract programs.
104.     The capacity of existing Governmental institutions to implement a
broad-ranging and complex reform, while monitoring the implementation of many
enterprise  restructuring programs,  will be strained.   This  risk has been
addressed through the organization of specialized task forces, assisted by
consultants, to help government agencies in implementing each of the tasks
envisaged under the reform program.  It should, however, be recognized that
full achievement of the PE reform can only be accomplished in the
medium-term.



- 34 -
PART V - THE BANK LOAN
(a)   Disbursement
105.     The loan, in an amount of US$240 million equivalent will finance
sectoral policy reform, enterprise restructuring and technical assistance.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1989.
106.     A component  of US$ 117 million will support policy actions and
overall reform measures that the Government will undertake for the entire PE
sector. Disbursement will be made against foreign exchange expenditures
related to eligible general imports.  Ineligible imports will include goods
financed from other sources, goods intended for military or paramilitary use,
and goods for luxury consumption. A further US$ 117 million will support
actions that the Government will undertake to implement the envisaged reform
measures in the six selected enterprises, as well as to address some of their
organizational,  financial and operational  problems.  Disbursements will be
made against foreign exchange expenditures (spare parts for ONCF, chemicals
for ONEP, coal for ONE, crude oil for SMIR and SCP, and LPG for SCP and SNPP)
of the six PEs to be restructured under this loan.   Disbursement  against
petroleum products will be limited to US$60 million of the total allocated to
the  six  PEs.   Six  million  dollars,  including  the  refinancing  of  a
US$1.25 million PPF advance approved by the Bank on September 10, 1986, will
finance consulting services required to support the implementation of the
reform measures, restructuring actions and studies. Annex VI contains details
of Technical Assistance and Training activities to be financed under this
loan.   The Ministry of Finance  (DErP) will bear  financial and technical
responsibility for the component. Disbursement will cover 1002 of all foreign
exchange expenditures for imported goods, 1001 of total expenditures for both
foreign and local consultants' services, as well as 100% of the foreign and
80% of the local expenditures for the purchase of the hardware required for
the development of DEPP's public enterprise information system.
107.     Disbursement of the loan proceeds for general and enterprise imports
will  be  made  in  two  tranches  totalling   US$120  and  US$114  million.
Disbursement against general imports will be US$70 and US$47 million in the
first and second tranches, respectively; those for enterprise imports US$50
and US$67 million.  Disbursements of the TA component will be carried out
throughout the disbursement period according to the pace of TA expenditures.
108.     Applications  for  withdrawals  from  the  loan  account  will  be
consolidated and submitted in amounts of not less than US$1 million, with the
exclusion of the TA component fox which smaller withdrawal applications will
be accepted.  In view of the progress made by the Borrower in implementing
significant aspects of the envisaged reform program, the Bank will provide
retroactive financing to March 1, 1986 of eligible expenditures up to a
maximum of US$24 million. A Special Account (revolving fund) for general and
PE imports and TA will be established in the Bank of Morocco, to which the
Bank will make initial deposits of up to US$50 million. The revolving fund
will be replenished against withdrawal applications at monthly intervals, or
as appropriate, when their individual undisbursed balance falls below US$20
million. The closing date of the loan will be June 30, 1989.



- 35 -
(b)   Procurement
109.     Contracts for the procurement of imported goods by the private sector
estimated to cost less than US$5 million will be awarded on the basis of the
normal procurement practices of the purchasers, which are generally based on
price quotations obtained through international commodity markets.   Imports
under US$5 million by public sector entities, including the six selected
enterprises, will be procured in accordance with government LCB procedures
which are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the
execution of the project and will be applied in such a manner as to be
acceptable to the Bank.. Contracts for all other goods, public and private,
estimated to cost US$5 million or more each, will be procured through
international competitive bidding, with simplified advertising and currency
provisions, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Procurement of coal, crude
oil and LPG will be carried out on the basis of the normal procurement
practices of the purchaser. In particular, coal procured by ONE is based on
long-term existing contracts which have been reviewed by the appraisal mission
and found satisfactory. Crude oil procured by SAMIR and SCP is carried out
either under bilateral agreements with oil exporting countries, based on
prevailing market prices, or on the spot market through direct negotiations in
accordance with accepted industry practices. Goods of a proprietary nature,
such as computer equipment, may be procured under contracts directly
negotiated with the supplier. Contract for general and specific imports will
be grouped in bid packages of US$1 million or more each, to the extent
possible.
(c)   Monitoring and Tranche Release
110.     Bank   supervision   of   project   implementation  will   focus  on:
Xi) Government   progress   in  pursuing  appropriate   programs   of   fiscal
stabilization; (ii) the implementation of the PE sector rationalization
program as a whole and of the particular six PEs included in the project; and
(iii) procurement  supervision.   Loan expenditures  (including  Statements of
Expenditures) and the Special Account will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
111.     Release of the two tranches of the proposed loan will be contingent
on the achievement of the following conditions:
FIRST TRANCEE (loan effectiveness)
Release  of  the  General  Reform  (US$70  million)  and  Enterprise
(US$50 million) Components
- adjustment of ONCF tariffs;
- completion of cross-cancellation of arrears and issuance of bonds
required to settle Government net arrears to PE sector;
- signing of contract-programs for ONEP and SNPP; and



- 36 -
- signing of consultant contracts for key studies, notably the
inventory and evaluation of the portfolio of PEs, the restructuring
program for BRPM, the definition of electricity tariffs and
establishment of a least-cost coordinated investment program for the
power subsector, the definition of potable water tariffs, and the
transport development study.
SECOND TRANCHE (about one year after loan effectiveness)
Release of the General Reform (US$47 million) and Enterprise (US$67
million) components.
- the Bank being satisfied with the overall progress achieved by the
Borrower in carrying out the PE rationalization program;
- allocation in the government budget for 1988 of amounts sufficient to
cover its water and power consumption during 1988 and limitation of
budgetary  transfers  for  investments   (payments   for   1987  and
allocations for 1988) to agreed levels for ONE, ONEP and ONCF;
- further adjustment of tariff of ONE, ONEP and ONCF, as appropriate;
- completion of the studies for the restructuring of the mining sector,
discussion of their results with the Bank and agreement on timetables
for implementation of agreed results;
- review with the Bank of the inventory and evaluation of the portfolio
of PEs and agreement on an associated recommendations for a
privatization strategy and program;
- completion of the first phase of the study on tariff structures and
levels for electricity and potable water and on the restructuring of
the transport sector, and discussion and agreement with the Bank to
implement results, as appropriate;
- completion of the study on price structure of petroleum products, and
discussion and agreement with the Bank to implement results as
appropriate;
- introduction of external audits in ONE, ONEP, ONCF, SAMIR, SCP and
SNPP; and
- signature of contract-programs for ONE, ONCF, SAMIR, and SCP.
PART VI - OTIHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
112.     Bank  Group  lending  to  Morocco, in support of 70 projects, has
totalled US$3013.4 million (net of cancellations) of which US$25 million were
from a third window loan. US$2,534.3 million are currently outstanding, of



- 37 -
which US$1,433.5 mi.llion are disbursed. These figures include IDA credits,
totalling US$45.2 million, which were made available for five projects until
1975.  Total  IFC  investments  amount  to US$94.5 million  in 12 operations
(US$90.4 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
Annex II contains a sulmmary statement of Bank Group operations as of September
30, 1986.
113.     In recent years, project implementation experience has been mixed.
While technical and management constraints within many project entities have
been overcome, shortages of budget funds since 1983 have hampered the
performance of those entities which rely on the Government budget for part of
their  project  financial  requirements.   Insufficient  budgetary  provisions
pertain both to investment and current Government expenditures. Combined with
rigidities  in  pricing  policy,   these  shortfalls  have  contributed   to
disappointing financial performance of project entities through a build-up of
arrears  to  private  contractors  and  to  public  enterprises.   Disbursement
results have largely reflected the above conditions, as well as the fact that
for much of the period 1984-86, appreciation of the Dollar vis-a-vis the
Dirham reduced project costs and therefore reimbursable expenditures in Dollar
terms. To alleviate budgetary constraints and improve project implementation,
Special Action Program (SAP) provisions were applied to 15 Morocco loans
during  this period.   This contributed  to  improving  the  ratio  of  actual
disbursements to appraisal estimates from an average of about 43b in 1984, to
54.3% in March, 1986 - close to EMENA Region averages. In FY86, total Bank
disbursements to Morocco were US$375.0 million, while repayments were the
equivalent of US$103.0 million.
114.     The overall objectives of the Government's medium-term strategy are
to restore sustainable growth rates and reduce the debt burden to manageable
levels.  The Bank's assistance strategy is to support Government  programs
which  contain  concrete measures  to:   (i) mobilize  resources,  particularly
increase  public  savings;  (ii)   improve  mechanisms  for  the  efficient
allocation, monitoring and use of public resources; (iii) promote exports and
efficient import substitution; (iv) enhance equity in the distribution of
economic  gains.   Such  support  implies  promoting  flexible  institutional
structures, enhancing the decentralization of decision-making, and creating an
environment which stimulates private sector investment and production. The
principal vehicles for supporting Government programs to promote stabilization
and structural adjustment  in the major economic sectors will be sectordl
policy operations.  They will form a large part of the Bank's assistance
program.   Given the resource constraints  imposed by fiscal stabilization,
investment proposals relying on the Government budget need to be carefully
scrutinized. There is, however, scope for (i) formulating investments which
redress imbalances in income distribution and in the access of the population
to public services, and (ii) financing the resource needs of private sector
enterprises and export industries which are being restructured so to operate
efficiently  within  the  new  trade  regime.   Viable  operations  financing
essential maintenance required to sustain essential service levels are also
included  in the strategy.   Project  lending will thus continue, albeit at
constrained levels similar to those characterizing the past three years of the
program.   The Bank's economic and sector work program has been designed to



- 38 -
provide the analytical basis for the structural reform programs in each of the
major sectors, and for subsequent  Bank lending  in each.   In addition  to
addressing key sectoral policy issues, economic and sector work contains
periodic reviews of the public investment programs to help the Government
allocate its scarce resources to high priority projects. The results of the
Bank's general macro-economic work, shared with members of the Consultative
Group for Morocco in March 1987, is being supplemented by special studies on
resource mobilization, on the employment situation and the impact of the
overall structural adjustment program on economic activity and on the poor.
Together with the IMF, the Bank intends to evolve a medium-term framework for
fiscal policies aimed at a broadening of the tax base and a rationalization of
public expenditures. A recurrent element of the macro-economic dialogue is
the evolution of a program to streamline and integrate investment planning and
budgeting, with emphasis on appropriate resource allocation and project
selection.   Sectoral  studies  in the Energy, Urban, Population, Health and
Nutrition sectors are expected to provide the basis for future operations in
these areas.
115.     The  Government's  constrained  resource  position  has  led  to  the
postponement of preparation of a new Development Plan.  Budget constraints
have limited investment expenditures essentially to the completion of ongoing
investments.  In these circumstances,  the Government's development strategy
has been modified to concentrate on policy reforms in major economic sectors
aimed at the transformation of the economy into a more efficient producer of
goods and services and with greater participation in international trade and
more reliance on the private sector.  Reforms have been introduced in the
Financial, Industrial and Trade regimes so as to improve resource use, change
incentives to realize the potential for export development and to promote
private and public savings.   The Agricultural  sector is being modernized
through a restructuring of the investment program and a re-orientation of
prices and incentives: support and delivery systems are being strengthened
and the capacity for sector planning, policy analysis and execution
reinforced. The Education system is being re-oriented to improve its balance,
quality and equity of access through the promotion of primary education and
vocational training; sectoral efficiency will be enhanced through measures to
reduce  unit  costs  and  curb  the  growth  of  budgetary  outlays.   In  the
recognition that the dependence of Public Enterprises on the Government budget
needs to decrease, the Government has decided to change the nature and scope
of its interventions in the public enterprise sector through the promotion of
financial, managerial and administrative autonomy of public enterprises as
well as a rationalization of the State's role in the economy.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
116.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
this loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
April 30, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 39 -
Poulation     21.4 million (196")                                                                                               of I
GNP Per Capita: USS 610 (I8)Page 1   J
un1t
(mitlon USS at                          6-ws Ok 3nal d
current   prices)__         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ __P                     i e  d
Indicator          Cu1L.                          13n1 132          1           11 -2                1      1n      I3     11
NATIONAL ACtlJWS
Gross dstic product s           11191               -1.2    6.8    2.2    2.1    4.3            5.7    3.8    4.4    3.9    4.3
Agricultu                     218"              -22.9   19.9   -3.7    -.3   12.1            15.0   10.0    8.0    3.5    3.5
Industry                      3776               -0.1    2.2    2.9   -1.1    2.3            8.3    4.3    6.2    5 5    5.9
Services                      5929                5.8    6.1    3.7    4.6    3.3            1.5    1.5    2.0    3.0    3.5
Cnnsrution                      10497                2.0    6.0    0.)    2.7    3.1            4.3    3.3    4.3    3.5    4.0
Gross investent                  2583              -11.2    6.8  -13.0    1.4    2.8            5.7    *.0    4.6    3.6    4.4
Exports of GNFS                 3184                 0.2    4.9    6.2    2.8    4.8            7.4    6.9    5.7    5.7    5.8
Igrorts of Glf                  437"                 1.9    3.1  -11.)    4.2   -0.3            2.1    4.1    5.3    4.0    5.0
Gross national savings           1330              -3S.1    4.0   24.7   -4.3   10.4           37.7    7.4    7.5    2.1   10.4
U=          ~                   im  im  mau nu  ma mt  JIM
GOP deflator (1980 a 100)    100.0  110.8  121.8  125.1  135.7  148.6  163.1
ExCbh#g rate (US$ per ONt)    .254   .193   .1"    .141   .114   .en    .106
are of 0P at lOt Prc0  5)                                 A      _       _
I  1~15  ure  a" Ml) ei             tat tenttant tO rie             Eat tenqt t 10 onricA.i
112*132    131    Jul   12    132                    JIZ*ZU    1973-*         MaU        jIug"      13"W
Gross doestic product                                                           4.9        5.5           3.0        4.3        4.8
Agriculture          19.9   17.9   18.1   15.7   18.5   18.5                -1.4        4.4           1.a        7.7        4.8
Idustry              27.0   35.2   32.3   ".9   32.3   34.1                  7.4        4.2           1.3        5.9        6.0
Services bi          53.1   46.9   49.6   E4.4   49.2   47.3                 5.6        6.4           4.7        2.3        4.0
Consumption             8S.5   85.1      .5   88.    t6.2   83.2                5.0       6.1            2.7        3.6        4.0
Gross investoent        18.5   25.4   22.6   16.9   16.8   19.9                13.0      -1.1           -3.1        4.2        8.4
Exports GlS             17.6   22.5   18.4   19.6   21.5   22.1                 0.0       4.9           4.5         6.2        5.4
Imports G1fS            21.6   33.4   29.4   24.9   24.5   25.1                 8.3       1.7          -1.2         4.2        5.4
Gross nat1enal savings   14.8   19.3   14.6   11.3   16.4   20.7               15.3       -4.4         -2.3        12.4        9.8
As f M8 P
im   inn   I=   nu   ma  im    ma
current revenes                            16.1     21.3     21.6      22.7     22.3      22.4     22.4
Current expenditures                       14.5     20.2     22.0      22.9     23.2     22.4      23.1
Current SurPlus 4* or deficit C-)d/         1.6      3.1    -4.4       -0.2     -0.9      0.0      -0.7
Capital expenditure                         5.7     12.2     11.2      13.1      8.0      6.4       4.2
Foreign financing                           1.1      3.7      4.8      7.2       4.7      4.8       2 9
m220n   IZ-M   1mf-sIm-9    ooe
QER TNO?CAThD
GNP growth rete (t)                        6.0       4.9      2.8       4.3      5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (5)              S.1      I.S      0.3       1.8      2.6
Enrgy consuwtion growth rate (5)           6.1       5.6      3.3      4.7       4.8
ICOR                                       3.0       4.1      5.9       3.9      3.8
Marginal svings rate                        S.0"    -0.15      .09      0.33     0.35
Import elasticity                           1.84     0.13    -0.39     0."       1.12
Li At market prices.
bi Knort taxes included in Servies.
Vi Projected Years at constant 190 pries.
Jf Cash basis.
s, Preliminary.                                                                                                         March 6. 1987
ENEMA Cplu
I0 39398 PI



- 40 -
Population        21.. million (1985)                                                                                 IUILL
C-P Per Capita:  US$ 610 (1985)                                                                                   Pke  2 of 2
Hwllte  - IEXUAL ThDE
Amount
indicator                (million US$ at                   Annual Crowth gates gwj (at Constant Ing aricssl
current prices)                    Aetual                              PreUt end
______________             ~~~19*5      13*1   1e2*   11*3   132*   1121/Ji           1h 12*1 1t9RJ2
Merchandise exports (FOB)           214S           2.9    0.8   11.0    4.3   -0.7       5-4    1.6    5.4    5.4    S.$
Primary products                 1243          -3.7  -11.S    6.3    3.4   -0.6       3.9    3.0    3.9    4.0    4.0
Phosphate rock                  47S          -S.6  -10.1    S.4    2.3    1.4       2.0    O.S    3.0    3.0    3.0
Others                          768          -2.3  -12.4    6.9    4.2   -0.1       5.3    4.6    4.5    4.6    4.6
Intermediate   manufactures       902          21.9   29.0   18.WS    S.     2.6      7.4    9.6    7.1    7.2    7.3
Merchandise imports (CIF)            3861          2.8    5.3   -8.0    7.9   -0.6       1.4    3.7    5.4    4.0    S.0
food                              S10          22.7  -18.6   -4.9   27.1  -19.9    -7.3    0.7    1.4    0.8    0.8
fuels                            1079          10.7   -1.9    1.1    S.2   13.9       1.7    2.0    4.8    3.1    3.8
Machinery and equipment           6S2          -7.7   29.4  -26.2    9.0  -12.1       4.0    S.0    7.4    4.3    S.1
Others                           1620          -S.0   12.2   *S.0    1.6    4.4       6.4    5.4    6.4    5.4    7.0
pRSCKS (1980 : 100)
Export price index                    .          120.7  124.8  13S.S  166.7  187.7   187.9  192.9  20S.1  214.0  223.9
Import price index                    .          130.1  142.9  1S3.4  190.5  21S.4   157.7  197.0  207.1  212.9  218.6
Terms of trade index                  .           92.8   87.3   88.4   87.5   87.1   100.1   97.9   99.1  100.5  102.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)                       Av.raa  Annual Inerpaga
Eat eurrent priemel           ttonstcnt 19*9 aries)       fCanstant 1080 pricail
11T    131   111  12* 131   IILU        iZ-m       i 11M-      A&S=1      I32LSI
Exports                                                                -1.3         7.0        4.4         5.5        S-.
Primary produets         86.9   74.4   58.0      S2.6    49.5       -2.8         5.4       -1.1         3.7        4.3
Intermediates &
-maufactures         13.1   2S.6   42.0      47.4    SO.S        7.9        12.7       15.8         7.8        6.9
Zoports                                                                 9.0         0.7        1.2         4.1        5.5
Food                     25.0   16.9   15.3      12.1     9.8       14.0         2.9       -0.8        -0.3         1.0
Petroleum                10.8   23.6   29.0      29.9    26.S        9.6         5.2        4.4         3.2        4.3
Machinery a equipment   24.0   18.9   14.9       14.6    17.7       12.8        -7.3        -3.0        7.1        9.7
Others                   40.2   40.6   40.8      45.4    46.0        5.3         2.8        1.6         6.0        5.7
Sh re of Trade with            Share of Trade with                Share of trade with
industriAl Comntries 1S1       Oeveleoinn  Countriac ill      rAojtta  SUralue Oil Ex_rtarei-
1168      13313                119*32               13*        136          113*           1111
DIRECTIO  OF TRAOE
Exports               72.3      73.7       76.S      27.7      2S.4       21.6         ..           0.9            1.9
Iqorts                76.7      74.9       72.9      23.3      25.1        8.3         ..            ..          18.8
i/ Preliminary
October lt. 1986
ErEA CPUS. 39398



- 41 -
Poulation        21.4 millin (198)                                                                                                            I
GNP Per Caita:  Ut 610 (1985)                                                                                                       PsI 1'9  '
MaimecoQ- imauci DF    lW L CAPIT*L AIM OM
(million USS at current price)
Indicator                                          ACtu*l                                               Preie te
im  im  im                      no m   Jul a,              nu  nu  m=  im  !M-
BaLAC OP PAMU?
Exports     ods aMd servces         4364    411    5843    3920    3926    4168                5014    5513   5998   6475    7733
Of which:    haf  dis f.o.b.   2414    2283    204U    2086    2161       2145              2392    2718    3195    3690    4283
iports of goods and services        5912    6095    5912    4888   5008      6140              5225    5603    6060    6659    7768
Of hich: tlhudise t..b. 1/ 3776    3840    38tS   t301    "69             3513              3652      974   4404    4708   6132
fet current trimsfers                128     102     169      94      84      114               170      186    216     233       96
Current account balace             -1420  -1861   -1899   -873    -997       -859               -41      97      103     -2   -1SO
let Direct Foreign Investmnt         109      73     102      47      51       20                68      75      82      91
official Grants                       97     313     124     142      16      300                16                -       -
80T loan  (Int)                     1036    1118    1339    251       98      127               259      71      182   -186    88
Official                          m      1041     724     322     333      222               581     243     28      2U    -456
private                           314      77    615   --71       465      -95              -122    -172   -106    -444   -432
Other caPItal (net) 2/                22     321     410     276     145      468              -226    -99   -150        175    1083
Change In reserves                   156      36    -76      157    -13       -56               -76    -144   -217       -78    -136
Intermtional reserves                814     510     540     376     266      345               421     S6      7       860       -
Of ehich:  0old                   415     280     322     269     21?      230               230     230     230    238      230
Reserves as mwths lports I/          .81     .45    .44      .26     .12      .27               .97     .72    1.09    1.14    1.2
EKTEAL CAPITAL AND DORT
Gross disbursnts                    1711    2053    2210    1022    1060      971
Official Grants                    97     313     124     142      16      300
Concessiosnl loans                761     889     522     203     188      178
AC                            o100     126      90      49      96      159
OmC                            684     746     401     115      9         6
IDA                              1       1       1       1       2        1
Other                           76      16      3o      37       0       13
lon-cncessional loans             854    851    154       677     856      493
Offitial exort credits          13      55     118      35       4       11
e                               64      99     134     174    275       307
Other multilateral              13    123       70      23      33       52
Private                        764     575    1241     444     545      123
Suppliers Credits             8      28      51       S      17       13
Financial credits 6 bonds   756    547    1190      436     528       10
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   7110    7951    8982   10153   106S     11230
Official                      3510    4386    4958    6528    6569     7179
private                       3600    3565   4804    3625    3986    4051
Undisbursed debt                 21sS    3187    2U2    3530    3206      3768
Ot service
Total service atmats             1193    1256    1326    1170    761      134
Intest                         614     633     579     540     515      490
Payuants Ss X exports of &S A/ 27.3   30.4   34.6   29.8   19.4    24.8
Aveae  interet rate en ta  loa    (%) 8.2       5.4    10.1    7.2      7.6      6.5
Official                             3.8     *.7     6.9     5.4    6.6       7.1
Private                             13.4   13.7   11.8   10.5   10.9    10.8
Average maturity ot naw loans (yars)  13.7    9.4    11.0   17.3    17.2        14.8
Official                            18.6   11.5   19.7   22.6   20.6         19.8
Private                              7.9    7.1      6.3    7.6      6.5      6.8
As I Of Debt flUtstandina at End of Neat Dacafit Year I naU
Mturity structure of debt u.stad1in
maturities due within 5 years                               52.9
Ibturities due within 10 years                              74.5
Interest structure of ebt outstanding
Interest due within first yer                                6.6
Preliminary.
3/ ProJected fiures are CIP.
2/   cluds financing gap.
1/ Ibserves mius gold/inerts of gods aNd -,rvices.
5/ After rescheduling; excludes D  servce paymts.                                                                             October 11. 1986
/ Services Include wresl rindttances.                                                                                            SIeA Ct 1-
ID 39398p2



- 42 -
Morm                                                                     mollEi&im  r mw  omitm
Au,,= a XMO
A. STaTEWIT O   AII LOrIS _M  IDA  lETSlt
(As of M1c  31. 1967)
Loan or                                                       unt (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              UZI Million
"uabrt   mear       Icrrir               ,bru,gm           tnk        DA      Un1disursnd
Thirty nine Loans fully disbursed                        1452.0S
five Credits fully disbursed                                        45.16
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          38.0                 0.33
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          S.0                 27.64
1661    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Edocation            86.0                 31.98
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    water Supply        49.0                  3.93
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture         44.0                  7.39
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          24.0                 4.1S
1943    1981    CtM                    Tourism            100.0                15.71
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Developmnt  20.0                    11.83
2004    1962    Kingdom of Morocco   Wiater Supply         87.0                53.51
2037    1962    35t                    WfC                 70.6                 16.20
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    OfC (551)            30.0                22.66
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          24.0                20.15
2109    1962    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                9.5                  6.12
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    forestry             20.5                 15.53
2114    1982    SNARrP                 Oil Shale            8.2                  0.82
2149    1982    Kindom of Mtrocco    Education             86.0                20.75
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agricultur           30.0                27.00
2245    1983    CIH                    Mousing Oevt.       60.0                 38.24
22S3    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          42.0                40.19
2254    1963    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways             76.6                54.81
2271    1983    OXAREP                 Oil Exploration    65.2                  12.59
2272    1963    Kingdom of Mbrocco    Village tnfrastr.  16.0                   9.77
2479    1965    Kingdom of Morocco    Voc.Training         27.1                 16.94
2487    1965    Kingdom of Morocco    glee.& Mec.tnd.    25.1                  20.61
2506    198S    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal Mo.   27.0                   24.02
252n   1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Helth                 28.4                26.40
2590    1966    Kingdom of Morocco    Agr.Sec.Adj.        100.0                 9.75
2656    1986    Kingdom of  oroco    Agriculture           46.0                46.0
2657    1986    Port Authority         Port of Casa.       22.0                22.0
2664    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Education           150.0                99.96
2731    1966    CNCA                   Agric. Credit      120.0                97.66
2779    1987    Kingdom of Morocco    Voe. Training*       22.3                22.30
Total                                              3009.95    45.16
of kuich has bee  repaid                          9R.Z       32.
Total now outstanding                              2425.26    41.76
A_nt Sold                         20.11
of wAich has be  repaid         20.11               0.0       0.0
Total now hold by Bank and IDA                     2405.17    41.76
Total undisbursed                                                         40.23
S. STATENET OF IfC ImE
(As of March 31, 1987)
DEUS Million
Fiscal  ear                                                  Lo a      aultm   Iotal
1965            frusat              Food & Food Processing   7.8                 7.8
1963/1978/1964   DDE                Oevlopment Sank          54.3      1.5      55.8
1976            Marrakech Cement   Cemnt factory               -       1.2       1.2
1977/1980       Temara Ceent        Cement Factory            2.0      3.4       5.4
1960            SOMIPER             Coper mining              4.3      2.3       6.6
1981/1983       Casablanca Ceent Cement factory             "a.       L2        5iL
Total comitments now hold by IFC                          61.3      10.4      91.7
Total Undisbursed                                                              1.5
not yet effective.
10.0479B p2
4/16/87



- 43 -
ANNEX m
page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)      Time taken to prepare reform program:   About 5 months
September 1985- January 1986
(b)      Appraisal mission                          February 1986
(c)      Completion of Negotiations                 March 27, 1987
(d)      Planned Date for Effectiveness             September 15, 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
By June 1988, the Bank will review progress in implementing the
reform.
Section III: Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of US$114 million would be contingent
upon:
(i) satisfactory overall progress in carrying out the PE rationalization
program;
(ii) the Government's having taken the following actions:
-  allocation in the Government budget for 1988 of amounts sufficient
to cover its water and power consumption during 1988 and
limitation of budget transfers for investments (payments for 1987
and allocations for 1988) to agreed levels for ONE, ONEP and ONCF;
-  further adjustment of tariff of ONE, ONEP and ONCF, as appropriate;
-  completion  of  the  studies for the restructuring of the mining
sector; discussion of their results with the Bank and agreement on
timetable for implementation of agreed results;



- 44 -
ANNEX III
page 2 of 2
- review with the Bank of the inventory and evaluation of the
portfolio of PEs and agreement on associated recommendations for a
privatization strategy and program.
- completion of the first phase of the study on tariff structures
and levels for electricity and potable water and on the
restructuring  of  the  transport  sector,  and  discussion  and
agreement with the Bank to implement resulta, as appropriate;
- completion of the study on the price structure of petroleum
products, and discussion and agreement with the Bank to implement
results as appropriate;
- introduction of external audits in ONE, ONEP, ONCF, SAMIR, SCP and
SNPP; and
- signature of contract-programs for ONE, ONEP, ONCF, SAMIR and SCP.



- 45 -
English translation                                                   ANNEX IV
of original text in                                                   page 1 of 4
French
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION
GOVERNMENT SrATEMENT OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POUCY
Cuwrent Eeonomic Situation
1.        For  a  number  of  years  the Moroccan economy has  suffered  from
unfavorable  conditions,  both  domestically  and   externally.    Successive
droughts, and a deterioration in the terms of trade have impeded growth and
have created strong pressures on both the public finances and the balance of
payments.   Since  1983-84 measures  have been taken to correct the overall
imbalances in the economy. The Government's readjustment and stabilization
programs have been supported by the World Bank and the IMF. These programs
are designed to promote reforms that will restore dynamism to the Moroccan
economy by alleviating the structural constraints from which it suffers. The
Government is aware of the difficulty of the structural problems facing the
economy and of the need to pursue the adjustment and stabilization programs in
the framework of a balanced economic growth. Under PERL, the programs already
implemented will be expanded to the public enterprise sector.
2.        Since 1983-84, the balance of payments deficit has been reduced from
11.32 of GDP to 8.1S, while the budget deficit has fallen from 8.12 of GDP to
its current level of 6.51.   Despite  these encouraging  trends, continuing
difficulties at the macroeconomic level call for an improved rationalization
in the utilization of resources.
3.        The Government's  structural  adjustment  program  for  the next few
years contains several  components.   On the one hand,  the ongoing reform
programs in the industry, trade and financial sectors will be pursued so as to
improve the allocation and utilization of resources, introduce new policies on
incentives, promote exports and encourage public and private savings. On the
other hand to promote the modernization of the agricultural sector the
investment program is being reexamined, prices and production incentives are
being reviewed, technical support and delivery services strengthened, and
planning and policy analysis reinforced. In addition, the education sector is
being reformed in order to improve its quality and effectiveness, reestablish
priorities and offer more equitable access to education to all.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
4.        The key elements of  the government's  stabilization program are:
fiscal reform and improved revenue collection, modernization of budgetary
procedures, clearance of the arrears of government entities, an increase in
public sector revenues through price increases and measures to enhance
efficiency, along with a reduction in expenditure through such measures as
limits on the growth of civil service salaries, rationalization of the public
investment program, limits on the money and credit supply and the maintenance
of real positive interest rates. These measures will enable to progressively
reduce the Government budget deficit.
5.        The public enterprise sector is of particular importance  to the
economy.  Created  originally  to meet various national objectives,  public
enterprises have played a significant role in the development of key sectors
and have contributed significantly to the development of agriculture, industry
and infrastructure.
6.        This sector therefore has a pivotal role in the Moroccan economy,
and its rationalization could contribute significantly to economic recovery.
7.        The rehabilitation measures implemented in the public sector have
revealed the existence of a significant amount of arrears between its various
components, which have affected the economy as a whole and impaired the
overall economic and financial equilibria. The Government plans to set up a
rehabilitation program aiming at the elimination of all existing arrears to
public enterprises and will implement the necessary measures to prevent any
recurrence of new arrears, and this in accordance with the terms stated in
Annex I.
8.        Therefore, the Government plans to examine under PERL the measures,
methods, and procedures of both the supervisory ministries and the enterprises
themselves, and to adapt their modus operandi so as to increase their
contribution to the stabilization and economic development programs. This
objective will be achieved by harmonizing public expenditures witn available
resources and by the introduction of public enterprise rationalization
programs.
The Pbi Etewiise Reform Program
9.        Aware  of  the  problem   affecting  the  public  enterprises,  the
Governmrnt initiated a reform program towards the end of the 1970s.  In 1978
the studies then carried out pointed to the need for a reform of public
enterprises to increase their efficiency and reduce their growing demands on
the State budget. An Interministerial Comittee chaired by the Prime Minister
was therefore set up in 1982 to define a strategy for public enterprise
development. Some investment programs were scaled down, and sources of



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
investment capital have been diversified. Measures to improve the monitoring
of public enterprises and to raise productivity were also introduced.
11.       In addition, a "Comite de Vigilance" was set up in 1984 to study the
problems caused by the arrears in the public sector, settle disputes between
creditors and debtors, and propose solutions to achieve their elimination.
Under the supervision of the "Comit6 de Vigilance", analyses have been made
for several sectors, such as energy, transportation, water supply, mining,
sugar, agriculture and post and telecommunications.
12.       In light of these studies, the Government implemented measures to
better control the administration's use of equipment and services. Similarly,
prices and tariffs of public enterprises have, on several occasions, been
increased. From 1983 to 1985, the average annual increase has been of 10.52
for railways (passengers and freight), 241 for water and 101 for electricity.
13.       With World Bank support, the Government wishes to build on these
measures and to implement a medium-term program to increase efficiency in the
sector. The program consists essentially of the three following elements:
14. (i) improved financial Performance.
This improvement would result from the greater autonomy and improved
financial  performance  of  enterprises  as  a  result  of:   (a) a policy of
adjusting prices of goods and services based on economic and financial
criteria and the optimization of production costs; (b) elimination of
unjustified State transfers to enterprises; (c) an increase in self-financing
by enterprises and in their recourse to long-term borrowing; and (d)
improvements in the planning, evaluation and monitoring of investments in
accordance with appropriate, precisely defined economic and financial criteria;
15. (ii)  clarification of the relations between the Government and public
enterprises.
This will be achieved by (a) redefining the roles of the technical and
financial Tutelary Ministries; (b) a redynamisation of the functioning of the
Board of Directors and a preliminary study aimed at their restructuration; (c)
increasing the responsibilities of the management of the enterprises; (d)
generalizing external audits and introducing modern management information
systems in order to improve the overall decision-making process; (e) using
performance indicators and implementing standard general and cost accounting
systems.
16.       The  supervision of  the Tutelary ministries  should  focus on the
elaboration of sectoral policies and the follow-up of Government decisions
concerning the various sectors, while gradually reinforcing the autonomy of



- 48 -
Alum XIV
Page 4 of 4
the enterprises.   In that respect, contractual agreements are being
envisaged between the Government and those PEs whose viable and
sound structure and organization allow for said agreements (e.g.
existence of general and cost accounting systems, audits, etc.). To
date, the Government has started discussions with six enterprises:
Societe Anonyme Industrielle Marocaine de Raffinage (SAMIR), Societ6
Chrifienne des Petroles (SCP), Societe Nationale des Produits
Petroliers (SNPP), Office National de l'Electricite (ONE), Office
National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP) and the Office National des Chemins
de Fer (ONCF). The Government is committed to sign two contract
programs with ONEP and SNPP beiore the effective date of this loan
and the four others before the release of the second tranche.
17. (iii) rationalization of the role of  the  State  vis_-vis  the  public
enterprises
This will be achieved through the development of appropriate sector
policies and the elaboration of a disengagement  strategy.   This  objective
implies the improvement of the existing institutional framework, and the
development of Morocco's capital market.   The Government will establish an
action program designed to strengthen existing institutions and establish
appropriate objectives and procedures to guide the implementation of the
disengagement strategy.
18.       The Government clearly regards these reforms as the first phase of a
rationalization process whose objectives can only be achieved in the
medium-term.   Specifically,  the  first  phase  is  designed  to  change  the
environmer.c within which PEs operate and to prepare a series of subsequent
sectoral restructuring programs. The Government is committed to achieve the
objectives set forth herein and to implement the measures elaborated in the
attached Annexes  and Matrices.   To  this end, the Government requests the
Bank's assistance in the financing of certain imports required by Morocco
during the execution of such programs.
S. E. Mohamed Berrada
Ministre des Finances



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment I
page 1 of 6
REHABILITATION OF THE FINANCIAL STRUCTURE OF THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
(i) Clearance of Arrears
1.        Clearing the arrears is a prerequisite for any rationalization of
the public enterprises.
2.        The   arrears  have  accumulated  as  a  result  of   insufficient
appropriations by governmental authorities and of delays in the payment of
investment  allocations  to  public  enterprises.   As  a  result,  the  public
enterprises have had to resort to additional financing from the banking sector
to cover the inadequate cash flow resulting from the build-up of government
and  local authority arrears.   This situation  has  of  course affected  the
financial stability of these firms.
3.        To remedy this situation, the Government, in July 1984, established
a Comit6 de Vigilance, whose structures were strengthened in June 1985 by the
addition of a Permanent Secretariat consisting of a Studies Division, a
Financial Division and a Division for the Rationalization of Government
Consumption. The main objectives of this committee are to prepare the arrears
matrix, control the evolution of the arrears, prepare sectoral studies to
propose rationalization measures to improve the management of the sectors
analyzed, and settle conflicts which may occur between creditor and debtor
public entities.
4.        The Comite de Vigilance prepared as of December 31, 1984 a matrix of
outstanding  and  unpaid  debts  between  the  central  government,   local
authorities, the Compensation Fund and the public enterprises. This matrix,
as updated to December 31, 1985, and to which a preliminary 1986 matrix has
been added, will serve as the basis for clearing the arrears.
5.        The  clearance  operations  will  be  undertaken  through  a  special
Arrears Settlement Fund which will be established before Apirl 30, 1987.
6.        The clearance operations will be completed in a two-stage process as
follows:
- First, the cross cancellation of all outstanding bilateral arrears
between the Government and Public Enterprises; and
- Second, the settlement of all outstanding amounts by the issuance of
short-term freasury bonds with a five-year maturity. From the beginning of
the third year, these bonds will bear and interest of 62 per annum.



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment I
page 2 of 6
7.        This settlement plan will be completed, at the latest, by July 31,
1987.
8.        The Government also commits itself to take the necessary measures to
prevent the creation of new arrears. To this end, the Government will adjust
starting in 1988, the amounts allocated in the Budget for Government
consumption of public enterprises outputs so that the amounts allocated
correspond to estimated consumption based on actual consumption of the
preceding year plus a price increase for goods and services provided by the
enterprise concerned.
9.        Similarly,  the  measures  taken by  the Government  to  rationalize
Government consumption will be pursued and reinforced to encourage more
savings and the institution of consumption norms which will facilitate a
better budget forecast in this area.
10.       As regards appropriations for investment, the limiting of Government
transfers to PEs, the improvement of the Government budgetary procedures, as
well as the introduction of the management information system, will enable
transfers to these enterprises to be adjusted to available budgetary
resources, and payment appropriations to be aligned with projections regarding
the physical execution of investment projects.
11.       A  general  action  program  must  be  undertaken  to  redefine  the
financial relations between Government and public enterprises, in order to
eliminate the causes of arrears. Furthermore, the measures taken to promote
self-financing by public enterprises, to limit budgetary transfers, together
with those designed to progressively desengage State from certain economic
activities in the public enterprise sector, should permit explicit adjustment
of public expenditures to the resources actually available.
(0i)  Fiscal PiY
12.       Considering the limited possibilities of budget financing,  it  is
important to increase public savings by limiting the growth of budget
expenditures and intensifying efforts to mobilize additional resources. The
Government has already taken measures to reduce the pressure on the budget in
the  agriculture  sector.   The  progressive  liberalization  of  prices  of
agricultural inputs will make it possible in the medium and long term to
eliminate the subsidies for the purchase of fertilizers.
13.       Likewise, a 5-year program aimed at increasing the recovery of all
operating costs plus some investment costs of irrigation networks will reduce
the budget costs of the subsidies given to the ORMVAS.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment I
page 3 of 6
14.       The  Government,  aware  of the relationship existing between  the
rationalization  of  budgetary  transfers  to  public  enterprises  and  the
restoration of public finances, has therefore announced its intention of
progressively reducing the dependence of commercial or industrial enterprises
on Governmental budgetary assistance. The Government will ensure that the
efficiency and productivity of the PEs are  improved.   Following a  review
process, the Government will allow PEs to set their prices so as to allow them
to break even in their operation, improve their cash situation and reduce
their dependence on Budget transfers.
15.       Government  contributions  to  the  financing  program  of  these
enterprises will be reevaluated and modified according to the individual needs
of  each  enterprise:    capital  increase,  Government  grants,  investment
subsidies. The remaining financial requirements of the investment programs of
these enterprises will be met from internally generated cash or borrowings
from the local or external market.
16.       Thus, in 1987 and 1988, actual disbursements for investmentl' to
the overall P.E.'s sector and, in particular, to ONE, ONCF and ONEP will be
limited to:
-(in DH millions)--
1987               1988
Total PEs              1305.7              1402
ONE                       0                   0
ONCF                    200                 200
ONEP                    212                 320
17.       Apart from ONE, ONEP and ONCF, two enterprises  (ONAREP and BRPM)
receive substantial budget trar.fers. The Government will carry out, in the
first year of PERL implementation, analyses on the justification for budget
transfers to these enterprises. In light of the conclusions of these studies,
which will be completed within 6 months of PERL's second year, the Government
will implement the necessary measures. Pending the results of these studies,
the amounts transferred to these last 2 PEs will be significantly reduced from
the 1986 level.
1/   The amount of actual disbursements will be specified in the budget of
each enterprise, after being duly approved by the appropriate authorities.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment I
page 4 of 6
l)    Pricing Pc
18.       The Government pricing policy of goods and services produced by PEs
exercising a state monopoly will be to:
- progressively adjust prices so as to allow the enterprises to cover
their operating costs, service their debt and contribute to finance
a significant part of their investments.
- limit budgetary transfers to equity contributions; and
- promote the efficiency and improve productivity of PEs.
19.       To better define its future pricing strategy and as part of the
definition of the relationships between State and PEs, the Government intends
to carry out studies on pricing policy in the water supply, electricity, and
railways  sectors.   On  the  basis  of  the  results  of  these  studies,  the
Government together with the enterprises, will, beginning in 1989, establish
tariffs based on the criteria detailed above, and taking into account the
financial objectives pertaining to each particular PE. The Government will
also ensure that, effective from 1987, the price increases applying to bulk
sales of electricity and potable water are passed on to consumers on the same
date.   These price adjustments do not  account  for  the possible  financial
rehabilitation measures which could be implemented under sectoral financial
restructuring programs.
20.       The possibility of introducing a flexible auto-review pricing system
will also be examined as part of the new Government pricing policy.
21.       Pending the results of these analyses,  the Government decided to
increase electricity prices 5Z, as of August 1986, in spite of the decrease in
energy prices, the optimal use of hydroelectric capacity, and the fact that
the high level of electricity costs which constitute an input for industries
have reached an exceedingly high level, thus harming competitive position of
local products vis-a-vis their foreign counterparts. This tariff adjustment
should improve the financial situation of the producer and the distributors of
electricity.
22.       It should be mentioned that electricity tariffs have been adjusted
at regular annual intervals; the following table shows the evolution of
average increase rates for ONE since 1980.
Increase of Electricity Tariffs
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    Average
262     26%     212      102     10%      10%    3.8%       151



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment I
page 5 of 6
23.      With respect to water tariffs, the Government has increased them by
102 in 1986. Water tariff a have already been increased substantially since
1982.
1982      1983      1984      1985       1986      Average
202       30X       21%       222        10%        212
24.       As  for  the  transportation  sector,  the  Government  declares  its
intention  to formulate a national transportation policy.  This study will
enable the Government to determine a strategy for transportation, specify the
possible measures to be implemented with a view to allowing all qualified
transporters to access the market as well as to provide users with a free
choice within the passenger/freight transportation sectors.   The Government
has implemented a 901 increase in 1986 for the passenger/freight traffic and a
4.5% increase for the phosphates traffic. this increase has enabled to ensure
the balance of the operating account of ONCF. It should be noted that railway
tariffs have been increased several times since 1981.
1982     1983     1984    1985      1986     Average
Freight         15      171       10%     6.62       9%       11.5%
Passengers      10      13S       10     6.62       92        9.72
25.       Pending the conclusions of the tariffs studies to be carried out,
and in view of the financial needs of the enterprises, their cost trends and
previous years' price increases, the Government is committed to the following
increases for 1987 and 1988:
1987        1988
ONE                                        51          5%
ONEP                                      10%         121
ONCF                                      101         101
These increases will take place during the first semester of each
year.  Increases projected for 1988 will be reviewed at the beginning of 1988
according to the evolution of inflation, the financial situation of the
enterprises and the level of attainment of their investment program in 1987.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment I
page 6 of 6
26.      Arrears clearance and price adjustments may be insufficient for some
enterprises to recover financially. When this is the case enterprises will be
financially rehabilitated as part of a financial restructuring program to be
agreed with the World Bank.
27.      As regards public enterprises operating in a competitive environment,
the Government will continue its progressive price liberalization policy
whenever market conditions make it feasible in order to improve productivity
and avoid distortions in resource allocation. With this in mind, new flexible
and systematic pricing methods have been introduced so as to progressively
deregulate the price of certain products.
(iv) Ilvestment Poliey
28.      The  Government  intends  to  review  the  machinery  of  planning,
programming and budgeting techniques to rationalize decision-making and adjust
budgetary expenses to available resources. An action program will be agreed
with the World Bank on the following objectives:
- improving programming and budgeting of current and equipment
expenses;
-  the implementation of better management techniques for the Treasury;
-  analysis of the medium-term investment program.
29.       The  Government  also  declares  its  intention  to  optimize  the
allocation of investment resources by directing investment funds exclusively
to priority projects which are economically viable.
30.       The significant share of public enterprises in gross fixed capital
formation means that their investment programs should be monitored to ensure
that they follow sector priorities and conform to the overall Government
policy.   To  this  end  the  Government  will,  for  all  public  enterprise
investments, maintain only those projects whose economic and financial rates
of return are acceptable, taking into account the nature of the project, the
opportunity cost of capital, and the fact that sources of financing can be
assured.



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment II
page 1 of 4
PROMOTING EFFICIENCY AND AUTONOMY IN PUBLIC ENTERPRIMES
1.        The Government declares its intention to improve the efficiency of
PEs and to clarify and rationalize relations between the State and public
enterprises.
hIproviug State/Public Enterm4se Relation
2.        The Government has decided to introduce a reform program with the
aim of:
-    clarifying and rationalizing the intervention of Tutelary ministries
towards public enterprises through the definition of a process
whereby decisions by the State (which is both shareholder and
supervisor) will be adopted and subsequently notified to the
management of each public enterprise;
-    rationalize State supervisory functions, enhance the autonomy and
increase the responsibilities of the enterprises and revitalize the
functioning of the Board of Directors.
3.        The program envisaged involves measures to reactivate the Permanent
Interministerial   Committee   for  Public   Enterprises   (CIPEP),   introduce
medium-term programming procedures, and progressively adjust the current
system  of  a   priori  control   of  all   strictly  managerial   decisions
(e.g., contracts, orders, etc.).
4.        CIPEP.   This  Committee,  chaired  by  the Prime Minister,  or his
designee, will consist of the main Ministers of the Economic Intervention
Ministries (D6partements d'intervention 6conomique), who will be either
permanent or ad hoc participants on the committee, and of any other
personality whose contribution is deemed useful to ensure a successful
coordination between the Government and all entities concerned by the reform
program of PEs.
CIPEP's role will be to:
-    formulate a general strategy for the public enterprise sector as
regards investment, financing, tariff setting and wage and salary
policy;
-    give  its  opinion  on  the  advisability  of  setting  up  public
enterprises, or of the State or public entities acquiring holdings,
and  also  on  the  terms  of  their  possible  privatization  or
restructuration;



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment II
page 2 of 4
- supervise the rehabilitation program as regards arrears of public
enterprises and take the necessary steps so as to prevent any future
build-up of new arrears;
- advise on appointments of State representatives within the Board of
Directors.
5.        CIPEP's Secretariat will be ensured by the Directorate of Public
Enterprises and Participations (DEPP) of the Ministry of Finance. It will be
responsible for preparing the meetings and examining documents given to it by
the Committee.
6.        Programming Procedure.  The Supervisory Minister will send to the
Chairman of the Board of Directors of each enterprise for which he is
responsible, a circular outlining the general strategy that the Government
expects the enterprise to follow. The terms of said circular will be defined
by the CIPEP.
7.        In the  light of  these general  guidelines,  each enterprise will
prepare  a  multi-annual  program  defining  the  strategy  and  the  resources
required to achieve the objectives laid-down, in a clear and precise fashion.
8.        Annual programs prepared on the basis of the multi-annual programs
will establish the enterprise's physical, economic and financial objectives,
including,  if  possible,   targets  for  its  environmental  impact  (indirect
impact). These annual forecasts will fix target values in terms of economic
and financial ratios, rates of return, and employment and investment
utilization ratios.
9.        When implementation of the enterprise's program requires financial
or other kinds of intervention by the State, these programs and the relations
between the State and the public enterprise will be formalized in a contrat
program stipulating the obligations of each party.
10.       The Government  intends  to pursue  the formalization of  State PE
relations  it has already  started with a contract program with RAN.  The
elaboration of such contract programs requires the preliminary setting of an
adequate structure (audit,  reorganization, rehabilitation, MIS).   Thus, six
contract programs will be negotiated with the following enterprises: ONE,
SNPP, SAMIR, SCP, ONEP and ONCF. Two of these contracts will be signed prior
to loan effectiveness and the four others before the release of the second
tranche.



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment II
page 3 of 4
Monitoring
11.       The Government recognizes  the need to adjust the supervision and
control procedures of the State as regards PEs so as to, on the one band,
enhance their managerial autonomy and responsabilities an, on the other hand,
monitor the activities of the enterprises which are not subjected to any
control, such as subsidiaries. This action will have to be accompanied by an
increased control over the activity of the PEs' subsidiaries.
12.       Thus,  the scope and implementation form of the control procedures
will be determined by the degree of financial recourse to the State Budget, by
the level of development of existing financial and accounting systems and by
the degree of reliability of the MIS systems of the enterprises concerned.
The a priori control on recurrent expenditures and procurement decisions will
be relaxed substantially for those PEs who have established a contract-program
with the State. The autonomy of such PEs will be reinforced and controllers
will be appointed to them; their role will be stated in the contract-program
or in specific texts established by the Ministry of Finance. The controllers
will prepare studies on the conditions of implementation of the contract
programs, which will be transmitted to the CIPEP for further appraisal and
monitoring.
13.       In addition, a priori control should be  eased  progressively  for
those enterprises which have not established a contract program with the State
as new management and information systems are introduced, and their
organizational and financial structures are improved (e.g. cost accounting,
internal and external audits). The easing of the control system will aim at
streamlining the a priori control procedures on certain orders and recurrent
expenditures as well as at establishing a support control system focussing on
technical and financial performance.
14.       These adjustments call for a careful consideration of performance
indicators, management standards and of an adequate organizational structure
which allow for a satisfactory internal audit. They will be facilitated by
the introduction of management and information systems.
15.       The soundness of the accounts of PEs linked to  the  State by a
contract program will be certified at the end of each fiscal year by
independent and qualified auditors. The auditors' report will be transmitted
to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance and to the Technical
Supervisory Ministries involved with the enterprise concerned.
16.       The Government recognizes the need for the elaboration of a National
Accounting Plan (Plan Comptable) in the framework of the reform project on
public enterprises. This plan will be adapted to sectoral management needs
and will enable the comparison of the performance of various enterprises



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment II
page 4 of 4
within the same sector; it will also enable management appraisal on the basis
of  sound  financial  statements  and  reliable  and  objective  management
indicators. To this avail, a project for a National Accounting Plan will be
submitted  to  appropriate  authorities  in  the  beginning  of  1988.   The
institution of the National Accounting Plan will be accompagnied by a new
regulation  of  the  profession  of  "expert-comptable"  (auditor).   A  draft
legislation will be submitted to Parliament during the period mentioned above.
Boards of Diretos
17.       The Government, aware of the need to reinforce the management bodies
of the enterprises and to enhance their autonomy, will transmit a circular of
the Prime Minister with the objective of clarifying the tasks of the Board of
Directors of PEs and of revitalizing their functioning.
18.       Furthermore,  as a result of  the guidelines issued by the Prime
Minister concerning the functioning of the Board of Directors of PEs, a study
of the respective roles of the Supervisory Ministry, Board of Directors, and
Managers will be undertaken. Upon completion, this study will be discussed
with the Bank in the course of the second semester of the second year of
implementation of PERL with the view of elaborating a reform, if necessary.
Introduction of  oaion Svstems
19.       Some public enterprises already have organization, management and
information systems which enable them to prepare multi-annual and annual
programs and to introduce the monitoring process without awaiting the
implementation of the National Accounting Plan.
20.       However, for other enterprises, a considerable amount of prior work
may have to be done to modify structures, management methods and information
systems. The Government will support this work and the installation in these
enterprises  of  appropriate  data  processing  equipment.   The  enterprises'
information systems must be able to provide the necessary information to the
Boards of Directors, CIPEP, and the Supervisory Ministries.



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment III
page 1 of 5
RATIONALIZATION OF THE ROLE OF THE STATE
IN THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
1.        The public enterprise sector plays an important role in the Moroccan
economy.
2.        Historically, the sector development is not due to any deliberate
strategy of the public authorities, but simply to the fact that the Moroccan
private sector was technically and financially incapable, after Independence,
of establishing the instruments required for Morocco's social and economic
development.
3.        The need to accelerate the development of key sectors in the economy
has led the authorities to establish a system of incentives to the private
sector through the promulgation of codes to encourage private investment in
the industrial, agricultural, tourism and fisheries sectors.
4.        As a result of this policy and of the process of Moroccanization,
the private sector has developed satisfactorily over the last few years.
(i)       Disenagement measures alreadY implemented
5.        The Government has embarked on a policy of progressive disengagement
in favor of the private sector.  The measures undertaken recently in that
respect concern several sectors, namely:
The Hotel Sector
6.        The Government  has awarded management contracts for a period of
twelve years to professionals of the Moroccan hotel trade to manage the hotels
belonging to the Moroccan National Tourist Office, which had previously been
managed by the government-owned DIAFA Company.
7.        This transfer has taken place in two steps:
-    A first group of nine hotels, with a global room capacity of 761,
has been leased in March 1982;
-    A second group of eight hotels, with a room capacity of 628 has been
leased in January 1985.



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment III
page 2 of 5
Fisheries
8.        The subsidiaries of  the National  Fisheries  Office (ONP), namely
SOMAMER, ASMAK and INTERPORT have been transferred to private groups.
The ONP had previously leased:
- boats belonging to its subsidiary THONAPECHE to a Spanish company
for a period of ten years;
- the boats CAP BARBAS and CAP BOJADOR to private Moroccan holdings.
Jndustria Sector
9.        In 1973, beet producers were able to participate in the capital of
the Beni Mellal Sugar Company, of the National Sugar Company of BERT and of
the Sugar Company of Doukkala.
10.       In  1984,  the  Treasury  transferred  to  various  individuals  and
corporations all, or part of, its participation in the capital of COSUMAR, of
the Sugar Company of Doukkala and of the Soci6t6 Nouvelle des Conduites d'Eau
(S.N.C.E).
Service Sector
11.       As early as 1984, the Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation
(OCE) was discharged of the responsibility for the marketing of canned foods.
Also, from  October  1986  on, producers  of  citrus  fruit  and  off-season
vegetables are not required to market their products through the OCE.
12.       According  to Article V of the law on the creation of the Port
Operations Office (Office d'Exploitation des Ports - ODEP), the operation of
the Port of Jorf Lasfar has been taken over by two private companies in which
the ODEP holds only 30% of the shares.
13.       Furthermore,  in  order  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  public
enterprises and rationalize their management, the Government has carried out a
number of restructuring operations.   In 1984,  it undertook  the financial
consolidation of CTM/LN, while certain subsidiaries of BRPM, such as the
"Soci6t6 de PYROTINE de KETTARA" and the mining company of Aouli, were closed
pending their liquidation.
14.       The  process  of  privatization  recently  undertaken  in  the  urban
transportation sector should also be mentioned.



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment III
page 3 of 5
(ii)      Further Policies and Strategies
15.       Aware  of  the  positive  impact  of  these  changes,  the  Moroccan
Government intends to follow a policy of progressive disengagement in favor of
the private sector whenever this is possible in the light of the economic,
financial and social environment of the country, while safeguarding the
interests of the community.  The Government intends to implement a coherent
rationalization strategy as regards PEs with the objective, inter alia, of
reducing the role of the public sector in the production of goods and
services, improving the efficiency of public enterprises and restructuring the
sub-sectors over which it wishes to retain control. Hence, the public sector
will become an effective tool of national economic policy and will contribute
more effectively to the country's development effort.
16.       The disengagement of the State will take different forms, according
to the circumstances and the interests of the State and the enterprise, and
will take into account the objective cunditions of the Moroccan economy, e.g.,
various forms of privatization (management contract, concession, transfer of
assets, consolidation or liquidation if the company is not viable).
17.       With this in mind, the Government intends to reactivate the CIPEP
whose role will consist, inter alia, of redefining and clarifying the State's
position as regards economic intervention and to establish the overall
guidelines in terms of privatization and restructuration of PEs.
18.       The  Government  reaffirms  its  intention  to pursue  the  following
policies and strategies:
1)  Disengagemepnt Srtg
19.       The Government intends to limit the scope of intervention of PEs to
strategic sectors, public services and sectoral management and development
activities. Its objective is to turn PEs into dynamic and efficient focal
points of economic development. The Government intends to disengage itself
progressively in the fisheries, sugar, transportation and tourism sectors and
will examine the possibility of further disengagement in other sectors.
Enterprises which are demonstrably neither economically nor financially viable
will be  liquidated.  Finally,  the State plans to transfer to the private
sector its direct or indirect minority participations in various companies in
cases where these participations do not allow the State to efficiently control
the policy of the companies and do not bring any specific strategic advantage.
ii)  Seotoral RIestmeCturation
20.    At the same time, the Government  intends  to continue  to  implement
measures for the rationalization and restructuring of key sectors in the



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment III
page 4 of 5
Moroccan economy in order to create the right conditions for the efficient
functioning of all enterprises within these sectors.
21.       To concretize this strategy, the Government will undertake, as early
as the first year of implementation of PERL, studies on the restructuring of
the sugar and mining sectors (BRPM). The analysis of these sectors will be
comprehensive and extend to technical, financial. economic, management and
organizational aspects. In addition, aware of the importance of formulating a
national transportation policy, whose principal objective is to ensure the
provision of good quality services at the lowest possible cost, the Government
will prepare a development plan for transportation; its objective will be to
analyze the alternatives likely to improve the efficiency and encourage
competition, provide users with a free choice between modes and means of
transport and introduce new, low-cost services in remote regions of the
Kingdom.
22.       These various  studies  will  enable  the  Government  to  set  up  a
medium-term restructuring program and will recommend the necessary measures to
be taken in order to improve the management of these sectors. These measures
will be implemented upon completion of the studies.
Wii) Implementation of the disengagement and privatization processes
23.       In order  to prepare and support its disengagement strategy,  the
Government will undertake the inventory and the evaluation of its portfolio
with the assistance of consultants.  PEs will be systematically categorized
and evaluated on the basis of criteria such as: strategic importance for the
Government, efficiency, economic and financial situation, and market value.
24.       The conclusions of this study and of the ones on the restructuring
of the sugar, mining (BRPM) and transportation sectors will enable the
Government to set up a medium and long-term action plan.
25.       In  addition,  and  to  ensure  a  successful  medium  and  long-term
privatization program, the Government will take the necessary steps to
stimulate private savings and investments and develop the capital market. At
the same time, it will also implement the necessary measures in order to
further develop and revitalize the existing institutional infrastructure. The
Government will also set up the guidelines to be followed as regards
evaluation techniques of the enterprises, preparation of transfers, means of
control of restructuring operations. To ensure the successful implementation
of its program, the Government will be assisted by consultants with previous
experience in privatization, both in the preparation and the execution phases
of the program. Finally, concerning the means and procedures to be used in
the transfer of State's assets to the private sector, the Government intends
to resort to competition to the extent possible.



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment III
page 5 of 5
26.       It is understood that, from  the point  of view  of  the Moroccan
Government, privatization does not constitute an ern in itself and cannot
result in the systematic transfer of the most profitable assets while the
State is left in possession only of those public enterprises that are in
difficulty. Likewise, privatization must not favor the emergence of private
monopolies or oligopolies, wbich would not be in the general interest, and
would hamper the proper functioning of the economy.



v
Pagee 1 of 4
"MOC: f., L1       KXC __nTKW3"I nAIZAI   LOa
PUROGRM OF RATIONAL ZTOUIASK
PRTOR TO  PRTO        UPTNGU
AREA QF                                               A=ST NES                                     RE-PONlSILITY          CE  I TIU  ZLIItUHL
FItANCIWN             - Achieve greater financial autoneqy for major comemrcial PES by defining      ".J./pIs                         X        X
a financial policy establishing the respective shares of self financing
(based on tariffs and produtivity intreases), borrowings and budgetary
transfers.
Gradually adjust budgetary transfers of coercial PEs to to provide           -.F./PEs                         X       X
exclusively for their caoital requirements for development progran.
Take necessary steps to ensure that financing structure of investmgent is the  N.F./ONE/ONEP/ONCF             X       X
following for the three mjor PEs:
nrrasdOu        audtary transfars   Self-flnarsina
.162       Ina   l137           1108     1987   19m
O11:     7U          259      -           -       74a    75%                                                          X
WISP:    31%        S35      4U          48%      24%    17                                                          X
ONCF:    51%         45     lU            19%     4G    S6                                                            X
PICIN  POLICIES       - Coplete study of new pricing system for services supplied by GNIP             .F./0NEP/O%CF/NEA               X 
and ONCF.                                                                   Parent Ministries
- Cuplete pricing study as well as coordination of Investment programs In the  N.F/ONE/ONCF/MEA
electricity sector.                                                         Parent Ministries
- Issue statemant Permitting PEs to introduce new pricing systems on the basis  60vt/ONE/OEP/O%CF                       X
of results of studies.
- Pending introduction of new pricing systes. adjust prices to tiprove        Govt/OXE/0VEP/OVCF               X
financial viability according to following nominal increases:
inzm
ONE:                    St           St
ONEP:                 102           1
ONCF:                 10          lox
UPgrade appraisal capabilities of Price Control Department In the           mEA                     x         X       X
Ministry of Economic Affairs.
Ceaplete and disCUss with the enk studies on price structure of petroleum    G*vt/SANIR/SCP/SNPP              X       X
products on revision of their distribution margins and conditions of
interention on the part of the Caisse de Comensation.
00239~~~~~~~



Page 2 of 4
NDwr:  PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RTtNAM    ATOLOAN
PaROR TT PI TO    CR0
AREA  F 20ITEREST            -EASUR                                                                     R-SPOSIB LTAY l            NC   11 TRUCK  It TRA"Cg
INVESTIENT PUNAING    - Complete Study to delineate the training needs of the staff of PES, technical M.F./M.P./Technical                     X
ministries (Public Works, Transport. Energy and Wining) and Ministry of Plan Ministries
with respect to inves ent prosriamuno. evaluation and monitoring
- Strengthen Invostment appraisal capability of Ministry of Finance, Ministry    M.F.IW.P./Technical       x          X        X
of Plinn nog and technical ministries (Public Werks, Transport. Energy and        1intstries
Mining) or strengthen lno sbent appratsal un1ts within said ministries.
- Ensure that all PE  nvestments exceeding N 10 million be evaluated               PEs/Tech. 1instrs.                 X        X
financially and ecoonically by Ps and Parent ministries Prior to
receiving Govenrnt or ot0dr support.
CLEJRANCE AND           - Enact decre  on the  ettlm nt of goverment arrears to FE sector.                 Govt.                   X
PREVDEWTI or
6EAN3tT ARUARS          - Sign dec    by Minister of finance concerning  pajmmnt of arrears                ".F.                    X
TO PES, AND              through treasury bonds.
ELIKNRATI   Of CAL6ES
VW B}SE WffAS          - Establish special Treasury account for settlee nt of arrears.                    N.F.                     X
- Include in the mount of arrears to be settled arrears accumulated in 1986.   ".F.                        X
- C   lete consation of arreors betenm tm Goverment and  Ms. and issue             N.T./PEs                X
Treasury bonds for settlent of govnmment net arrears.
- Continma Govt. efforts to eliminate waste in the public consrwption of           ".F.                     X         X        X
goods and services provided by PEs and determne budgetary allocations
for utility services on the basis of actual billino of preceding year
Plus alloence for price Increases.
G0VW/PE RELATOIS      - Revitalize CIPEP throush Prim  Minister Circular. defining organiaatta            Gowt.                    X
and functioning of ci_ ttee and establishing DOPM as its Persanent
secretariat.
- Improve the fmictioning of EMDs through the issuance of Prime Mnister's          Govt.                    X
directives spoettying the role and functtoning of the BODs of PEs



Page 3 of 4
znoncO: tPUBLIC ENTERPOSE RATIONALIZATION LOAN
PROGUAN Of RATIONALIZATION )EASURES
IMPLEMENTATIONI DEADLINI
PRIOR TO   PRIOR TO     DURING
ARKA OF XITERKST                         ,EASURE                                                         RESPONSIBILITY   LI TRAML    I TLRAMCE  U TRAMCME
GDVT/PE RELATIONS      - Study and sumit to the Sank for ctment possible reform of EDs Including         Gvt.                               X        X
(cont)                   their role vts & vis the parent ministry and the
enterprise management. Agree with the Bank on an action program for
imptlwenting the above reform.
- Require eajor PEs to prepare long range and annual programs to indicate         Techn. M1inistries                X        X
their physical. soc10-economic and financial objectives.
- Establish contract progr    between Gover-aent and PEs.                        ".F./Techn. 1ins./       X         X        X
In particular:                                                                  PEs
(i) sign contract programs, following discussions with the Bank. with
two PEs: OXEP and SXPP;
(II) sign contract program. following discussions with the Bank, with                                            X
ONE. OXCF, SAMIR, and SCP.
- Progressively adapt and generali2e financial control through appropriate        M.F./PEs                x         X        X
Governst instructions;  In particular:
(i) Introduce new monitoring system and external audits and in ONE, ONEP,                                       X
OXCF, SAMRI, SCP and SNPP:
(ii) Introduce new monitoring system and external audits in BPRM,                                                         X
COYWAAV, ODEP. OUAEP. ONICL and the Regie de Tabacs.
- Preparation and discussion with the Bank of possible way of implemnting                                           X
easures designed to relax finansial control and Introducing possible
changes to existing legislation.
ENTERPRISE             - Monitor that SPOM, COUKXAV, OKEP, ONAREP, ONCF, ONE, SAMIR, SCP. SNPP,          ".F.                               X        X
KUNAGDOT                ONICM  and the Regie des Tabacs develop appropriate HIS according to
results of assessment of HIS needs in March 1s96.
- Start assessment of MIS needs in 12 additional enterprises. to be selected      M.F.                              X
during the first quarter of project iacleentation.
- Prepare and submit to appropriate authorities draft legislation for new         Interministerial                  X
National Accounting Accounting Plan.                                            ComiMssion



MIEX V
Page 4 of 4
t0CCO- PUBLIC FERPRISE RATIOMALIATIO  LUO
PROGRA  OF RATIONALIZTION NEASRES
PRIOR TO   PRIOR TO    OURING
AEA OF IITEREST                                       PEASIRE                                        RESPONSIBILITY      I TRAMCl:E ITlIh   E  r LIH E
ENTERPRISE             - Subrmt to Parli, 1nt draft legislation establishing Nlational Institute       Govt.                              X
MANAEMENT (con't)        of Chartered Accountants.
- Submit to appropriate authorities draft legislation establishing degree       Govt.                             X
program for a National Degree for chartered Accountants
- Assess training needs on accountino and auditing for the staff of PEs         "9.F.
and the OEPP including:
tt) awarding of first phase study concerning OEPP and the following                                 X
enterprises:  SCP, SWPP,  R, COMANAV. ODEP, ONAREP, ONICL, and
R6gie de Tabaes.
0ii) awarding of second phase study covering a second group of 12 PEs.       M.F.                              X
RATIONALIZATION OF     - Complete proparation of inventory and assessment of PE portfolio through       M. F.                             X
ROLE OF THE STATE        consultants acceptable to the Qank.
IN THE ECONM
- Prepare, on the basis of inventory. government policy concerning privati-     CIPEP                             X
zation, restructuring, liquidation, and merging of PES and discuss its
iuplepntation progrm with the Bank.
- Prepare and discuss with the Sank action program for disengannt of the        CIPEP                             X
State from productive economic activities (sectors, enterprises.
instrwfnts of intervention).
- Clete restbacturing studies for sugar, mining and transport sectors.          M.F.ITech. Hins.                  X
discuss preliminary findings with the oank and agree on implementation of
restructuring progras.
ORGANIZATION OF        - Establish public enterprise data system.                                       M.F.                              X        X
OEPP AND PROJECT
DIPLDENTATIN           - Strengthening of DEPP.                                                        1.F.                               X        X
- Train OEPP staff to new PE monitoring functions.
- Establish CIPEP's subcoittee for implawntation of PERL.                       Govt.                   X
- Establish task forces of PERL subcittee and coWlete recruitment               Govt.                   X         X         X
of external experts to assist task forces.



- 68 -
page 1 of 2
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
TYPE OF ACTION                                                                               RECOURCE
AND SECTOR OF                  TYPE OF       siDtjL   ACost   TIMETABLL    RESPONS. AGENCY   TO PPF
INTERVENTION                  ASSISTAKNE   Man/Hths.  I    Start  Finish  Eec.    F1nanf. FINANCING
IMPROVEMENT OF
INVESTMENT PROGRAMHING
Assessment of training
needs in financial and
economic project
evaluation 1)                 Consultants      1    10.000    9/87  12/87  HF/HP        HF      Yes
IMPROVEMENT OF MANAGEMENT
INEROATION SYSTEH
Diagnostic of MIS needs in
13 initial PEs and DEPP       Study           4    25.000   12/85  03/86  WF/OEPP       HF      Yes
Analysis of inform.
systems and methods
used in govt. depts.          Study            4    40.000   11/87  03/88  CIPEP/TMs   MF         -
Diagnostic of HIS needs
in a 2nd group of 12 PEs      Study           3    20,000   11/87  03/88  CIPEP/MF    HF         -
implementation of
info. system of DEPP Z/       Consultants    24   240.000   09(87  06/88  HF/OEPP       HF       -
Equipment       -   350,000      -    03/88  MF/DEPP      HF       -
IMPROVEMENT OF ACCOUNTING
AND AUDITING
Preparation of National       Consultants   50-60 300,000   09/86  12/86  HP/MENMJI/  MF        Yes
Accounting Plan                                                             HF/Prof.
Development of accounting/
auditing training programs
for staff of 13 PEs and
OEPP J/
-first phase                Consultants     6    60.000   09/87  12/87  HF            HF      Yes
-second phase               Consultants    18   180,000   03/88  09/8a  HF            HF       -
PREPARATION OF
RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMS
Inventory and evaluation
of Portfolio of PEs           Study       15-20    750.000  07/87  03/88  CIPEP/WF   HF        yes
Diagnostic study for
restructuring BRPH            Study       20-30    400.000  07/87  03/88  MEM/MCI       MF     yes
./ Implementation of Training programs to be combined with ongoing UNOP and other related training
activities.
V/ Implementation of HIS of PEs will be financed directly by enterprises.
2/ Cost of Training to be supported directly by the PEs concerned and by the DEPP.



- 69 -
ANNEX VI
page 2 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING  (Continuation)
TYPE OF ACTION                  TYPE OF                                                      RECOURCE
AND SECTOR OF                  ASSISTANCE  Estimate Cost    TIMETABLE    RESPONS. AGENCY   TO PPF
INTERVENTION                               Han/Mths.  I    Start  Finish  Exec,   Financ. FINANCING
PREPARATION OF STUDIES
RELATED TO SIX ENTERPRISE
RESTRUCTURED UNDER PERL
- Qtl
Study of electricity tariffs
-first phase                Study       3S-45    600.000  09/87  05/88  MEA/HEM/HI  WF    yes
ONE/REGIES
-second phase               Study       15-25    300.000  06/88  09/88  MEA/MEM/MI  MF         -
ONE/REGIES
Coordinate least cost
investment programs for       Study       25-35    400.000  09/87  05/88  MEM/MT/       HF       -
ONE and Regies                                                              ONE/REGIES
- fNKP
Study of water tariffs
-first phase                Study       40-50    500S 000  09/87  04/88  MEA/MI/      NF     yes
ONEP/REGIES
-second phase               Study       25-30    300.000  05/88  10/88  HEA/MI/       MF       -
ONEP/REGIES
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Assistance to PERL
Sub-Coumiittee                Consultants   15-20  175,000  06/87  06/89  CIPEP         HF      yes
Consultants to assist         Consultants/
on privatization actions      Merchant Bank         500,000  06/87    -    CIPEP        HF       -
TOTAL COST OF TA FINANCED UNDER PERL          5 .lSO1 0O
Contingencies and unallocated                   850.000
GRAND TOTAL                                6,000.000



M OR OCC  Q,p6,G R,    if                                      -___ ____ ___
'I
ALGERIA                   ARAB      -         Main roads
1 LIBYA    !REP OF
C"yn       t           _|GPSecondry roads
i~ I   s x   o  w s >  I_ _ ------ Tracks
MAURItTANIA|  A-1\               =s
MALI      NIGERi a I Railways
THE SEN!GALV --J  -.=.        {/ CHAD  J                     Atrports
CGtAG: fA               j                4 SUAN              o  National CapitaliCities and Towni
NIGERIA        'k                      Poarts
MADEIRA p                      Rivers
Salt lakes
International boundartes
32r                                                             Ie- trnational boundaries (spproxtr
Indicates the territory of the form,
Spanish Sahara (Western Sahara)
CANARY ISLANDS
(Spain) J            um
I.e PJWJ   nelfe
28                      Geowiw                              .                           TaA.T-A
gHMYF         Cunrl                            Ta_   ___
La'Youn      oA Hoggom
AJd-Dckf3d| 
I~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~  BItMegto
S                       *1   M  ~~~A U R I
La G4SNubo  A16                            +rO         ir



IBRD 19858R
MOROCCO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE RATIONALIZATION LOAN
.                                          .ou ad   ....r.
S o    e l        <       A      r        do~~~%d
fita,CitiGs and Towns                     RASAi                       nm              :-)<   /lM ;
Iboundarts                    r        v                ;     gstffRt-                          i.er
boundaries (approximata)  Sal,     f                    T j _
territ" of the fortmer
(Ware (Western Sahara)
Easaow~r  ~arrokech ,<,o;E
| >   lsrherm  ,,< ___  sW   J            \t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e'ii-lAbbe5s
OIAAGEI
S~~~Tlltatotur:t   N.a RgAft    
v>o.,Iimim  ,/                                          A   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imm
K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
_I r                     !AL   
u6rata~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{da                                              8
A S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOATR Io                                20      .00     40
MAURI TA  I N I
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I tO oOa of
*0      4' ft. fOEtR   OO.,Y 100   200   30a 0 a,  WO 4# f 00 bo..S,a
8'         ~        ~        ~~1  v     s m~,s  or7~   4A '
MARCH 1987



