Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2820 MOR
             (Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 27, 1987
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  27,  1987,  between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank  has  received  a letter dated April 30,
1987 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and  policies  designed  to   achieve  a  rationalization  of  the
Borrower's  public  enterprise   sector   over   the  medium  term
(hereinafter   called   the   Public   Enterprise  Rationalization
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Public Enterprise Rationalization Program; and
     (B)  the Borrower has requested  the Bank's assistance in the
financing of  essential  goods  and  services  required during the
execution of the Public Enterprise Rationalization Program; and
     WHEREAS on the basis, inter  alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in  support  of  the Public Enterprise Rationalization
Program to provide such assistance  to  the Borrower by making the
Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below  (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
                "'Project' means the  imports and other activities
          that may be financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Loan
          pursuant to the  provisions  of  Schedule  1 to the Loan
          Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
                "(c)  Not later than six  months after the Closing
          Date or such later date as may be agreed for its purpose
          between the Borrower  and  the  Bank, the Borrower shall
          prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
          and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
          on the execution  of  the Public Enterprise Rationaliza-
          tion Program referred  to  in  the  Preamble to the Loan
          Agreement, the performance by  the Borrower and the Bank
          of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
          and the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan.";
          and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms and acronyms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "Bank of Morocco" means the central bank of the Borrower
(Bank al Maghrib);
     (b)  "BRPM"  means  the   Office   of   Mining  Research  and
Investments (Bureau de Recherches et de Participation Minieres), a
Public  Enterprise  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the
Borrower's Law (Dahir) dated December  15, 1928 and the Borrower's
Law (Dahir) No. 1-75-285 dated December  17, 1976, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "CA" means the board of directors of a Public Enterprise
(conseil d'administration);
     (d)  "Category" means a category of  items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the  Loan  as  set  forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (e)  "CIPEP" means  the  Permanent Interministerial Committee
on Public  Enterprises  of  the  Borrower (Comite Interministeriel
Permanent des Entreprises Publiques);
     (f)  "DEPP" means the  Department  of  Public Enterprises and
Investments of the Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance (Direction des
Etablissements Publics et des Participations);
     (g)  "Dirham" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (h)  "Fiscal Year" means a calendar year;
     (i)  "ONCF"  means  the  National  Railway  Authority (Office
National des Chemins de Fer),  a Public Enterprise established and
operating pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Law  (Dahir) No. 1-63-225
Page  3
dated August 6, 1963, as  modified by the Borrower's Laws (Dahirs)
No. 1-70-18 dated July 25, 1970  and No. 1-73-202 dated January 2,
1974, as the same be may amended from time to time;
     (j)  "ONE" means the  National Electricity Authority, (Office
National de  l'Electricite)  a  Public  Enterprise established and
operating pursuant  to  the  Borrower's  Law  (Dahir) No. 1-63-226
dated August 5, 1963,  as  modified  by the Borrower's Law (Dahir)
No. 1-73-201 dated September 19, 1977,  as the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (k)  "ONEP"  means  the   National  Water  Supply  Authority,
(Office National de l'Eau Potable) a Public Enterprise established
and operating pursuant to the  Borrower's Law (Dahir) No. 1-72-103
dated April 3, 1972, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (l)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Bank  to  the Borrower pursuant to a
letter dated September 10, 1986 from the Bank and countersigned by
the Borrower on November 11, 1986;
     (m)  "Public Enterprise"  means  a  legally autonomous entity
producing  goods  and  services,   of   which  a  portion  of  the
proprietary interest is  owned  or  effectively  controlled by the
Borrower or any  political  or administrative subdivision thereof,
or by any such legally autonomous entity, and which is governed by
the Borrower's Law (Dahir) No.  1-59-271  dated April 14, 1960, as
modified by the Borrower's Law (Dahir) No. 1-62-402 dated June 30,
1962, relating to the financial  control by the Borrower of public
enterprises;
     (n)  "Regie" means  any  municipal  or inter-municipal Public
Enterprise  providing  electricity,   water  supply  and  sewerage
services in the territories  of  the  Borrower and established and
operating pursuant to  the  Borrower's  Decree  No. 2-64-394 dated
September 29, 1964;
     (o)  "SAMIR" means  the  Moroccan  Refining  Company (Societe
Anonyme  Marocaine  de   l'Industrie   du   Raffinage),  a  Public
Enterprise established and  operating  pursuant  to its charter as
amended to the date of this  Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (p)  "SCP"  means  the  Moroccan  Petroleum  Company (Societe
Cherifien  du  Petrole),  a   Public  Enterprise  established  and
operating pursuant to its  charter  dated  March  26, 1959, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
     (q)  "SITC" means the  United  Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision  (SITC,  Rev. 2), published in
Commodity   Indexes   for   the   Standard   International   Trade
Classification,  Revised,  Statistical   Papers,   Series  M,  No.
38/Rev.2 (1981);
     (r)  "SNPP" means  the  National  Petroleum  Products Company
(Societe Nationale des  Produits  Petroliers), a Public Enterprise
established and operating pursuant  to  the Borrower's Law (Dahir)
No. 1-74-130 dated April 4, 1974; and
     (s)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
forty million dollars ($240,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
Page  4
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required  during the execution of the Public
Enterprise Rationalization Program and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a  special account in Bank of Morocco
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special  Account shall be made in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the  Effective  Date,  the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required  to  repay  the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and  outstanding as of such
date and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
       (i)    "Interest Period"  means  the  six-month period com-
              mencing on each  date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
              this Agreement,  including  the  Interest  Period in
              which this Agreement is signed.
      (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
              outstanding borrowings of the  Bank drawn down after
              June 30, 1982, expressed  as a percentage per annum,
              as reasonably determined by the Bank.
     (iii)    "Semester" means the first  six months or the second
              six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying  out the Public Enterprise Rational-
izational Program and the actions  specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Page  5
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Public Enterprise Rationali-
zation  Program  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall reasonably
request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Section  I  of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) In order  to ensure the proper execution of
the Public Enterprise Rationalization  Program, the Borrower shall
carry  out,  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency,  the following
activities under terms of  reference  which shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank:
        (i)  carrying out of a study  to identify and evaluate the
             training needs of  the  staff  of  departments of the
             Borrower  and  the  staff  of  the  Enterprises, both
             selected in consultation  with  the Bank, responsible
             for  programming,   evaluation   and   monitoring  of
             investments; and  development  and  implementation of
             appropriate   training   programs   based   on   said
             evaluation;
       (ii)  development and application of appropriate management
             information systems in 24 Public Enterprises selected
             in consultation with the Bank;
      (iii)  strengthening of DEPP and development and application
             of an appropriate  management  information system for
             DEPP,  including  the  provision  of  data processing
             equipment required therefor;
       (iv)  development and application  of a national accounting
             plan;
        (v)  development and  implementation  of training programs
             in accounting and auditing for  the staff of DEPP and
             the  staff   of   Public   Enterprises   selected  in
             consultation with the Bank;
       (vi)  carrying out of  an  inventory  and  appraisal of the
             Public  Enterprises  and,   on   the  basis  thereof,
             development  of  a  strategy   and  program  for  the
             eventual disengagement by  the  Borrower from certain
             activities carried  out  by  Public  Enterprises; and
             implementation of said program;
      (vii)  carrying out of studies  to identify and evaluate the
             restructuring needs  of  the organization, management
             and operations of BRPM and its affiliates, and of the
             sugar sector of the Borrower's economy and to develop
             programs of restructuring of said entities and sector
             on the basis  of  such evaluation; and implementation
             of such programs;
     (viii)  carrying out of  a  two-phased  study to identify and
             evaluate the  restructuring  needs  of  the transport
             sector of the  Borrower's  economy  and  to develop a
             program of restructuring of  said sector on the basis
             of  such  evaluation;   and  implementation  of  such
             program;
       (ix)  carrying  out  of  a   two-phased  study  to  develop
             appropriate  structures  and  levels  of  electricity
             tariffs charged by ONE and  each Regie and to develop
             a coordinated least  cost  investment program for ONE
             and the Regies;  and  introduction of such structures
             and program;
Page  6
        (x)  carrying out  of  a  two-phased  study  to  develop a
             program to improve  the  financial  viability of ONEP
             and  the   Regies,   including   the  development  of
             appropriate structures  and  levels  of water tariffs
             charged by ONEP and each Regie; and implementation of
             such program;
       (xi)  carrying out of a study  to establish a structure and
             levels of prices of  petroleum products which reflect
             international  prices  of  said  products  and ensure
             appropriate distribution margins; and introduction of
             such structure and levels; and
      (xii)  carrying out of  a  study  to  develop an appropriate
             system of (A) monitoring of Public Enterprises by the
             Borrower's Ministry  of  Finance  and  the Borrower's
             ministries responsible  for  the  economic sectors in
             which  the  Public   Enterprise   operates,  and  (B)
             management of the  operations  of Public Enterprises,
             and  in  particular,   to   develop  reforms  of  the
             composition and  functions  of  CAs,  all designed to
             ensure  the  effective  and  efficient  operations of
             Public Enterprises; and  introduction  of said system
             and reforms.
     (b)  In order to  assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying out the
Public Enterprise Rationalization  Program  and the activities set
forth in sub-paragraphs (a) (i)  through  (a) (x) of this Section,
the Borrower shall: (i)  employ consultants, whose qualifications,
experience and terms  of  reference  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank, in accordance  with  a  timetable  satisfactory to the Bank,
and, when the services of such  consultants are to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan,  with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) take all measures necessary
to  ensure  that  the  activities  of  said  consultants  shall be
completed and the reports  of  said consultants, together with the
recommendations based thereon, shall  be  furnished to the Bank in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower
shall: (i) afford the  Bank  a  reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower  on  said reports and recommendations; and
(ii) thereafter take all  measures  necessary to ensure the prompt
implementation of such recommendations  as  shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices  the  expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section  and  those for the
               Special Account, for  each  Fiscal Year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
      (iii)    furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
Page  7
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  Fiscal Year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during  such   Fiscal   Year,   together   with  the
              procedures and internal  controls  involved in their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that an event  has  occurred  which  makes  it improbable that the
Public Enterprise Rationalization  Program,  or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  amounts,  referred  to  in  the  Public  Enterprise
Rationalization Program, of  indebtedness  outstanding between the
Borrower and  the  Public  Enterprises  have  been extinguished or
reduced by way of payment or set-off,  as the case may be, and the
Borrower has issued, on  terms  and  conditions agreed between the
Borrower and the  Bank,  and  delivered  to,  or  on the order of,
resulting creditor Public Enterprises bonds evidencing the balance
owed them on account of such payment or set-off;
     (b)  the tariffs charged by  ONCF  have been increased to the
levels,  referred  to  in  the  Public  Enterprise Rationalization
Program, applicable to the Fiscal Year 1987;
     (c)  corporate  development  plans,  in  form  and  substance
satisfactory to the Bank,  have  been  agreed between the Borrower
and each of ONEP and SNPP; and
     (d)  the Borrower  has  employed  consultants,  in accordance
with the provisions of Section  3.03  of this Agreement, to assist
the Borrower in carrying  out:  (i)  the activities referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) (vi) of said  Section;  (ii) the studies on BRPM
and its affiliates referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (vii) thereof;
(iii) the transport sector study  referred to in sub-paragraph (a)
(viii) thereof; (iv) the  power  sector  study referred to in sub-
paragraph  (a)  (ix)  thereof;  and  (v)  the  water  sector study
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (x) thereof.
Page  8
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
          Rabat
          Royaume du Maroc
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINISTERE DES FINANCES          31936 M
               RABAT, MAROC
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                   By /s/ M. Bargach
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
Page  9
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  (a)  General Imports          70,000,000     100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures
     (b)  General Imports          47,000,000     100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures
(2)  Imports for selected
     Public Enterprises
     (a)  (i)  spare parts         20,000,000     100% of foreign
               for ONCF, coal                     expenditures
               for ONE and
               chemicals
               for ONEP
         (ii)  crude oil for       30,000,000     100% of foreign
               SAMIR and SCP                      expenditures
               and liquified
               petroleum gas
               for SCP and SNPP
     (b)  (i)  spare parts for     37,000,000     100% of foreign
               ONCF, coal for                     expenditures
               ONE and chemicals
               for ONEP
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
   (ii)  crude oil for           30,000,000       100% of foreign
         SAMIR and SCP                            expenditures
         and liquified
         gas for SCP and
         SNPP
(3)  Technical Assistance
     (a) Consultants'             4,400,000       100%
         services
     (b) Data processing            350,000       100% of foreign
         equipment                                expenditures and
                                                  80% of local
                                                  expenditures
(4)  Refunding of                 1,250,000       Amount due
     Project Prepara-                             pursuant to
     tion Advance                                 Section 2.02 (c)
                                                  of this Agree-
                                                  ment
                               ____________
         TOTAL                  240,000,000
                              - 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
Page  10
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the  term  "General  Imports"  means  goods  other than:
(i) petroleum and other  energy  products; (ii) food stuffs; (iii)
goods referred to in Category  (2);  and (iv) goods referred to in
the SITC groups  or  sub-groups  set  forth  in  the Annex to this
Schedule.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawal shall be made and  no  commitment shall be entered into
to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $24,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) (a) and  (2)  (a)  on  account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1986;
     (b)  expenditures under  Category  (1)  for  goods  which are
supplied under a contract costing less than $25,000 equivalent;
     (c)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (d)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (e)  expenditures to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Categories (1) (b)  and (2) (b), unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement:  (i)    with  the progress
achieved by the  Borrower  in  carrying  out the Public Enterprise
Rationalization Program; and  (ii)  that  the actions, referred to
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, have been taken.
4.   If, after the exchange  of  views  referred to in paragraph 3
(e) of this  Schedule,  the  Bank  is  not  so  satisfied and this
situation shall not be  rectified  by  the Borrower within 90 days
after notice thereof by the Bank,  then the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the amount  of  the Loan unwithdrawn from the
Loan Account and allocated to  Categories  (1)  (b) and (2) (b) or
any part thereof.
5.   Applications for withdrawal of  amounts of the Loan allocated
to Categories (1) and  (2)  shall,  to  the extent practicable, be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
     Group    Sub-group         Description of Items
      112        -              Alcoholic beverages
      121        -              Tobacco, unmanufactured
                                tobacco refuse
      122        -              Tobacco, manufactured
      667        -              Pearls, precious and semi-
                                precious stones, unworked or
                                worked
      688        -              Uranium depleted in U235 and
                                thorium, and their alloys,
Page  11
                                unwrought or wrought, and
                                articles therefor, n.e.s.;
                                waste and scrap of uranium
                                depleted in U235 and of thorium
      718      718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                thereof, n.e.s.
      897      897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                platinum group metals (except
                                watches and watch cases) and
                                goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                wares (including set gems)
       -       971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                gold ores and concentrates)
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 1992
     through     April 1, 2007                       8,000,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
Page  12
                          SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   To the extent  practicable,  contracts  to  be financed under
Categories (1) and (2) shall  be grouped in bid packages estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part B, con-
tracts for goods to be  procured  by  Public Enterprises or by the
Borrower  and  estimated  to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent of
$5,000,000 each,  may  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised   locally   in   accordance  with  procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for coal, for crude oil and for liquified petroleum
gas  may  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of  the  normal procurement
practices of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   Goods which the Bank agrees  are  of a proprietary nature may
be procured under contracts directly negotiated with the suppliers
of such goods in  accordance  with  procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.   Contracts for goods  to  be  procured  by entities other than
Page  13
Public Enterprises or the Borrower and estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $5,000,000 each  may  be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
Part C:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract  to  be awarded on the basis of
the procedures  referred  to  in  Part  A  of  this  Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first  application  for  withdrawal  of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of  such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with  the  analysis of the respective bids
and recommendations for  award,  a  description of the advertising
and tendering procedures  followed  and  such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   With respect to each contract  not governed by paragraph 1 of
this Part C, the Borrower shall  furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as  the  Bank  may  reasonably  request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  1 and 2 of this
Part C, where payments under a contract  are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special  Account,  the  copies of such contract or
the documentation and the information  to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to the provisions of  paragraph  1 or paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, as the case may  be,  shall  be furnished to the Bank as
part of the evidence required  under  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
4.   The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2  and 3 of this Part C shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 3.04 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants: (A)   whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
        Events referred to in paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1
Budgetary Allocations
1.   (a)  Allocation by the  Borrower  in  the relevant budgets of
its administrative  subdivisions  for  the  Fiscal  Year  1988, of
amounts, determined on the basis  of guidelines referred to in the
Public Enterprise  Rationalization  Program,  sufficient to enable
said subdivisions to  pay  for  water  and power services provided
thereto.
     (b)  (i) Payment by the  Borrower  to  each  of ONCF, ONE and
ONEP  in  respect  of  the  investment  programs  of  such  Public
Enterprise for the Fiscal Year  1987,  of the amounts set forth in
the Public  Enterprise  Rationalization  Program,  as such amounts
shall, if warranted, be  reduced  to reflect the progress achieved
in the  implementation  of  said  investment  programs during such
period; and  (ii)  allocation  by  the  Borrower  in  the relevant
investment budgets of ONCF, ONE and ONEP for the Fiscal Year 1988,
of the amounts set forth  in the Public Enterprise Rationalization
Program, as such amounts  may  be  adjusted  from  time to time by
Page  14
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Studies
2.   (a)  Carrying  out,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Section  3.03  of  this  Agreement,  of:  (i)  the  inventory  and
appraisal of Public Enterprises,  referred to in sub-paragraph (a)
(vi) of said Section; (ii) the studies on BRPM and its affiliates,
referred to in sub-paragraph  (a)  (vii)  thereof; (iii) the first
phase of the transport sector  study, referred to in sub-paragraph
(a) (viii) thereof;  (iv)  the  first  phase  of  the power sector
study, referred to  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  (ix)  thereof; (v) the
first phase of the water sector study referred to in sub-paragraph
(a) (x) thereof; and (vi)  the study on petroleum prices, referred
to in sub-paragraph (a) (xi) thereof;
     (b) receipt by  the  Bank  of  a  copy  of said inventory and
assessment  and  of  each  of  said  studies,  together  with  the
recommendations based thereon; and
     (c) development of action  plans  agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank for the implementation of said recommendations.
Tariffs
3.   Increase of the tariffs charged by each of ONCF, ONE and ONEP
to the levels referred to in the Public Enterprise Rationalization
Program applicable to the Fiscal Year  1988, as such levels may be
adjusted by agreement between  the  Borrower  and the Bank to take
into account inflation and  the financial condition and investment
requirements of the Public Enterprise concerned.
Audits
4.   Carrying out of audits of the records, accounts and financial
statements of each of ONCF, ONE, ONEP, SAMIR, SCP and SNPP for the
Fiscal  Year  1987,   in   accordance  with  appropriate  auditing
principles consistently applied,  by independent external auditors
satisfactory to the Bank,  and  receipt  by  the Bank of certified
copies of said financial statements,  as so audited, together with
the report of such audit by said auditors.
Corporate Development Plans
5.   Establishment of  corporate  development  plans,  in form and
substance satisfactory to  the  Bank,  agreed between the Borrower
and each of ONCF, ONE, SAMIR and SCP.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and  services  to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories  in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $50,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  15
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  therespective eligible 
Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
        (i)    the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions  with  respect   to   the  Public  Enterprise
               Rationalization  Program  shall  be  equal  to  the
               equivalent of twice  the  amount  of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
Page  16
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
