Docmen of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5777 CE        lype: (PM)
Title:  COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND
Author: PLANT. GEORGE                                Repo No 1 P-5777-CE
Ext. :02573 Room:D3 025 Dept. :SA3EI
MEIMORMAUDKI AND IRECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVLOPM     ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 16.9 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPllLIC OF SRI LAIKA
FOR A
COEMITy WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 16, 1992
This docunent has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thdr offical duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of July 1992)
Sri Lanka Rupee (SLR)     -    100 paisa
US$1.00                   -    SLRs 44.0
SLRs                      -    US$0.023
SDR                       -    US$1.44618
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
mm        X    millimeter (1 millimeter - 0.039 inches)
m         -    meter (1 meter - 3.28 feet)
km        -    kilometer (1 Kilometer   0.62 miles)
km2       -    square kilometer (1 km2   0.368 square miles)
ha        -    hectare (1 hectare - 10,000 square meters - 2.47 acres)
1         8    liter (0.22 Imperial Gallons or 0.264 US Gallons)
lcd       -    liters per capita per day
m3        -    cubic meters (220 Imperial Gallons
or 264.2 US Gallons)
ABBREVIATIONS
BOT       -    Build-Own-Transfer
CBO       -    Community-Based Organizations
CIR       -    Country Implementation Review
CWSPU     -    Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit
DDP       -    District Development Plan
ERC       -    Economic Restructuring Credit
ESAF      -    Enhance Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW       -    Economic Sector Work
GCEC      -    Greater Colombo Economic Commission
GOSL      -    Government of Sri Lanka
MEPA           M Ministry of Environmental and Parliamentary Affairs
NGO       -    Non-Governmental Organization
NWSDB     m   National Water Supply and Drainage Board
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
PMEAC     -    Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit
PO        8    Partner Organization
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers           The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiaries:      Community-Based Organizations (CBO)
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO)
National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) and
Pradeshiya Sabhas (local governments)
Amount:              SDR 16.9 million (US$24.3 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Pinancing Plan:
Local  Foreign  Total
----US$ Million------
Government of Sri Lanka   5.5      0.0     5.5
Communities                2.5     0.0     2.5
IDA                       16.1     8.2    24.3
Total Project Cost        24.1     8.2    32.3
Economic Rate of Return: 21.2% (for water schemes)
Staff Anpraisal Report: Report No. 10571-CE
Map:      IBRD No. 23635 - Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project:
Districts of Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performau ce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
for SDR 16.9 million (US$24.3 equivalent) to help finance a Community Water
Supply and Sanitation Project. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA
terms, with a maturity of 40 years. The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) will bear
the foreign exchange risk.
PART I
COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Economic Policies and Performance
1.        Sri Lanka's economic record has been mixed with relatively poor growth
from Independence to 1977, fiscal expansion with modest growth through the mid-
1980s, large macroeconomic imbalances and virtual stagnation through 1989, and
robust growth since. Mirroring this record, the country's adjustment performance
has been mixed since the late 1970s, especially following the beginning of the
civil war in the early 1980s. At the end of the particularly turbulent 1988-89
period, adjustment efforts resumed and an adjustment program was adopted.
2.        The 1989-92 program, reflected in the second-year Policy Framework
Paper (PFP), focussed on the needs to restore macroeconomic stability and revived
the agenda contained in an aborted first PFP. Many of the reforms identified
under the second-year PFP were translated into specific action programs under an
Economic Restructuring Credit (ERC) approved by IDA's Board in May 1990. It was
followed with the Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit (PNEAC)
approved by the Board in November 1990, designed to support the first phase of
Government disengagement from commercial activities.
3.        Macroeconomic management and performance improved and GDP growth
accelerated from 2.3 percent in 1989 to 6.2 percent in 1990. To reduce financial
imbalances, given a credible revenue effort (slightly over 21 percent in 1989-
90), the Government emphasized reduction in expenditures particularly in the
public investment program and in transfers to households. Tightened expenditures
led to a reduction in the overall deficit from 15.7 percent of GDP in 1988 to
11.2 percent in 1989 and to slightly below the 10 percent PFP target in 1990.
4.        The external sector showed improvement  in 1990,  reflecting the
adjustment of the rupee during 1989, high world prices for tea and increased non-
traditional exports. The current account deficit fell to 5.4 percent of GDP,
substantially below PFP targets, while gross official reserves increased three-
fold to the equivalent of almost two months' imports in early 1991.
5.        Although the program focussed on stabilization, some initial progress
was made on the adjustment front. Most notably the size of the civil service was
reduced by about 40,000 employees (10 percent of civil servants) in 1990-91



-2-
principally through incentives offered to early retirement. Progress was also
made in privatizing some smaller public manufacturing enterprises and in
restructuring the state-owned bus company. Private company entry into ocean
freight was also liberalized. Trade reforms included elimination of almost all
quantitative restrictions, a reduction in the maximum import tariff and steps
towards implementing the 1990 Taxation Commission recommendations. In an effort
to attract foreign equity investment, a prohibitive (100 percent) transfer tax
on equity acquisition by foreigners was eliminated for up to 40 percent of total
shares, boosting activity in the Colombo Stock Exchange.
6.        To consolidate and sustain progress, the Government reached agreement
with the Bank and the IMF on a third-year PFP (reviewed by the Committee of the
Whole in October 1990) and a fourth-year PFP (raviewed in September 1991). The
main medium-term objectives of the extended program were to: (a) sustain growth
at 5-6 percent per year; (b) reduce inflation to 6 percent by 1994; and (c) limit
the external current account deficit to about 6 percent of GDP. Fiscal restraint
was to result in a decline in the budget deficit from about 10 percent in 1990
to about 7 percent in 1994.
7.        Developments in 1991 confirmed that despite the ethnic conflict which
escalated to civil war in the north, economic recovery was well underway, but
progress in restoring macroeconomic balances proved more difficult. Expenditure
slippages re-occurred (due to the cost of security-related operations, the civil
service retrenchment and consumption based poverty programs) resulting in an
overall fiscal deficit of 11.5 percent of GDP. Despite slippages, inflation was
reduced from about 22 percent in 1990 to 12.2 percent in 1991. Growth in real
GDP was almost 5 percent with strong growth in the manufacturing and trade
sectors continuing to outpace the more modest growth in agricultural production.
The share of investment in GDP increased to 23 percent (in line with the medium-
term program) as a result of higher private investment.
8.        Mirroring increased fiscal imbalances  the current account deficit
widened from 5.4 percent of GDP in 1990 to 7.6 percent of GDP in 1991. However,
higher disbursements of concessional aid and private capital flows contributed
to an overall balance of payments surplus and a buildup in gross official
reserves to the equivalent of 2.7 months of imports at end-1991, well in excess
of the Government's target.
9.        There were also increased difficulties in the implementation of
structural reforms. Most importantly, the Government continued to move in the
privatization of small firms but was unable to tackle major loss-making
enterprises, in particular the state-owned banks and plantations. Tax holidays
proliferated haphazardly and the efforts to improve the efficiency of welfare
programs weakened.
10.       The developments in 1991 should be viewed against a backdrop of
renewed political uncertainty linked to an unsuccessful attempt to impeach the
president in August 1991 and a stepped-up level of military activity in the
North. Increased concern about human rights violations also affected financial
assistance from bilateral donors.



-3-
Table 1 - SRI LANKA:KEY INDICATORS, 1988-°1
1988       1989        1990       1991
GDP growth rate                      2.7        2.3         6.2         4.8
Inflation rate (average)            14.0       11.6        21.5        12.2
Debt service ratio                  29.8       24.8        18.2        21.0
Gross investment/GDP                22.8       21.7        22.2        23.0
National savings/GDP                14.2       14.6        16.8        15.2
Public investment/GDP               13.7       10.0         8.7         8.8
Public ssvings/GDP                  -2.0       -1.1        -1.2        -2.0
Private investment/GDP               8.8       11.5        13.2        13.9
Budget Deficit (-) or
surplus (+)/GDP                  -15.7      -11.2        -9.9      -11.5
Exports/GDP                         21.1       22.3        24.6        22.5
Imports/GDP                         32.1       31.9        33.4        33.4
Current account/GDP                 -8.5       -7.1        -5.4        -7.6
11.       In 1992, the Government reinstated its commitment to implement a
program of prudent policies aimed at restoring macroeconomic balance and
safeguarding the country's external competitiveness, consistent with the export-
led development strategy. A nurber of tax reforms were effected, including steps
to rationalize the turnover tax, a mr've toward a four-band tariff system and
reductions in the maximum rates for corporate and personal income tax.
12.       On the monetary side, the Government adopted a new system of reserve
money management. By June 1992, monetary growth had decelerated to 18 percent
on an annual basis. In order to safeguard export competitiveness, the rupee
depreciated against the dollar by about 3 percent in the first half of 1992.
13.       Following further dialogue with IDA, some renewed progress was made
in the implementation of structural reforms starting in mid-1992. The management
of state-owned plantations was transferred to private sector companies and 15
public enterprises were privatized, in addition to the dozen that had already
been divested. A timetable to commercialize the two large and financially weak
state-owned banks was approved in April 1992 although progress so far has been
limited to administrative measures that cannot yet guarantee managerial autonomy.
Moreover, in order to enhance the privatization process and foster greater
foreign investment, the Government eliminated the remaining tax on the transfer
of equity from domestic to foreign ownership.
14.       Several reforms were also introduced in the external sector in 1992.
The requirement of Central Bank approval for profit and dividend repatriation was
liberalized; foreign exchange allowances for business, tourism, and education
purposes were increased; and the facility to open foreign exchange accounts was
extended to all residents.   Finally, further progress was made in confining
import licensing requirements to those maintained for health, environmental, and
security reasons.
15.       The economic outturn for 1992 so far looks favorable.  Real growth is
expected to be better than 4 percent, inflation has decelerated to about 10
percent in the first half of the year, fiscal and monetary targets appear on
track, and gross official reserves rose to about three months of imports by end-
June 1992. The Fund Board reviewed the fifth-year PFP and approved the second-
year ELhanced Structural Adjustment Facility on October 9, 1992.



B. &diustment Priorities and Challenges
16.       At this juncture, Sri Lanka face. the daunting tasks of restoring
peace in the North and the East, maintaining dtability and the growth momentum,
and sustaining the adjustment effort to pursue the reform agenda.
*-17.     Since the early  1980.,  civil disturbances  intruded as a major
impediment to Sri Lanka's economic developmont. They began as an ethnic conflict
in the Northern and Eastern districts in 1983 and escalated gradually until the
conflict reached major proportions in early 1987. The ethnic conflict subsided
following the India-Sri Lanka Peace Accord of July 1987 but by 1988, it reached
again serious proportions after nationalistic groups opposed to the terms of the
Accord mounted an intensive anti-Government campaign in the South, which
escalated to the point of virtually paralyzing the country in mid-1989.
18.       According to official figures, defense expenditures increased four-
fold from about 1 percent of GDP in the first half of the 1980s to 4 percent of
GDP in 1987-89, a level maintained ever since. The ongoing civil war clearly
exacts a high toll--direct and indirect in terms of human suffering, loss of
output, and implications for the investment climate as well as for the budget.
Yet, despite the country's troubled political situation, the economy, especially
the private sector, has shown a remarkable resilience. If the civil conflict
does not worsen, political difficulties do not undermine the structural
adjustment effort, and macroeconomic management continues to improve, sustained
growth of about 5 percent should be possible over the medium-term. If peace
returns, a higher growth path would be feasible.
19.       The Government's objectives and strategy for the 1992-95 period, as
embodied in the fifth-tear PFP remain fundamentally unchanged from those outlined
in prior policy framework papers. The fiscal deficit is to be reduced from 8.6
percent of GDP in 1992 to less than 7 percent by 1995, allowing for a reduction
in the Government's domestic financing requirements from 4.3 percent of GDP in
1991 to 1.0 percent in 1995, a level compatible with the needs of an expanding
private sector. The current account deficit is to be reduced from 6.4 percent
in 1992 to 5.4 percent in 1995 while inflation is to be reduced to a single-digit
level, and GDP growth would average 5 percenr per annum.
20.       To achieve these objectives, the Government would need to accelerate
the pace of structural reform, while pursuirlg macroeconomic stability through
restrained fiscal and monetary policies. Central is the need to redefine further
the respective roles of the private and public sectors, through a more rapid
withdrawal of the Government from commercial activities and improvements in the
economic and administrative environment for private sector development. The
priorities encompass specifically:   the restructuring of public expenditure
inclu ling the phasing of a hard budget constraint on public enterprises;
financial and external sector reforms; continued improvements in the tax, trade
and regulatory environment to further promote investment and competition; and
longer-term reforms to upgrade human resources and to protect the environment.
21.       The Government Budtet.   The restructuring of public expenditures
(nearly 32 percent of GDP in 1991) to contain their growth and improve their
efficiency remains one of Sri Lanka's most difficult challenges. The three key
areas ares (a) the entitlement programs (5.4 percent of GDP in 1991) which
require improved targeting and efficiency in the management of the three main



-5-
welfare programs; (b) the civil service (4.8 percent of GDP in 1991) which
requires rationalization including measures to maintain a constant real wage
bill; and most of all (c) public enterprises to phase out budgetary transfers and
provide more room to the private sector.
22.       In 1991, it is estimated that over half of the Government deficit
originated from the public enterprise sector.   The success of the first
privatization phase (even if limited in scope) should now lead to a more rapid
divestiture process. Buoyed by the initial results, the Government is widening
its scope. The eight largest public enterprises, aside from state-owned banks,
account for over 60 percent of the Government deficit originating in public
enterprises.    Since not all are immediate privatization candidates,  the
Government is establishing a mechanism for the monitoring of their losses in
order to enforce financial targets for their reduction, in parallel with
divestiture and restructuring efforts.   Limits are also needed on capital
transfers to commercial public enterprises which should be privatized (e.g., Air
Lanka, Telecommunications, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation).
23.       Financial and External Sector Reforms.  Since the mid-1980s, domestic
financing of the Government has preempted nearly four-fifths of gross national
savings, crowding out the private sector. Two state-owned banks (Bank of Ceylon
and People's Bank) which account for two-thirds of commercial banking assets,
have become financially insolvent as a result of lending to public enterprises
and for rural development. Private banks, while growing, have taken advantage
of the state banks' need for high margins, imposing high costs on Sri Lanka's
productive sectors.   The economy is also hurt by the lack of long term
instruments requiring pension funds and insurance companies to invest short term
in government securities, further pre-empting the mobilization of resources for
term lending to the private sector.
24.       The Government is taking so far only modest steps to tackle financial
sector problems. A first step is the recent introduction of a system of reserve
money programming and competitive treasury bill auctions to begin the shift
toward more flexible, indirect instruments of monetary control and make interest
rates more market determined. At the same time, the Government has experienced
more difficulty in its efforts to restructure and commercialize the two state-
owned banks. Beyond ongoing efforts to amend the Banks' Act, recapitalize the
banks and transfer bad and doubtful debts to independent collection agencies,
stronger political commitment is necessary to further enhance the objectives of
autonomy and efficiency which would be best served through privatization.
25.       More progress is being made to further liberalize the trade and
payments system including the simplification of the foreign investment regime.
In addition to safeguarding external competitiveness through exchange rate
policy, it is important to sustain these efforts in order to improve the
operations of the exchange system and reduce restrictions related to payments and
transfers for current international transactions.  With a view to achieving
current account convertibility, the Central Bank is presently reviewing
regulations pertaining to the external current account and is expected to take
steps over the next year to eliminate the bulk of them. The objective is to
complete elimination of export surrender requirements.   Limits on foreign
exchange for service account payments--including for travel, education, and
medical care--will be steadily liberalized with a view to their complete
elimination.



- 6 -
26.       Tax. Trade and Retulatorv Reform.  While safeguarding the overall
revenue effort, progress is also being made to reduce heavy reliance on
production and foreign trade taxes and reverse the declining importance of direct
taxes. Priorities include the further reduction of the tax burden on corporate
taxpayers and widening of the tax base, simplification of the turnover tax to
broaden its coverage and facilitate a rapid move toward a value-added tax, and
the rationalization of the program of investment tax incentives by eliminating
discretionary elements, limiting the duration of new tax holidays, and not
renewing existing tax holidays.
27.       Recent reforms of the tariff system have led to a maximum tariff rate
of 50 percent, which is expected to be further lowered to 35 percent over the
next two years, and the incorporation of most zero-rated items within the
existing four-band system. Trade protection to some sectors, however, is still
provided through specific tariffs snd reference prices.   The Government is
reviewing valuation procedures, including the use of pre-shipment inspection
services, to facilitate the conversion of specific rates into ad valorem tariffs
and improve customs collection.
28.       Process-intensive  reforms also require  attention,  especially  to
increase transparency of the regulatory environment and enhance private sector
development. Among the prioritiess (a) the elimination of direct and indirect
barriers to entry and exit, including measures to minimize the expense and delay
of incorporation, protect shareholders' rights, and facilitate liquidation; and
(b) the rationalization of regulations regarding foreign investment and the
capital market to create a level playing field for public and private
enterprises.   Additional obstacles to private sector development that the
Government recognizes as important but is politically hesitant to address are;
restrictions on land use; and rigidities in labor mobility and remuneration.
29.       In the agriculture sector,  the Government is facing up to the
challenge of improving the quality of public services and transferring to the
private sector management and risk in the tea and rubber estates. Additional
efforts are required to consolidate initial progress and complete disengagement
from the estates. More efforts are pending to complete the liberalization of the
rice and wheat flour markets. The ongoing deregulation of internal distribution
of flour and the new flaxible pricing system recently introduced constitute
important first steps. The Government would also need to continue to rationalize
the sugar industry and carry through the divestiture of the corporations already
designated for privatization as well as of the public sector fertilizer
corporations.
30.       The Government is embarking on a major effort to streamline the giant
Mahaweli Authority to make it a more efficient provider of irrigation water at
the level of major headwork and main canals, leaving the operation and
maintenance of the simpler distributor and field canals to farmers'
organizations. The privatization of commercial facilities such as seed farms and
the return of public service functions to the relevant national line agency are
essential towards this effort. Agricultural diversification into higher value
crop and livestock products would be encouraged in the Mahaweli as in other areas
by these policy measures designed to bring abovr a closer alignment of domestic
and world market prices and permit greater freedom of resource use.
31.       In the infrastructure sector, the Government's highest priority is
rehabilitating and maintaining the neglected transportation network. A program



-7-
to rehabilitate and improve maintenance operations of the road network would
require an effort to increase private sector involvement and improve the
management capability of the Road Development Authority.   The Government' s
decision to transform the Sri Lanka Railways from a government department to an
independent authority is a first step in the restructuring of the railways which
could aleo include privatization of some services. The recent conversic'n of the
Sri Lanka Telecommunications Department to a public corporation has led to
improved quality and an expansion in telecommunication services through a more
autonomous management structure. Selected telecommunications services are also
being opened up to the private sector, but future prospects for privatization
should be more aggressively explored.
32.       In the eneray sector, the Government will continue its efforts to
secure economically efficient supplies of energy. Improved overall efficiency
can be achieved through measures to rationalize institutional arrangements,
upgrade the transmission and distribution system, and reduce losses. To ensure
the financial health of the subsector, further progress is needed to adjust
electricity tariffs as the Government continues to encourage private construction
and operation of power generating plants on a BOT basis.   In the petroleum
subsector, the first priority is to review the activities of the Ceylon Petroleum
Corporation as well as its pricing, distribution, and taxation policies to
prepare for the gradual liberalization of the subsector. Meanwhile, Government
commitment to petroleum pricing that fully reflects costs to all clients,
including Air Lanka, needs to be maintained.
33.       Poverty Alleviation and Human Resource Development.  Sri Lanka has an
excellent record in social sector development and continues to have very good
social indicators. However, resource and institutional limitations and policy
constraints as well as the impact of the civil conflict threaten to undermine
earlier achievements. In the education sector, the major emerging issues include
inadequate recurrent expenditures; the imbalance between expenditures for
primary,  secondary,  and  tertiary  education;  and  regional  disparities  in
educational quality and facilities.   In addressing these issues, additional
efforts are required to enhance cost recovery through user fees and encourage
further development of private education. In the health sector, there is an
urgent need to remedy the bias in Government spending toward hospital-based
curative care, which has resulted in a decline in the quality of primary and
preventive health services; to improve efficiency in the use of available
resources, including for preventive care and family health; and to explore
alternative ways of financing health care through insurance systems and fees.
34.       The Government's strategy in poverty reduction is to enhance overall
economic growth while improving the quality of health and education services.
In recent years, it has also sought to improve the targeting and efficiency of
existing welfare programs. Through community-based screening, the food stamp
program has been maintained at just under one million households but to mitigate
the effects of a drought earlier this year, the Government temporarily reinstated
food stamps benefits to about 300,000 families; these benefits are expected to
be withdrawn before end-1992. The third round of the Jana Saviya program (JSP)
was limited to less than 90,000 families, and efforts to make JSP production-
oriented have continued as beneficiaries are required to enroll in civil works
or training programs and are obliged to graduate once the minimut specified
family income is attained. Continuation of these rationalization efforts is of
high priority.



-68 
35.       Environmental Policiles.  To address important environmental issues
facing Sri Lanka--including deforestation, land degradation, and urban and
industrial pollution--the Government has established a sound legal framework, as
well as a number of institutions established under the President's aegis. The
most important of these agencies is the Central Environmental Authority (CEA)p
which reports to the recently established Ministry of Environment and
Parliamentary Affairs (MEPA). Sri Lanka also has a large number of environmental
organizations outside the Government which have an active and effective voice in
the formulation and implementation of esvironmental policy. The Ministry of
Policy and Planning and the NEPA prepared, with IDA assistance, a National
Environmental Action Plan in 1991, that has established a more coordinated
approach to environmental planning and implementation.   The plan is being
implemented with the active support of the donor community and non-government
organizations.
C. IDA's Assistance to Sri Lanka
Bank Growu Operations
36.       Bank Group assistance to Sri Lanka fluctuated largely depending on the
rate of progress in the policy dialogue with the country. While IDA has always
maintained a fairly strong presence in Sri Lanka, our support was particularly
significant during the major liberalization period after 1977 when IDA assistance
increased sharply. In the mid-1980s when the country was facing ethnic problems,
the inability of the Government to pursue a vigorous economic reform program
constrained IDA't country assistance strategy in terms of lending support. After
1989, the resumption of a more ambitious reform program was supported through a
larger assistance program.
37.       As of June 30, 1992, IDA had approved 61 credits totalling about
US$1612.0 million (net of cancellations). The sectoral allocation is presented
in Table 2. Although disbursement performance is in line with the average for
the region, Sri Lanka's record on project implementation needs improvement.
Because of the civil conflict and unsettled conditions, in certain areas,
implementation of a number of projects has been disappointing. With increasing
budget constraints, some projects have suffered from inadequate counterpart
funding in addition to cumbersome in-country procurement procedures.   These
developments led to a decline in the project (investment only) disbursement ratio
from about 21 percent in FY86 to about 15 percent in FY90 before climbing back
up to about 25 percent in FY91-92 as a result of intensified IDA supervision,
increased cost-sharing, and joint tackling of systemic issues (e.g.* procurement,
disbursement procedures).
Obiectives and Strategv
38.       In support of the main elements of the Government's PFPs, IDA's major
objectives in Sri Lanka are to help promote sustained export-led growth, to help
reduce poverty and upgrade the country's human capital, and to protect the
environment. In pursuing these objectives through its lending and economic and
sector work, IDA is giving priority tos (a) macroeconomic stability, emphasizing
measures which address internal and external imbalances; (b) addressing medium-
term structural issues by improving the incentives regime and by reducing the



9 -
slse of the public sector while improving its afficiency; and (c) directly
addressing poverty issues including mitigating the impact of adjustment on the
poor, and removing the physical and human capital constraints to sustainable
long-term growth.
T       :nWroUnoN OPF LENDG FYWS
TOTAL MDA COMWrMEn IFY68.  ACTIVE AS OF 61301S2
USS     %   NO. OF  %    US$    OFWHICH %         AV.AGE
MILUON       PROJ.       MIWON  UNDISB.  UNDISB.   OF ACTIVE
PORTFOUO
_ w)
INVESTMENT LENDING
AGRICULTURE          551.7  3X1%  26   44.0%  122.9  108.8   68.5%     3.8
INFRASTRUCTURE       284.2  18.6%   9    152%  227.5  1692    74.4%    42
ENERGY               204.0  13.4%   6    10.2%  142.5  115.1   80.8%   3.9
INDUSRY & FINANCE    347.8  22.8%  14   23.7%  128.8  60.0   46.6%     4.3
HUMAN RESOURCES       81.5  5.3%   3    5.1%   81.5  79.8   97.9%      4.6
POVERTY AllEVIATION   57.5  3.8%   1    1.8%   57.5  55.7    9.9%      1.5
LESS CANCELLATIONS    (141.5)
SUB-TOTAL            13652  85.9%  59   98.7%  760.7  588.6   77.4%     4.0
ADJUSTMENT 
ERC                  106.6  47.0%   1    80.0%   90.0   4.8    5.3%    25
PMEAC                120.0  53.0%   1    50.0%  120.0  66.1   56.1%    1.9
SU1.TOTAL             2286.  14.1%   2   3.3%  210.0  70.9   33.8%      22
TOTAL               1611A  1%   t   10.0%  977  69.    67%           3a8
M4acroeconomic Manaaem_nt and Adiustment Process
39.       The first priority in Sri Lanka is to ensure that the agreed
macroeconomic program remains on track and to further reduce internal and
external imbalances while completing the structural reform agenda. The latter
entails, in particular, new reforms to strengthen the enabling environment for
the  growing  private  sector.    Policy  priorities  include  public  sector
rationalization,  privatizat-4'.n and financial sector reforms.   Medium-term
objectives are to maintain a competitive exchange rate while moving towards a
market-determined rate; increase public savings and improve financial
intermediation; and remove barriers to trade, and factor mobility, including
regulatory and administrative barriers. In pursuit of these objectives, IDA
plans to support the Government's efforts by contributing to an external
assistance package including balance-of-payments aid, complemented with economic
and sector work.
40.       Public Sector Rationalization.  IDA assistance would help broaden the
scope of public enterprise reform initiated under PHEAC by supportings
accelerated divestiture; regulatory reforms and enterprise restructuring in the
few sectors that will remain in public ownership; and institutional improvements
to strengthen the Government's supervisory framework. IDA's assistance strategy
is specifically designed to help expedite divestiture for the small and medium-
size enterprises which remain state-owned, restructure and/or privatize the eight
largest loss-making public enterprises, and assist the Government in the
monitoring and reduction of their losses. In addition, IDA would support further
reforms of state banks and plantations. The ongoing Public Expenditure Review



- 10 -
and P. poverty assessment being launched, would help highlight further areas of
expenditure rationalization to be supported by the lending program.
41.       In the context of the Public Expenditure Review dialogue and sectoral
investment  operations  IDA would  supportt   (a)  institutional measures  to
strengthen the design and implementation of public investment; (b) continued
administrative reform including civil service reform; and (c) the preparation and
implementation of sectoral strategies and public expenditure programs in
education, health and infrastructure. The specific sector investment programs
would be prepared in close coordination with donors co-financing such
investments.
42.       A major objective of IDA support would be to further help government
retrenchment from productive activities (e.g., petroleum sector), and partially
transferring certain public services (e.g., infrastructure, operation and
maintenance, poverty alleviation programs, vocational education, agricultural
services) to the private sector, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and/or
local communities. With its focus on community-based approaches to manage rural
water supply and sanitation systems, giving communities more responsibility for
the services provided, the proposed Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project
is fully consistent with these objectives.
43.       Private Sector Development.   IDA would provide direct support for
incentives reforms, economic deregulation, and more generally, private sector
development in the context of both adjustment lending and investment operations.
Specifically, IDA plans to support: (a) reform of taxation through the
introduction of a value-added tax, the rationalization of personal and corporate
income taxes, and the rationalization of tax incentives; (b) further improvements
in the external trade regime through, inter-alia, the conversion of specific
duties into ad valorem, further reduction in the maximum tariff rate, and
elimination of non-tariff barriers and export duties; and (c) deregulation of
internal economic activity and factor use through legal reforms related to entry
and exit, competition policies, land and labor.
44.       In the financial sector, IDA would support the strengthening of
domestic  resource  mobilization  and  the  diversification  of  financial
intermediation for term lending to the private sector. IDA would support reforms
of the policy and regulatory environment, especially the revitalization of non-
bank financial institutions, the development of an efficient market for public
and private debt instruments, and the expansion of the private bankinf, sector.
45.       In parallel to the overall opening of the domestic market supported
under the adjustment dialogue, sector investment operations would seek to promote
the significant export potential of Sri Lanka.   A proposed Agricultural
Diversification Project would help remove land-use constraints, encourage private
export-oriented agro-business, and strengthen support services (improved market
information, public health regulation and services and natural resource
management).    A  proposed  Colombo Urban  Transport  Project  would  support
deregulation of rail transport, and technical assistance to complete the
privatization of bus companies; and a proposed Mahaweli Restructuring Project
would support the transfer of responsibility for operation and maintenance of
secondary and field canals to farmers' organizations, the privatization of
production facilities, and the transfer of extension services to relevant line
agencies.



- 11 -
46.       Role of IFC and MIGA.  IDA's support for private sector development
is being pursued with IFC's active cooperation and involvement. Bank and IFC
staff are currently cooperating in the preparation of a Private Sector
Assessment, to establish a commonly-agreed base for action. IFC is intensifying
its business promotion efforts, focussing on promising export sectors (gems,
ceramics, garments, food processing, and fisheries) to expand its portfolio of
six projects. It is also assisting the Government in the area of privatization,
(e.g., Air Lanka), is active in capital market development (a venture capital
fund was approved in FY91 and a unit trust in FY92), and is providing technical
assistance for the commercialization of pension funds and insurance companies and
for developing a secondary market in gover.ment bonds.   The MIGA Foreign
Investment Advisory Services staff have been assisting the Government in re-
drafting foreign investment guidelines, and in implementing a more effective
investment promotion strategy.
47.       Poverty Alleviation and Human Resource Management.  Sustained growth
is a necessary but insufficient condition for reducing poverty in Sri Lanka. In
addition to adjustment lending to promote sustained growth and improve targeting
of entitlement programs (Jana Saviya, Food Stamp and Mid-day Meal), IDA's
assistance strategy will place emphasis on strengthening the delivery of basic
services, improving the geographical distribution of public investments in rural
areas, as well as providing new and diversified income and employment-generating
activities  in rural and urban areas.   Project components  (e.g.,  Poverty
Alleviation II, Health and Population II) aimed at alleviating poverty on a
targeted basis will rely even more on NGOs and private organizations, building
on experience developed under their ongoing precursors. Economic and sector work
will also emphasize poverty, including food security issues to better comprehend
the impact of reforms and programs to date and to improve the poverty focus of
our assistance strategy. Planned operations in agriculture and infrastructure
are designed specifically to promote rapid supply response in the leading sectors
of the economy.
48.       To upgrade Sri Lanka's human capital, ongoing projects in education,
health and population would help improve the quality of education and training,
strengthen sectoral management, support health policy development and broaden
family planning. Future operations will seek to further develop the quality of
education and its relevance to the evolving skills requirements of the economy,
support preventive care including AIDS prevention, and introduce cost-recovery
to ensure sustainability. The Economic and Sector Work (ESW) and the policy
dialogue will seek to encourage the accountability and financial management of
public resources, and increase participation of the private sector in the
provision of services.
49.       Women play a major role in the social and economic fabric of Sri
Lanka. Women are actively engaged in agricultural production and are strongly
represented in all other economic activities including the civil service (35
percent). Taking the forty low-income countries, the social indicators for women
in Sri Lanka stand out: the highest levels of life expectancy at birth (73
years); the second lowest rate of maternal mortality (90 per 100,000 live
births); and the highest school enrollment at both the primary and secondary
levels (83 and 109 females per 100 males respectively). However, households
headed by women are believed to be disproportionately represented among the poor,
particularly in urban areas. The lending strategy includes: targeting women
heads-of-households for start-up of micro-enterprises (ongoing Poverty
Alleviation Project and its planned follow-up); enhancement of women's access to



- 12 -
health services and ability to plan family size (ongoing Health and Population
Project and it. planned follow-up); and targeting of women in the planned
Vocational and Technical Training Project.
50.       Economic and Sector Work.  Economic and sector work in recent years
has focused on policy issues associated with the Government's adjustment program.
The January 1992 Country Economic Memorandum served as a background document for
the Sri Lanka Aid Group Meeting.  During the next few years, the ESW will
concentrate on: (a) macroeconomic analysis in support of the adjustment program,
including a Public Expenditure Review supporting our dialogue on the composition
and efficiency of public expenditure; (b) increasing output and efficiency in the
main productive sectors emphasizing private sector development (Private Sector
Assessment, Industrial Sector Review, Agricultural Sector Review); and (c)
analysis focusing on the development of human resources and poverty alleviation.
As part of the latter focus a Povesty Assessment will fill information gaps about
the scope and characteristics of poverty in Sri Lanka, and evaluate Government
poverty alleviation programs with a view to their further restructuring.
Lending Program: Level and Composition
51.       The lending program corresponds to current expectations that the
Government will continue its recent steps to improve macroeconomic management,
accelerate the adjustment process, especially in the areas of public enterprise
divestiture and economic deregulation, combat poverty more effectively through
streamlined and better targeted programs, and protect the environment.  The
scenario is predicated upon a flexible IDA response to the evolving economic and
political situation, by matching progress and performance by the Government in
addressing the priorities outlined above, in particular on the macroeconomic
management and structural adjustment front, with increased financial support.
While major back-tracking on the reform front is considered unlikely, there is
a risk that further progress could be slow or minimal. Under such a scenario,
IDA would hold-off further quick-disbursing assistance and focus on the
preservation of the long-term development potential for Sri Lanka, through
investment  lending  for  human  resource  development,  the  environment  and
infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation.
52.       The proposed IDA lending program would consist of about three to four
operations a year, include two adjustment operations over the FY93-96 period, and
amount to about US$8 per capita. The share of quick-disbursing support to total
IDA lending is expected to be in the 25-35 percent range, depending on the
Government's adjustment effort and the country's financing requirements.
53.       The main focus of adjustment lending would be on support for reforms
of the public sector including public enterprise divestiture and civil service
reform, the financial sector, the incentives and trade regime and the regulatory
environment. Investment operations would support private sector development by
improving domestic mobilization of term resources and providing capital through
the commercial banking system at positive interest rates in real terms, and by
improving the provision and quality of essential infrastructure and public
services. Lending for poverty alleviation and environmental protection would be
pursued both in the context of self-standing operations or as a part of sector-
specific investments in the project pipeline (e.g., Health and Population II,
Colombo Urban Transport, Energy Efficiency Project).



- 13 -
Proiect Imglementation
54.       The performance of the portfolio has been steadily improving over the
last several years. Compared to the South Asia Region as a whole and to the
Bank, Sri Lanka's performance on project implementation was well above average
in FY92. The sector showing the greatest improvement was agriculture, followed
by transportation and power.   The urban sector declined in country-wide or
systemic overall performance, while a number of projects in the health and
population sector and industrial finance continued to experience implementation
delays related to problems in meeting effectiveness conditions, completing
procurement procedures and in providing counterpart funding.
55.       IDA's  portfolio management  strategy  continues  to view  project
implementation as an integral part of the overall country assistance strategy.
To help forge the linkages between lending, ESW and portfolio management, a
Country Implementation Review (CIR) will be held this year in Sri Lanka. In
addition, IDA will continue to address both the project-specific and systemic or
country-wide implementation issues. Also, supervision efforts will continue to
be concentrated on problem projects, especially in the urban portfolio, with a
view to preparing effective action plans. Mid-term reviews for projects in the
health and industrial finance sectors are also planned for this year to take
stock of progress to date and to make whatever mid-course corrections and
adjustments may be necessary.
Aid Coordination
56.       Sri Lanka has been recipient of substantial external assistance, with
net disbursement in 1990 over US$650 million. Effective aid coordination is an
essential component of IDA strategy.   In addition to the Annual Aid Group
Meeting, chaired by IDA, coordination activities encompass frequent policy and
program consultations with major donors, consultation among donor resident
missions, shared responsibility for SSW, and co-financing of operations. IDA
intends to continue and strengthen this approach.
57.       Implementation of the adjustment program requires close association
with the IMF in monitoring the macroeconomic framework and the PFP, and also in
designing specific programs supported by IDA lending and Fund arrangements. IDA
and the Fund have closely cooperated in the preparation of the second-year
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and the preparation of IDA
adjustment operations through joint or parallel missions.
Country and External Risks
58.       There are risks associated with the proposed assistance strategy which
essentially reflect political factors. The civil conflict in the North and East
remains intractable with no tangible evidence yet of an emerging solution. Even
an intensification of the conflict cannot be ruled out, with worsened economic
consequences. Moreover, with Sri Lanka geared towards elections in 1993, the
implementation of politically sensitive reforms could prove more difficult.
There is a more pervasive risk that powerful vested interests will be successful
in weakening the reform movement, notably in privatization and public enterprise
restructuring, and economic deregulation. Although the risks are real, they are
mitigated by the track record of the Government carrying through with reforms,
and the care taken in sequencing and pacing the programs supported by the
international community. These risks could also spill over into major sectors



- 14 -
and slow the implementation of IDA's portfolio as well as the design and
implementation of new programs. This risk is being addressed through CIR in Sri
Lanka to solve portfolio implementation issues, and through the capacity-building
components of sector investment operations.
59.       Vulnerability and Linkages with the External Economv. Measured by the
size of its international trade, Sri Lanka is a fairly open economy; its
commodity eaorts are about 22 percent of GDP and imports are about 33 percent.
Exports have been growing at 12 percent annual average in the last three years
(1989-1991) but could benefit from further diversification as tea still accounts
for more than 20 percent of total exports, and garments (which largely depend on
the quota system in the American and European Community markets) account for 40
percent. Regarding imports, Sri Lanka depends totally on imported petroleum
(about 10-13 million) barrels a year. On services, the economy benefits from
tourist receipts and workers' remittances. Tourism is highly sensitive to the
country's political stability; it had declined continuously since the outbreak
of civil conflict in 1983 until its recent rebounce with the return of near-
normalcy in the country, except for the North and East. Workers' remittances,
mainly in the Middle-East, amount to US$400 million a year. Many of the Sri
Lankan workers are female domestics,  and have been affected less by the
fluctuating investment in the region. Still, a repeat of events such as the Gulf
War would potentially affect the flow of remittances to Sri Lanka.  Foreign
investment, while rapidly increasing, remains sensitive to political stability.
Regarding foreian aid and debt, Sri Lanka is a major recipient of grant and
concessionary aid. The authorities have amortized most of earlier commercial
foreign borrowing, and in 1991, the debt service ratio was around 18 percent,
down from 25-30 percent in 1987-89. Outstanding and disbursed debt also declined
as a share of GDP from 67 percent in 1989 to 64 percent in 1991.
60.       Policies  for Building Resilience  to External Shocks.    Improved
economic management, political stability and diversification of the export base
would reduce vulnerability to external shocks. Since the amount of foreign aid
has become dependent on not only economic but also political stability, it is
especially important that the country implement structural reforms, and at the
same time, continue its efforts to pursue peace in the Northeast.
61.       Because  about  60 percent  of  exports  are  tea and  garments,  a
significant negative shock to either of these exports would be detrimental to Sri
Lanka, especially as international tea prices fluctuate widely, and substantial
uncertainties exist in the garment export under changing quota arrangements. In
spite of these arrangements, Sri Lanka has successfully expanded its garment
exports. Nonetheless, it should build resilience to quota changes by continuing
its efforts to diversify exports to non-traditional agriculture and other
industrial goods and expand garment exports into higher value-added items that
are outside the quota system.
62.       The recent expansion of foreign investment has been enhanced by the
authorities' reform program which, inter alia, removed prohibitive taxes on
transfers of assets to foreigners, and liberalized foreign exchange transactions
considerably. IDA is supporting the authorities' efforts to make the process of
approving foreign investment more transparent and simple. These efforts, if
sustained, should pay off in terms of high levels of foreign investment.



- 15 -
D. External Financina Reaulrements
63.       Although Sri Lanka's current account deficit is expected to decline
in the coming years, assuming satisfactory implementation of the adjustment
program, Sri Lanka still requires substantial financial support, especially given
the scope of the external sector liberalization.   The external financing
requirements for the period 1992-95 are projected at about SDR 3.3 billion
including private and public debt repayments of SDR 815 million. Capital inflows
from foreign investment and the private sector are projected to cover SDR 750
million, reflecting continued investor confidence. The remaining financing needs
are expected to be covered by grants and loans from multilateral and bilateral
sources on a concessional basis. It is expected that existing commitments will
account for SDR 1.1 billion. Additional expected disbursements would result in
the equivalent of approximately SDR 1.5 billion, including the Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility, now in its second-year, and further adjustment
lending from IDA. In 1992 and 1993, new and existing commitments of SDR 270
million in official transfers and SDR 800 million in long-term concessional loan
disbursements are expected. With rapid export growth projected, the debt service
ratio would decline from 19 percent in 1991 to 14.4 percent in 1993.
E. Summary Assessment and Performance Indicators
64.       Since the late 1980s, Sri Lanka has made substantial progress in
opening up its economy, accelerating private investment, and redefining the roles
of the private and public sectors, including initiating a privatization effort.
In spite of the ethnic conflict in the North, the supply response has been
encouraging and the country has achieved high levels of economic growth.
Successful reform efforts need to continue to avoid the reappearance of
macroeconomic slippages, further reduce fiscal imbalances and impose a strict
budget constraint on the public enterprise sector, thus encouraging efficient
private investment and exports.
65.       Sri  Lanka  has  been  historically  a  top  performer  in  poverty
alleviation, reflected in unusually good social indicators and high standards of
living relative to its level of per capita income. The Government is currently
addressing the broader issue of improving the standards of living of the
disadvantaged in a sustainable manner, considering resource constraints.
Progress has also been made in developing and initiating implementation of an
environmental action program. Government commitment to tackle problems in these
two areas has drawn IDA support and pledged assistance from the donor community.
Sri Lanka will continue to require external financial support and technical
assistance to support its strategy of socially and environmentally sustainable
development.
66.       The most  important  indicators  that  IDA will use  in  assessing
performance in the macroeconomic, structural reform and project implementation
fronts are:
(a)  continued pursuit of macroeconomic stability through restrained fiscal
and monetary policies and appropriate exchange rate policies, as
agreed in the context of the PFP/ESAE program;
(b)  substantial improvements in public resource management focusing on
withdrawal of the Government from commer, .al activities and increased
efficiency in public expenditures;



- 16 -
(c)  continued progress  in addressing systemic  and project  specific
implementation factors;
(d) improved incentives for efficient private sector development through
tax reform, trade liberalization, deregulation of economic activity
and financial sector reforms;
(e) vigorous action in public enterprise reform to accelerate
privatixation of all industrial and trading public enterprises, to
reduce losses and improve performance in public enterprises that will
be divested in the medium-term, namely the railways and public
utilities;
(f) in the agricultural sector: (i) implementation of institutional and
regulatory reforms for restructuring the Mahaweli Authority, and
expansion the role of the private sector in seed and irrigation
management; (4i) expand the role, including full transfer of risk, of
the private sector in the tea and rubber plantation subsectors; and
(g)  further improvements in the efficiency of resource use in the Jana
Saviya, Mid-Day Meal and Food Stamp Poverty Alleviation programs; and
redirection of resources towards delivery of basic social services in
health and education.
67.       Provided that the Government demonstrates its commitment to needed
economic reforms, the lending program calls for three to four operations per year
over the medium-term. Quick-disbursing assistance could account for one-quarter
to one-third of total lending, depending on the degree of the Government's
adjustment  effort  and  the  country's  financial  requirements.    Effective
implementation of private macroeconomic management and structural reforms will
be central. Unsatisfactory progress in either of these two criteria will trigger
a contraction of the full IDA program to a reduced, investment-only lending
program.
PART II
THE PROPOSED CREDIT
68.       Sector Background.  In 1991, the total population of Sri Lanka was
about 17.2 million, with about 80 percent living in rural areas.   Total
population growth is around 1.1 percent per year. Water supply and sanitation
coverage expanded considerably during the 1980s, although achievements will fall
short of GOSL's "Water Decade" targets of 100 percent coverage by 1995. Coverage
figures also present an overly optimistic picture, as they include facilities
which require rehabilitation before they can provide adequate service. GOSL's
strategy now is to complete water supply and sanitation coverage in rural areas
by the year 2000.
69.       Since 1981, public sector investment in water supply and sanitation
has ranged from 2 percent to 4.6 percent of annual development expenditures. The
National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) is the main GOSL sector agency
and provides both urban and rural services. Its 1991 Corporate Strategy provides
that it should undertake rural water schemes only where large, complex piped
schemes are required, and where community-based organizations (CBOs) are



- 17 -
available and able to contribute to the costs- Smaller schemes, and all handpump
and protected well schemes, are expected to be developed by CBOs, with the
assistance of Pradeshiya Sabhas (i.e., local governments) and/or non-government
organizations. This approach is consistent with GOSL's historical comitment to
delivering social services. Budget resources are currently constrained, and are
likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Therefore, GOSL is broadening
the scope of its cost-recovery strategy to include recovery of all operation and
maintenance cost, as well as part of the capital costs of the rural water supply
schemes.
70.       IDA's strategy in the rural water supply sector is to support the
-        Government's newly adopted policy of relying more heavily on self-financed
schemes Implemented and managed by the communities themselves. A Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Study vas completed in 1988 with funding provided
by UNDP, and the World Bank acting as Executing Agency.  The Study highlighted
various problems in the sector, including a failure to adequately program needed
works,  inconsistent  standards,  and poor maintenance.    To rectify  these
weaknesses, the Study recommended the formulation of a District Development Plan
(DDP) for each of the country's 25 Districts. The DDPs would outline plans to
meet water and sanitation needs and would be prepared in conformance with agreed
standards and criteria. The Study also recommended more use of CBOs at all
stages of project planning, implementation and operation and maintenance with a
view to increasing the sense of local "ownership" of schemes, and to enhance the
potential  for  sustainability.    These  recommendations  were  accepted  and
preparation of DDPs has been completed for the three Districts included in the
proposed project, i.e., Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura. Donors have provided
funding for the preparation of DDPs for most other Districts; however, for the
eight Districts located in the north, DDPs are not yet being prepared as they are
inaccessible due to security reasons.
71.       Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Operations. IDA has not previously
been involved in community-based water supply in Sri Lanka. However, experience
from other IDA-financed rural projects in M4alawi, Lesotho, Pakistan, Ghana, and
Maharashtra State in India supports the community-based approach. The project
would complement IDA's ongoing Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 2231-CE, approved
April 1991) which is expected to generate experience in funding works through
NGOs and Pradeshiya Sabhas.
72.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA has played a major role in
developing interest in the community-based approach, initially through the 1988
*        Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study, and more recently through the
preparation of the three DDPs for this project. The proposed project would
complement the ongoing Municipal Management Project (Cr. 1697-CE) which is
currently being restructured to strengthen the capacities of local governments.
This has given IDA a comparative advantage in supporting the initial stage of the
institutional and policy reforms that would be introduced under the proposed
project.
73.       Pro1ect Ob1ectives. The project's objectives would be to: (a) develop
systems and institutions for community-based planning, implementation, and
operation and maintenance for cost-effective and sustainable water supply,
sanitation, and hygiene education; (b) implement community-based schemes in rural
areas and smaller towns of Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura Districts; and
(c) prepare a follow-up project which would apply the community-based approach
to complete water and sanitation coverage to the above three Districts as well



- 18 -
as to expand coverage to other Districts.   This approach will augment and
stimulate the capacity of NGOs and the public sector to implement water and
sanitation projects, and will result in improved health and welfare.
74.       Proiect Descrigtion. The project would provide a program of water and
sanitation  investments to be implemented over five years.   The project
implementation agencies (Partner Organizations) would include non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), the NWSDB and Pradeshiya Sabhas. The POs would help create
CBOs comprising the beneficiaries of the individual water and sanitation schemes.
The CBOs would be actively involved in the planning, design and implementation
of the schemes.   They would contribute cash and/or communal labor for the
construction and assume responsibility for operation and maintenance and for
collection of charges from the beneficiaries. The project would include:
(a)  program  development  to  publicize  the  program,  assess  Partner
Organizations, register CBOs, conduct project planning and release
funds (US$1.0 million);
(b)  potable water program which would provide about 75 percent coverage
in the three Districts by the year 1998. It includess (i) supply to
approximately 0.65 million people (from protected wells, handpump
wells, spring source gravity schemes, and pumped supplies), maximizing
use of CBOs; and (ii) funding for POs to develop subprojects (US$17.2
million);
(c)  sanitation program including:  (i) grants for CBOs to establish
revolving funds for latrine construction by members of the community;
and (ii) latrines in schools and pre-school institutions in the
project Districts (US$1.9 million);
(d)  hygiene education through the Ministry of Health, POs and CBOs in the
form of training for staff, provision of equipment and training
materials, ane media campaigns (US$1.5 million);
(e) training for the Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit (CWSPU)
and those entities engaged in project implementation, including rural
maintenance technicians and local officials (US$0.4 million);
(f)  project management through the establishment, equipping and operation
of the CWSPU, and creating a revolving fund to promote private sector
participation in the water supply systems, including maintenance
(US$3.3 million); and
(g)  technical assistance for capacity building to provide: guidance -nd
assistance to the CWSPU for preparation, testing and evaluation;
specific studies (e.g., on improving water quality from wells,
hydrology of micro-catcbment areas); and preparation of a follow-up
project to expand coverage to other Districts (US$7.0 million).
75.       ProLiect Implementation.  Overall management, coordination, appraisal
and funding of schemes would be provided by the CWSPU which has been established
within the Ministry of Housing and Construction. Implementation of the proposed
project would be carried out by the POs in coordination with CBOs, NGOs, NWSDB,
end Pradeshiya Sabhas. The project was prepared using US$700,000 of funding from
IDA's Project Preparation Facility. The project cost is estimated at US$32.3



- 20 -
negativo environmental impact ares depletion of wster sources; pollution problems
arising from increased water use and related sullage disposal; and groundwater
pollution by latrines. To guard against potential environmental degradation, the
agreed criteria for the water and sanitation schemes require an evaluation of the
impact to the environment. For those schemes which have a potential negative
impact  on  the  environment,  corresponding  mitigation  measures  would  be
incorporated in the design of the schemes.
79.       Prgiect Benefits.   The project would provide improved water and
sanitation services to about 650,000 people living in the rural areas, and to a
lesser extent, small towns. Most of the beneficiaries have incomes that are less
than half the average per capita income in Sri Lanka. Women, especially, would
benefit as they are the main water carriers. Because the average household to
be served by the project presently spends around two hours per day collecting
water, a significant part of the women's time could be put to more productive
use. The provision of increased quantities and better quality of water for
domestic consumption, better sanitation facilities and health education would
improve health conditions and reduce mobility and mortality associated with
intestinal parasitic disease. These benefits, however, are not included in the
economic analysis. Based on quantifiable benefits, the economic rate of return
for the water schemes is estimated at 21 percent.
80.       Risls.  The main risks are that: (a) adequate local institutional
capacity might not develop fast enough to utilize the funds during the agreed
implementation period; and (b) the CWSPU may not be provided with the necessary
autonomy to allocate funds on the basis of the agreed criteria. As the project
would implement a strategy to involve the communities in the planning, cost
sharing, implementation, and operation and maintenance of schemes, technical
assistance and training, as needed, would be provided to help the POs mobilize
the communities. Physical investments would be undertaken only after communities
have been prepared, and formal commitments made, with regard to the above
principles. The CWSPU would be required to adhere to the agreed criteria for the
selection of POs and schemes. This would be closely monitored through formal
joint IDA/GOSL reviews of project policies, criteria and implementation progress.
81.       The sustainability of investments in rural water supply would be at
risk if there were inadequate institutional and funding arrangements for
operation and maintenance. This risk would be minimized through measures to:
upgrade local skill levels through training; strengthen administrative
arrangements by which communities assume responsibility for operation and
maintenance; promote private sector participation in operation and maintenance;
and maximize revenues through design improvements which reduce operation and
maintenance costs.
82.       Recommendatio.  I sm satisfied that the proposed development credit
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attacbments                                           By Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
Noveaber 16, 1992



- 19 -
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$8.2 million
equivalent (25 percent) and taxes and duties estimated at about US$1.5 million
equivalent. The Association would finance US$24.3 million equivalent, or about
75 percent of project costs, covering 100 percent of the foreign exchange and 67
percent of local costs. A breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are
shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements,
and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B.  A timetable of key
project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Sri Lanka
are presented in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map (IBRD No. 23635) is also
attached.   The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 10571-CE, is being distributed
separately.
76.       Proiect Sustainability. A basic project objective would be to develop
sustainable water supplies by ensuring a high degree of community ownership of
schemes.     Experience  of  other  Bank-financed  projects  indicates  the
appropriateness of community participation when the project design calls for
interaction among beneficiaries as a basis for identifying their needs and
preferences, when the implementation of the project demands frequent dialogue and
negotiation among beneficiaries, and when the end users are better able to manage
delivery of services. Similarly, experience shows that communities that have
been actively involved in scheme preparation and have contributed directly to the
construction effort are more likely to properly operate and maintain the
facilities. In addition, by providing incentives for private sector involvement
in the maintenance of the systems, project sustainability is ensured because the
private sector would not be dependent on budgetary allocations. The CWSPU would
be a pilot entity for facilitating community-based water supply projects, and
would be transformed into a more permanent agency if the process proves
successful.
77.       Actions Taken and Agreements Reached. GOSL has established a National
CWSPU and a local CWSPU in the District of Ratnapura, and appointed a full-time
Director and other key staff. Two additional CWSPU offices would be established,
staffed and equipped as a condition of disbureement for each District. GOSL has
also established a National Steering Committee and three District Coordinating
Committees for each of the project Districts. The CWSPU would carry out the
monitoring and evaluation program including an in-depth annual review; assess and
select POs to help implement the project; and to select schemes for program
development, water supply, sanitation and hygiene education in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association.   The policies, design and scheme
criteria would also apply to other schemes undertaken by GOSL and/or other donors
in the project area. Each PO would select CBOs in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Association. CBOs would contribute at least 20 percent of
the direct capital cost of each water supply scheme (except for tubewells where
the contribution would be 10 percent), and assume responsibility for operation
and maintenance, including the collection of tariffs and charges from
beneficiaries. GOSL would establish charges from beneficiaries on piped schemes
sufficient to cover the cost of operation and maintenance and the larger of
depreciation or debt service. As a condition of effectiveness, CWSPU would sign
a contract with a consulting firm to provide technical assistance for capacity
building.
78.       Environmental Aspects.   The provision of safe drinking water and
improved sanitation would have positive environmental effects in the form of
better hygiene, less stream and groundwater pollution, and greater community
awareness of the importance of a clean environment. Three potential areas of



- 21 -
Schedule A
SRILAK
COgMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local   Foreign  Total
Proiect Costs
Program Development          0.7    0.1       0.8
Water Supply                11.1    2.1      13.2
Sanitation                   1.4    0.0       1.4
Hygiene Education            1.0    0.2       1.2
Project Management           2.0    0.6       2.6
TA and Training              1.7    4.0       5.7
Base Cost                   17.9    7.0      24.9
Physical Contingencies       1.4    0.5       1.9
Price Contingencies          4.8    0.7      5.5
Total Prolect Cost          24.1    8.2      32.3
Note: The above costa include an estimated
US$1.5 million in taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
Government of Sri Lanka      5.5    0.0       5.5
Communities                  2.5    0.0       2.5
IDA                         16.1    8.2     24.3
Total Project Cost          24.1    8.2      32.3
mm   .m



- 22 -
Schedule B
Vage 1 of 2
COIMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Erocurement Method and Disbursements
(US$ million)
A.  UQROCEMENT METHOD
PROJECT ELEMENT                 ICB      LCB     Other      NBF a/    TOTAL
Cost
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-
1. Civil Works                           5.0       8.2b/               13.2
(3.2)    (5.3)                (8.5)
2. Goods                         0.3     3.4       2.8                  6.5
(0.3)   (2.3)     (1.8)               (4.4)
3. Training and                                   10.7       0.7       11.4
Technical Assistance                         (10.2)               (10.2)
4. Revolving Fund                                  1.2                  1.2
and PPF                                       (1.2)                (1.2)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__
TOTAL                            0.3     8.4      22.9       0.7       32.3
(0.3)   (5.5)    (18.5)              (24.3)
Notes Figures in parentheses ( ) are the amounts to be financed by IDA,
including contingencies. Other costs include small works performed by
POsICBOs, small purchases by POs/CBOs, contract staff costs and IDA's
consultant selection procedures.
A/ Not Bank financed.
bl Includes latrine construction by beneficiary households.



- 23 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
COtIITY WATER SUPPLT AID    TATION ROJECT
Proceu .ent ttethed aud Disbureementg
3. PDISBIR8BENT AtRRUKT
--------------------------------------------------------------_----._--------__------
Category                             Amount             2 of 5xpenditures
(SDR milliou)       to be Financed
(1) Badula District
(a) Civil Works                    2.10           652 of expenditures
(b) Goods                          1.05           1002 of foreign expeuditures;
1002 of ex-factory cost of
local expenditures; 652 of other
local expenditures
(2) llatara District
(a) Civil Works                    1.40          652 of expenditures
(b) Goods                          0.70           1002 of foreign expenditures;
1002 of ex-factory cost of
local expendituresl 652 of other
local expenditures
(3) Ratnapura District
(a) Civil Works                    2.10          652 of expenditures
(b) Goods                          1.05           1001 of foreign expenditures;
1002 of ex-factory cost of
local expenditures; 652 of other
local expenditures
(4) Program Unit operating
costs                              1.10           1002 of expenditures
(5) Consultants services
and trainlig                       5.55           1002 of expenditures
(6) Refunding of Project
preparation Facility               0.50           1002 of expenditures
(7) Unallocated                        1.35
TOTAL                                   a
Retmated IDA Disbursements.
IDA FY       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
-----_----------USS million----------------
Annal         2.4    1.7    3.4    4.9    5.8    5.6    0.5
Cuulative    2.4    4.1    7.5   12.4   18.2   23.8   24.3



- 24 -
Schedule C
SRX L
CQYITY= WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Timetable o£ Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:     October 1990 - October 1992
(b)  Prepared by:                           Foreign and local consultants with IDA
assistance
(c)  First IDA mission:                     October 1990
(d) Appraisal mission departure:            February 1992
(e)  Post-appraisal mission:                June 1992
(f)  Negotiations:                          August 1992
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         March 1993
(h) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:
Credit No.                   Proiect                    Date         Report No.
Cr.  709-CE       First Water Supply Project           6/88          PPAR No. 6628
Cr. 1041-CE       Second Water Supply and              5/88          PCR No.  7236
Sewerage Project
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in
February 1992, and a post-appraisal mission in June 1992.  Project team members
included Ms. Lea Donaldson, Task Manager, post appraisal (SA3EI) and Mr. George
Plant (EA2EH), Task Manager, appraisal; Mr. Frank Mitchell (SAlEI); Mr. Mohinder
Virdy (ASTIN); Mrs. Janice W. Palenzuela (SA3EI); Mr. Patrick McCarthy and Ms. Julie
Viloria (Consultants) from the International Development Association; and Mr. Jens
Bjerre (UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program, New Delhi). The report has
been endorsed by Messrs. Paul Isenman (Director, Country Department III, South Asia
Region), and Per Ljung (Chief, Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department III, South Asia Region). The Peer Review team comprised Messrs.
A. Wright, and A. Kennefick focussing on technical and financial elements, and Ms.
A. Kudat, focussing on aspects of women in development and community involvement.
Ms. Kim Pimenta (SA3EI) assisted in the production of this report.



- 25 -
THE STAtUS OF SUK GROUP OPEMM ATIOS IN SRI LANA SAle 0
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDtTS                                   Pag. 1 of 2
(As of Septar*er 30, 1992)
Amount in US  illion
(less cancellations)
Loan or     Fiscal                                                                  Unis-
Credit No.     Yer      Borrow               PurpolaA    bursed
12 loan and 40 credits haw been fully disbursed                    131.1     512.0
Cr. 1S37-SRI     1963    Sri Lanka  Najor Irrigation Retab                    17.0        8.5
Cr...1692-SRI   1986    Sri Laa   Irstrial Oew It    -  -                     20.0        1.5
Cr. 1697-SRI    1906    Sri Lanka  Ibisipal Managemt                          13.0        6.2
Cr. 1698-SRt    1963    Sri Lank   Seed Vocatial Training                    15.0       11.2
Cr. 1700-SRI    1986    Sri Lanka  Vater Supply and Sanitation                37.0       20.5
cr. 1736-SRI     1987    Sri Lanka  Ninth PotQr                               52.0       24.2
Cr. 1776-SRI    1967    Sri Lanka  Agricutture Rehsesr                        18.6       15.5
Cr. 1860-SRI     1987    Sri Lanka  Thfrd S tll &  ed Industries              20.0        1.5
Cr. 1883-SRI    1968    Sri Lanka  Emegeny Rtocn 4 Rehb                       78.0       44.0
Cr. 1903-SRIt   199    Sri Lanka  Health & Famitly Plaming                    17.5       16.2
Cr. 1909-SRI    1989    Sri LanrA   W* gltholdsr Rtber lehb                   23.5       16.5
Cr. 1933-SRI    1989    Sri Lana   Power Distrib & tranmision                 40.S       35.6
Cr. 1948-SRI     1989    Sri Lanka  Third industrial DOeveopm                 43.8       12.6
Cr. 203-SRI      1969    Sri Lanka  Fortry Itt                                19.9       19.7
cr. 2072SRI      1990    Sri Lanka  Geerat Education                          49.0       51.7
* Cr. 2128-SRI     1990    Sri Lanka  Ecomic Restruc. Credit                    90.0        4.4
Cr. 2183-SRI     1991    Sri Lanka  3rd Roads                                 42.5       38.9
* Cr. 2185-SRI     1991    Sri Lanka  Public Naiuf. Enter. AdJust.             120.0       66.2
Cr. 2231-SRI     1991    Sri Lanka  Poverty.Atleviation                       57.5       55.8
Cr. 2249-SRI     1991    Sri Lanka  Telecomms II                              S7.0       57.2
Cr. 2250-SRI     1°91    Sri Lanka  SMI IV                                    45.0       39.1
Cr. 2260-SRI     1991    Sri Lanka  National Irrigation Rehab.                29.6       31.3
Cr. 2297-SRI    1992    Sri Lanka  Power Distribution                         50.0       52.1
Cr. 2380-SRIb   1992    Sri Lanka  Agriculture Extension II                   14.3       15.2
Total                                                131.1    1482.7 *>  645.6
of which has been repaid                            9.2       24.9
Total now held by Sank and IDA                        31.9    145t.8
Anmomt sotd                3.59
of which repaid          3.S9
Total undisbursed                                                         64S.6
a> The principal amownts of IDA credits are shown in US Dollar equivalent at date of
negotiations, as shown in the Presidentvs Report. Undisbursed amounts shown in US
Dollar equivalent are value at the exchange rate applicable on the date of this statement.
In same cases, therefore, the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount
greater than the original principal credit amount expressed in dollars.
bW Not yet effective
* Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits



- 26 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Septeufer 30, 1992)
Fiscal
Year              Obligor                tusinesa           Loan Equity  Total
1978,   Developunt Filnance         Developmnt Finance      0.00   0.21   0.21
1980,   Corporation of Cey(on
1983
1978,   Bank of Ceylon              Developmt Finance       0.75   0.00  0.75
1981
1981    Lanka Hotels                 Tourism                1.80   0.64  2.44
1988    UAL                         m" and Capital          0.00   0.48  0.48
tlarket
1991    CDIC                        Dewlopueant Financ      0.00   3.10  3.10 a>
1992    C.l.N. Furd .  _agement      Financial Services     0.00   0.06  0.06
1992    Pyramid Unit Trust           Finnmcial Serviees     0.00   0.25   0.25
Total Gross Cauitmeents                             2.55   4.74   7.29
Total Coaitments now held by IFC                    2.55   4.74  7.29
Total Undisbursed
(inetuding participant's portion)                   0.00   3.10  3.10
a> Approved projects but not yet signed.



IBRD 23635
I~~~A'R.O T                                                                                                              SRI LANKA
-               0'  olool~~~~~~~~~wO ~~COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION  PROJECT
ORTH                              E N   R A Lio ~!C EPROJECT DISTRICTS
W E               R N                                                                                                                        MMADRSE -
0   Sa8ECrBOTONSAE
K~~(<BADULLA~~~~~~.  '-~~~~A~~~' ~-                                           MAJINIOADS (AnEAJ
-  C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~EIZVAIIONS IN MUM.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
70 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~7
7'         t~~~~~~~~~~~~<'~
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT
cotoAeo                                             MON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE 
60                                                                                                                                 odblb~~~ol,V.oofooodlb.   hI\NUW  Iod
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       2
INDIA~~~~~~~~AF  9



