.K  (1 ,    '      (/  (
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re1cwr t. No. 10:1571- .      Tv e : ( S P30
i t I :  L? COMMUN I TYf Wf^iTEFR 'iJPPLY  fNID
/Out huIrJ-  PLON fif r, ps                                   Report No. 10571-CE
;. t:   D   I /Poo f: I'  0h2  be)nt .: 0t . f
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 16, 1992
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforknance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1992)
Sri Lanka Rupee (SLR)      =    100 paisa
US$1.00                    =    SLRs 44.0
SLRs                       =    US$0.023
SDRs                       =    US$1.44618
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm                 millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
m           =      meter (1 meter = 3.28 feet)
km          =      kilometer (1 kilometer = 0.62 miles)
km2         =      square kilometer (1 km2 = 0.368 square miles)
ha          =      hectare (1 hectare = 10,000 square meters = 2.47acres)
1           =      liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
led         =      liters per capita per day
m3                 cubic meters (220 Imperial gallons or
264.2 US gallons)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         =      Asian Development Bank
CBO         =      Community-Based Organization
CWSPU       =      Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit
DANIDA      =      Danish International Development Agency
DDP         =      District Development Plan
FINNIDA            Finnish International Development Agency
GOSL        =      Government of Sri Lanka
MHC                Ministry of Housing and Construction
MOH         =      Ministry of Health
NGO         =      Non-Governmental Organization
NWSDB       =      National Water Supply and Drainage Board
OAP         =      Operational Action Plan
PO          =      Partner Organization
PPF         =      Project Preparation Facility
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
COMTfIY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...       .....................   .           iii
I.    THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ...............    1
A.    Sector Background .1....                 .                     1
B.    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels               2
C.  Sector Institutions                   .....2
D.    Sector Constraints 3.                                          3
E.    Government Strategy for the Sector             .5
F.    External Financing of Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation. .......                                       6
G.  Previous IDA Experience.                                         6
H.  Rationale for IDA Involvement.                                   7
II.   THE PROJECT .............................................            7
A. Project Origin               ..                                   7
B. Area to be Served ..                                              7
C. Project Objectives              ..                                9
D.  Project Description            ..                                9
E. Proj ct Costs   ..12
F.    Financing Plan .... .          .....                          13
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ..14
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in
February 1992, and a post-appraisal mission in June 1992. Project team members
included Ms. Lea Donaldson (SA3EI) - Task Manager, post-appraisal and Mr. George
Plant (EA2EH) - Task Manager, appraisal; Mr. Frank Mitchell (SA1EI);   Mr.
Mohinder Virdy  (ASTIN); and Mrs. Janice W. Palenzuela  (SA2i); Mr. Patrick
McCarthy and Ms. Julie Viloria (Consultants); from the Internationtal Development
Association; and Mr. Jens Bjerre (UNDP/World Bank Water Regional Group, New
Delhi). The report has been endorsed by Messrs. Paul Isenman (Director, Country
Department III, South Asia Region), and Per Ljung (Chief, Energy and
Infrastructure Operations Division). The Peer Review team comprised Messrs. A.
Wright, and A. Kennefick focussing on technical and financial elements, and Ms.
A. Kudat, focussing on aspects of women in development and community involvement.
Ms. Kim Pimenta (SA3EI) assisted in the production of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........................    .......... ..  16
A.    Imarlementation Strategy..........         ..                 16
B.  Status of Preparation                   .. ...  17
C.    Implementation Plan and Schdule              . . .17
D.    Procurement. ...... .......... . .. .21
E.    Disbursements .......... . ...............                    23
F.    Accounts and Audit          .. . .24
G.    Monitoring, Evaluation, Supervision         . . .25
H.    Cost Recovery and Capital Contributions        ...            26
V.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMET .27
A..    Economic Ana l,is ......      ... ..................27
3.    Environmental assessment                 . .31
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .        ...32
ANNEXES
1.    District Development PlansP....#............................    34
2.    Detailed Project Description ......        ........................    43
3.    Outline of Terms of Reference: Technical Support Z'ell  ..    50
4.    Detailed Cost Estimates ...         .       .....................    60
5.    Organization Structure:
A.    Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit .... .....   63
B.    National Steering Committee and District Coordinating
Coittees    .        .............. ................ .. .     64
6.    Provincial and Local Administration:
Table I - District of Badulla ..........................    65
2 - District of Matara ...       .........................    66
3 - District of Ratnapura ..........................    67
7.     Project Review Pzocess ............. .             .6.......    6
8.   Community Level Project Cycle                  .      .74
9.   Potential Partner Organizations    .                .75
10.    Implementation Plan and Schedule               .      .82
11.  Scheme Selection Criteria                 ..       . .83
12.  Design Criteria                 ........ .87
13.  Disbursement Schedule                      .        .90
14.    Project Monitoring Indicators                    .      .91
15.  Supervision Plan .........                         . .95
16.    Financial Statements . .  ................................    98
17.    Economic Analysis Data .....         ................    101
18.    Environmental Aspects ....... ..           ....................   105
19.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File              107
MAP:   IBRD No. 23635 - Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project:
Districts of Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura



- iii -
SRI LANA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY ARD SANITATION PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summarv
Borrowers          The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiaries:    Community-Based Organizations (CBO)
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO)
National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) and
Pradeshiya Sabhas (local governments)
Amr-unt:           SDR 16.9 million (US$24.3 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Prolect
Descrivtion:       The project would serve the populations of the rural
areas and small towns of the Districts of Badulla,
Hatara  and  Ratnapura.    It  would  comprise  seven
components: (a) program development, which consist of
the following promotion activities: publicizing the
project,   assessing   Partner   Organizations   (POs),
mobilizing CBOs and assisting them to prepare and submit
schemes for inclusion in the project; (b) water supply,
construction and/or upgrading of water supply facilities
to serve about 0.65 million people; (c) sanitation,
construction and/or upgrading of low-cost sanitation
facilities; (d) hygiene education to the benefited
population; (e) training for POs and CBOs staff, and
rural technicians on operation and maintenance of the
systems; (f) project management for establishing and
equipping the Community Water and Sanitation Program
Unit and provision of funds to promote private sector
participation in system maintenance; and (g) technical
assistance for capacity building and studies.
Benefits
and Risks:         The  project  would  represent  the  beginning  of  a
nationwide program to adopt the community-based approach
for providing rural water supply and sanitation, giving
communities more responsibility for the services
provided,  thus enhancing sustainability.    It would
improve women involvement in planning and operation and
maintenance of the schemes which will allow a quicker
response to problems, as well as improve the health of
the targeted population, and reduce the time spent by
women and children in carrying water to permit more
productive activities.   The main risks are that the
institutional capacity will not develop fast enough to
implement the project in the agreed timeframe, and the
intermediary organization might not be provided with the



- iv -
nocessary autonomy to allocate funds on the basis of the
agreed criteria.  The project addresses these risks by:
(a) providing training and technical assistancs to the
POs and recruiting appropriate staff in the project
management unit; and (b) ensuring there is strict
adherence to the agreed criteria for the selection of
partner organization and schemes.
Proiect Cost:
Local Foreign Total
US$ mtllion-----
Program Development          0.7    0.1       0.8
Water supply                11.1    2.1      13.2
Sanitation                   1.4    0.0       1.4
Hygiene Education            1.0    0.2       1.2
Project Management           2.0    0.6       2.6
Training and TA              1.7    4.0       5.7
Base Cost                   17.9    7.0      24.9
Physical Contingencies       1.4    0.5       1.9
Price ContingencLes          4.8    0.7       5.5
Total Project Cost          24.1    8.2      32.3
Note: The above costs include an estimated
US$1.5 million in t..zces and duties.
Finc-'Cinx Plan:
Government of Sri Lanka      5.5    0.0       5.5
Communities                  2.5    0.0       2.5
IDA                         16.1    8.2      24.3
Total Project Cost          24.1    8.2      32.3
.s= ===    ====
getimated Disbursements:
IDA FY       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
----    ----US$ million----------------
Annual         2.4    1.7    3.4    4.9    5.8    5.6    0.5
Cumulative    2.4    4.1    7.5   12.4   18.2   23.8   24.3
Economic Rate of Return: 21.2Z (for water schemes)
&2: IBRD No. 23635 - Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project:
Districts of Badulla, Matara, and Ratnapura



SRI LANKA
COMMUIT WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJFCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Sector Background
General
1.1       Of the 199± estimated Sri Lanka population of 17.2 million, about 80%
live in rural areas. The national population growth rate, which has averaged
1.5Z per annum between 19 1--1989, 4. projected to grow at 1.1% per annum between
1990-2000. The ratio of rural ano urban growth is not expected to change, and
the total population is projected to reach about 19.2 million in the year 2000,
of which 15.4 million (80Z) would be rural. The rural areas make a substantial
contribution to the economy of the country.   In the previous decade, major
investments were made in irrigation which openad up new agricultural land for
settlement in the central and north central provinces. Migration to urban areas
is low, and there are uo significant migration-relatea problems as in other South
Asian countries. This is due to the availability of relatively good transport
links and social services. e.g., primary and secondary schools, health centers
and hospitals.   The liberalization policies started in 1977 have had some
positive impact on urban unemployment. However, serious unemployment in the
south and central areas of the country have contributed to recent unrest and
insurgency among relatively well educated young persons. Therefore, developmen.
of these areas to create employment and services remains a priority of the
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL).
1.2       Universal free education since Independence has led to schools being
well distributed throughout the island, and accounts for the high literacy rate
(91X for men and 83X for women), compared to neighboring countries.  Health
statistics in Sri Lanka are comparable to industrialized countries, again due to
the free medical services provided.  Life expectancy is 71 years and infant
mortality is 21 per 1,000 live births.  However, the pressure on land, a long-
festering civil war, and the inability of GOSL to maintain the former levels of
preventive and curative health services manifest themselves in poor living
conditions and incidences of diseases that are partly water-related.   This
deterioration is more prominent in rural areas.
1.3       The proposed project would support GOSL's rural water supply and
sanitation program in three contiguous Districts (Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura)
in the southwest and o~outh center of the country. It would support strategies
to promote self-help and self-reliance in the development of affordable water
supply and sanitation in the small towns, rural villages and dispersed households
in the three Districts. Women who have to fetch water from available sources,
which may be a long distance away from home, resu. ing in insufficient water
supplies for adequate sanitation and preventing th..  om a more productive use
of their time, would be the main project beneficiari. . Local groups, especially



-2-
non-governmental organizations and the private sector would also play crucial
roles in the development, implementation and operation and maintenance of the
investmente arising out of the proposed project.
1.4       Although women are preiominately  responsible  for collecting  and
managing dom3astic water use as well as for household san:-tation and family
hygiene. th"&r involvement in the planning of schemes has been negligible.  It
is estimated that women average abott two hours per day in collecting water for
domestic uje.  It is imperative. t_...efore, that women become involved in the
planning process to assure that their needs are met, and to increase the
likelihood of realizing the full benefits of investments in the water and
sanitation sector.
B. Rural Water SuPD1i and Sanitation Service Levels
1.5       The 1985 World Health Organization statistics for Sri Lanka indicate
the following coverages, with Southeast Asia figures in parentheses: water
supply: urban 82% (65%) and rural 79% (47%); sanitation: urban 65% (29%) and
rural 70X (9%). The above figurea for Sri Lanka may be unreliable as they may
include unprotected shallow dug water wells and the traditional pit latrines.
Acceptable service levels in Sri Lanka are defined as households having within
250 meters, either piped systems, protected wells, or wells with handpumps.
Unacceptable service levels are defined as households with wells more than 250
meters away. For the project area as a whole, acceptable coverage is about 46%.
Matara has the highest coverage (59%), followed by Ratnapura (46%), and Badulla
(34%). About 81% of the households in the three Districts have latrines. While
this seems high. many latrines are in a poor state of repair. If only water seal
or pit type latrines in good condition are counted, coverage is reduced to 39%
in the project area.
C. Sector Institutions
1.6       There is a wide variety of institutions working in the rural water
supply and sanitation sector, eithe- as direct implementing institutions or as
supporting  institutions.    These  include;  government  institutions,  non-
governmental organizations, community-based organizations, and the private
sector. The current major government agencies in the sector are the Ministry of
Housing and Construction, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB),
the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Mahaweli Authority
(Agricultural Development Agency), Integrated Rural Development Projects, the Sri
Lanka State Plantations Corporation, and the Janata Estates Development Board.-
1.7       In the urban areas, the NWSDB and the 51 urban local authorities on
the island are the prime providers of services.   NWSDB is responsible for
planning, developmont, operation and maintenance of urban water supply and
sanitation and rural piped water supply. However, where urban local authorities
buy water in bulk 'rc. -TSDB, they are responsible for distribution, operation,
I/ The estatac        tea and tibber plantations.   The basic needs of their
laborers, are met ae part of the total remuneration package. Thcse needs are
met in a very primiti-ve, sometimes precarious way.



maintenance. billing and collection.  In rural areas, the .ay agencies are NWSDB
for water, Ministry of Health for sanitation,  and 25  local governments
(Pradeshiya Sabhas). which are predominantly rural in character.   Although
NWSDB's expenditure for water supply and sanitation is the highest of all
institutions, it has concentrated on the urban subsector, -while relying largely
on bilateral agencies for implementation of rural non-piped water supplies and
sanitation. In the estates sector, the Sri Lanka State Plantations Corporation
and the Janata Estates Development Board have responsibility for water and
sanitation within their estates.  They have received large amounts af donor
funding to improve the living conditions of resident estate w-rkers, which have
historically been extremely low.  In addition to its agriculture development
activities, the Mahaveli Authority is also responsible for all infrastructure
(including water and sanitation) in its settlements.   The Authority expects
eventually to transfer its water and sanitation responsibilities to NWSDB and the
Pradeshiya Sabhas. In. ,rated Rural Development Projects are being implemented
in each of the project Districts, including investments in water supply and
sanitation. Finally, the Central Environmental Authority monitors water quality
and pollution levels in ground and surface water.
1.8       A number of indigenous and international non-governmental agencies
have been active in providing water supply and sanitation throughout Sri Lanka.
While their record has been good, they are generally limited to implementing only
a small number of projects because of low capacit- and a paucity of funds. These
agencies have promoted the association of the beneficiaries in community-based
organizations which have been involved in water supply and sanitation projects,
organizing local contributions (including communal labor) for construction as
well as operation maintenance of the systems. The private sector is also dynamic
and healthy in the rural areas in providing water and sanitation services; all
household improvements and many small schemes are financed and constructed by
this sector.
D. Sector Constraints
1.9       There are a number of problems and issues in the sector which need to
be  addressed.    The  main  ones  are:  donor  coordination,  institutional
responsibilities, cost recovery and absorptive capacity.
1.10      Donor Coordination.   While the NWSDB is nominally responsible for
policy and technical guidance to donors, it has exercised only limited initiative
in these areas. As a result, for non-piped schemes in rural areas, donors have
tended to select specific districts or locations with little regard for either
overall regional priorities or uniform design criteria. In addition, approprilte
technologies were not always selected; as a result, since 1980 in which the Water
Decade began, over 15 different types of handpumps have been introduced by
donors. One serious drawback of this uncoordinated approach has been that NWSDB
has been unable to stock the numerous variety of spare parts required. Further
diminishing the results of donor assistance is that project implementation was
carried out by donor-appointed consultants, and bypassed the opportunity for
technology transfer and design based on local conditions, customs and practices.
The funding of a number of such projects also contravened GOSL's financial
regulations in that the funds did not pass through its budget and accounting
systems. COSL acquiesced in all of the above in the interest of perceived



-4-
increased coverage and in keeping investments flowing to the sector.   The
Government now realizes. lowever, that this approach has many drawbacks. It has.
therefore, alopted a more rational means of prioritizing investments, based on
the preparation of District Development Plans for future a..Lvestmentz. in water and
sanitation programs (para 1.17).
1.11      Institutional Issues.  The multiplicity of institutions has led to
overlapping rasponsibilities, contradictory policies, management deficiencies,
and underqualified staff. Donors use in their projects technologies available in
the developed world, which equire a level of maintenance not available in Sri
Lanka. In addition, the intended beneficiaries were unable to change behavior or
attitudes that are critical to the projects' success because of inadequate
community participation. The failure to mobilize the will of the people was the
reason why many costly facilities fell into disrepair. The preparatory work for
this project set out specifically to address these issues.
1.12      Cost Recover .  As in almost all developing countries, cost recovery
in water supply and sanitation is a recurring issue in Sri Lanka. High capital
costs, lack of consumer affordability, poor water supply service, and the notion
that water is a "free public good" have been usei to explain political resistance
tu greater cost recovery.  Policies for cost recrvery generaliy apply only to
operation and maintenance expenditures for piped schemes, with revenues collected
primarily from private connections and industrial and commercial users. Without
reasonable cost recovery, the objective of sustainability is largely defeated.
1.13      While GOSL policy for the sector clearly states that operation and
maintenance costs are to be covered completely by the consumers, the record to
date indicates otherwise.   By concentrating almost exclusively on the urban
subsector, NWSDB has now been able to achieve this goal by a cross subsidy to
other areas from Colombo (where most of Sri Lanka's industry is located).
However, it has neither the man_-wer nor fiscal resources to spare for operation
and maintenance of rural schemes. A scheme-specific charging policy for rural
water supplies appears to be a more effective method for sustainability, as
evidenced by Sri Lanka's  experience  in community-managed  schemes.    Most
community-managed schemes collect recurrent funds on an ad hoc basis, often
maintaining a small fund for use as required. A more regular system of charges
should be encouraged as well, to allow for the generation of surpluses over the
early years to help cover higher expenditures as the system ages.
1.14      It has beer the policy of non-government organizations to require
communities to contr Jute towards capital cost recovery. Typical contributions
have ranged from 1$  to 302 and can include labor and basic materials or goods
manufactured within the community.   The requirement for contributing to the
capital cost has helped raise awareness and interest in the system, leading to
more effective operation and maintenance.   Surveys carried out as part of
preparation of this project showed that all gravity systems which had been
constructed with a high degree of c -munity participation, and with a clear sense
of ownership by the community were in reasonable working order, while all the
vandalized or broken down systems had been planned and constructed by non-
participatory methods.



1.15      Absor2tive Canacity.  If NWSDB were to take on the responsibility for
implementing investments in the rural sector as well as urban areas, its capacity
would be even more strained than it is now. A more suitable role, therefove, may
be for NWSDB to be a fAcilitat*r, regulator and, if necessary, contractor for
drilling tube-wells, w    implementation being carried out by non-governmental
organizations, Pradeshiya b -bhas, z-ommminity-based organizations %rnd other private
groups.
1.16      Further factors conttibuting to sustainable projects are appropriate
management information systems and community mobilization skills. These factors
are generally weak or lacking in all the "artner Organizations, and it is
essential, therefore, to provide for a gradu;k  buildup of such systems and skills
during the project.
E.  Government Strate..   ,r the Sector
1.17      GOSL's objectives during "The International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade" were to achieve complete coverage in both urban and rural
areas by 1995. While it has made substantial progress, funding and absorptive
capacity constraints will preclude it from meeting these objectives.  GOSL's
strategy is now to complete water supply and sanitation coverage in the rural
areas by the year 2000.   The approach to be adopted is to develop District
Development Plans for water and sanitation for those Districts that have yet to
achieve the target coverages. The District Development Plans would be prepared
within a uniform set of standards, criteria and approag- as, and in confcrmity
r.th project selection and appraisal criteria already developed by NWSDB. The
preparation of at least eight such plans is underway: by the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) in the Distri:ts of Kalutera, Kegalle and Monoragala; by the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) in Anuradhapura- by the Finnish
International Development Agency (FINNIDA) in Kandy (Phase 2); and by the
Canadian International Development Agency in Galle, Kurunegala and Puttalam.
District Development Plans have recently been completed for Badulla, Matara and
Ratnapura (for the proposed project) with United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) funding, executed by the World Bank.  District Development Plans were
previously completed for Kandy (Phase 1), Matale and Polonnaruwa (DANIDA-funded),
and Hambantota (funded by the Norwegian Agency for International Development).
Of the country's 25 Districts, eight are in the north and are not being addressed
because they are inaccessible due to security reasons.
1.18      Sri Lanka was one of 115 countries which adopted the New Delhi
Statement at the Global Consultation on Safe Water and Sanitation for the 1990's
held in New nelhi in September 1990.   This statement stressed the need for
institutions . economic and social changes to create the right conditions for
accelerated progress in water supply and sanitation coverage. In particular,
reductions ir the cost of services would be achieved through increased
efficiency, the use of low-cost appropriate technologies, and the mobilization
of additional funds from new sources  (including consumers).   The "guiding
principles" recommended by the Global Consultation wet.'
(a) Protection of the environment and safeguarding ef health through the
tntegrated management of water resources and liquid and solid wastes.



-6-
(b) Institutional reforms promoting an integrated approach including
changes in behovior, and tbe full participation of women at all levels
in sector institutions.
(c)  Community management of services, backed by measures to strengthen
local institutions in implementing and sustaining water and sanitation
programs.
(d) Sound financial practices, achieved through better management of
existing assets, and widespread use of appropriate technologies.
1.19      GOSL's strategy for the sector and the proposed project are consistent
with the above principles.
F. External Financing of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.20      A number of donors have been active  n the rural water supply and
sanitation aector.   They include DANIDA, FINNIDA, the Swedish International
Development Agency, the lUnited Nations International Children's Education Fund,
the World Health Organization, Canada, China, Germany and The Netherlands. Whlle
most of the projects carried out by the above have had a community-baevt
approach, the projects have been implemented with little policy or technological
direction by GOSL or NWSDB.
0. Previous IDA Experience
, 21      IDA has had no previous experience in Sri Lanka in rural water supply
and sanitation.   Its experience in the subsector elsewhere in the Region is
limited also. Two projects were approved during FY91 including one in Pakistan
and the other in India.  Both of these projects have adopted community-based
approaches to a partial extent only for system management and operation and
maintenance of water supply schemes.  A community-based project is currently
under preparation in Nepal.
1.22      Past IDA operations in Sri Lanka have focused on improving NWSDB's
technical, financial, managerial and operating policies and practices, primarily
for the urban sector. Three projects have been approved to date. The first
project (Cr. 709-CE) of US$9.2 million, closed in December 1983, helped expand
water supply facilities in Colombo and co:%truct new facilities in Kalutera and
Ambalangoda. The second project (Cr. 1041-CE) of US$30.0 million helped further
expand the Colombo water supply system, and augmented its sewage conveyance
facilities which were cofinanced by the Saudi Fund. The credit closed in June
1986. The third project (Cr. 1700-CE) of US$37.0 million, is currently under
implementation and focuses primarily on rehabilitation of Colombo's water and
sewerage systems.
1.23      The physical works under the first two projects were implemented
satisfactorily. However, budget constraints, civil disturbances, and the limited
project management and construction capacity of NWSDB contributed to
implementation delays. Inadequate pricing policies and poor financial management
contributed to less than satisfactory financial and operational efficiency. With
financial assistance provided by the United States Agency for International



-7-
Development, an extensive managerial and financial improvement program within
NWSDB began in 1985. terminating in 1991.  This program, coupled with GOSL's
commitment to adopting pricing policies more in line with sound public utility
practices, has led to considerable improvement in NWSDB's finances and operating
efficiency.
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement
i.2'      IDA has played a major role in developing interest in the community-
based approach to water supply and sanitation. In 1987, a Rural Water Supply and
Sanitatic-. Sector Study was initiated, and more recently, District Development
Plans were prepared for the three Districts which are included in this project.
UNDP provided funding for these two efforts, and the World Bank acted as
executin, agency. The proposed project would be the catalyst to involving rural
and local communities, local governments, non-governmental organizations and
other private sector organizations in providing rural water and sanitation
services. Other agencies are following IDA's lead in preparing District
Development Plans.   The proposed project would also complement the ongoing
Municipal Management Project (Cr. 1697-CE), which is currently being restructured
to strengthen the capacities of local governments.
I1. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Oriain
2.1       The lack of policy and technical guidance being provided to donors in
the rural subsector prompted GOSL to commission a comprehensive sector study,
initiated in 1987 and pubJished in 1988. The recommendations of the study were
accepted by GOSL, and called for the development of the subsector on a district-
wise basis as the most effective ¶vay to achieve GOSL's target coverages. The
preparation of District Development Plans is expected to facilitate the rational
choice of projects on an -sgreed priority basis, as such plans would be drawn up
against a uniform set of standards, project selection and appraisal criteria.
GOSL recently commissioned the preparation of eight District Development Plans.
After these plans have been completed, GOSL would review their findings and
recommendations and further refine its policies and criteria as deemed necessary.
Annex l describes the concept of District Development Plans, and specifically,
the plans that were developed for the three Districts to be financed under the
proposed project.
B. Area to be Served
2.2       Population.   The 1991 estimated populations of the three project
Districts (Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura) are 789,000, 713,000 and 956,000,
respectively, for a total population of 2,458,000.   About 73% of the total
population is classified as rtral; another 14% lives on estates; and 13% is
urban. The total urban population includes the populations of small towns even
though they are usually considered part of the rural population. This is because
they have a high population density, a concentration cf commercial activity and
usually have less sclf-reliant social attitudes than those encountered among
typical village communities. Population growth rates of 1.07% for Badulla, 1.04%



- 8 -
for Matara, and 1.1OZ for Ratnapura are projected, giving a total projected
population in the year 2000 of 2.8 million.   The distribution of population
according to ethnicity show that 922 are Sinhalese, 22 are Indian Tamils (living
mainly on the estates), 32 are Sri Lankan Tamils, and 3Z are Muslims, living
mainly in the towns as they are largely engaged in commercial activity.
2.3       Economv.  The three project Districts are predominantly agricultural,
as evidenced by the population distribution. Tea estates are an important part
of the economy, and there are also large areas of paddy, coconut and spices under
cultivation. There are few industries. The predominant occupation in the towns
is the public service, followed by small business. The average annual per capita
income of the three Districts is SLRe 4,500. However, there are wide variations
among them, and also between the rural and urban areas. The District with the
highest per capita income is Ratnapura followed by Matara and lastly Badulla.
The average per capita income in urban areas (SLRs 6,000) is almost double that
in rural areas (SLRs 3,300). There is also a significant variation between the
unemployment rates in the three Districts. While the national rate is 13.2%, the
rates for Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura are 8.7%, 17.5% and 10.8%, respectively.
2.4       Health.   The available health statistics are based on Government
hospital in-patient records only. Therefore, the prevalence of diseases is much
higher than reported, as it is estimated that between 50% and 60% of out-patient
service is provided by the private sector for which no data are available. The
Epidemiology Unit within the Ministry of Health conducts surveillance of all
"communicable diseases." There are 18 such diseases in Sri Lanka, of which four
can be identified as water and sanitation-related.   The Epidemiology Unit
estimates, however, that only 50-602 of notifiable diseases are actually
reported. The number of cases and deaths (in parenthesis) due to water and
sanitation-related diseases in 1989 was as follows: Badulla - 5,449 (62); Matara
- 4,675 (51); and Ratnapura - 8,355 (54).
2.5       Among the three Districts, Hatara has the best health indices which
are better than the national averages. In contrast, the health indicators for
Badulla and Ratnapura show a poor standard of health compared to Sri Lanka as a
whole, most notably the infant mortality rate, which is approximately 40% higher
than  the national  averale.    This  could be attributed  to the  less  than
satisfactory health and sanitary conditions in the plantation sector, as the
proportion of plantation population is higher in Badulla and Ratnapura compared
to Matara.
2.6       Geoloyv and Water Resources.   Sri Lanka's land area (66,000 km2),
comprises a wet zone (a quarter of the land area) in the southwest and the
remainder, a dry zone with about half the annual rainfall (1,400 mm) of the wet
zone. Part of the dry zone (the north central province) has an extensive system
of canals and storage tanks for irrigation purposes dating back to ancient times.
2.7       Although the three project Districts are contiguous, there are wide
variations in their geology and water resources. Badulla's eastern and northern
areas are in the dry zone, while the west and south are in the mountain and
highland plateau regions, with elevations over 1,500 meters. The average annual
rainfall is about 2,000 mm. Its ground and surface water resource potential is



- 9 -
good. The District of Matara extends from the southwest coastline of Sri Lanka
directly north to elevations of about 600 meters. Water in the coastal belt is
brackish, while in the north, surface water becomes scarce in the dry season.
The average annual rainfall is about 2,400 mm.   In Ratnapura,  the central
mountain range in the north of the District, with elevations over 1,500 meters,
provides many streams, springs and waterfalls. With an annual average rainfall
of 2,800 mm, Ratnapura is the most water-abundant of the three Districts.
2.8       The  topographical,  climatological,  geomorphological  and  hydro-
geological features of the project area tere analyzed to assess the relative
potential for different water source types, supplemented by data from surveys.
Within each District, areas of good potential for gravity shallow groundwater,
deep groundwater and pumped  (surface water)  sources were delineated.   As
relatively small quantities of water are required for domestic rural water
supply, -the planning approach adopted for the project was to estimate the likely
distribution among the different sources required for serving the population.
Most people prefer water from open shallow wells for drinking, where available.
However, groundwater levels in the dry zone are deep and the coastal belt suffers
from saline intrusion.
C. Prolect Obiectives
2.9       The  project  objectives  would  be  to:  (a)  develop  systems  and
institutions for community-based planning, implementation, operation and
maintenance of cost-effective and sustainable water supply and sanitation;
(b) implement community-based schemes in rural areas and smaller towns of
Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura Districts; and (c) prepare a follow-up projact
which would apply the community-based approach, to be developed and tested during
this project, to complete the coverage in the above Districts, and to extend this
approach to the rest of the country. Lessons learned during its implementation
will be carefully monitored and adjusted as required to meet the objectives by
the most efficient and cost-effective methods.
D. Pro1ect Description
2.10      The project would form part of a program of rural water and sanitation
investments to be implemented over five years (para 4.5) by a variety of agencies
according to criteria and procedures.   The project implementation agencies
(Partner Organizations - POs) would include, inter alia, non-governmental
organizations (NG0s), the NWSDB and Pradeshiya Sabhas. The POs would help c-eate
community based organizations (CB0s) comprising the beneficiaries of the
individual water and sanitation schemes. The CBOs would be actively involved in
the planning, design and implementation of the schemes. They would contribute
cash and/or communal labor for the construction and assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance and for collection of charges from the beneficiaries.
The project would, in principle, cover all parts of the Districts of Badulla,
Matara and Ratnapura, except for 12 townse with water supply systems which are
serviced by NWSDB or where water and sanitation improvements are now being
t/   Badulla, Balangoda, Bandarawela, Devinuwara, Dikwella, Diyatalawa,
Eheliyagoda, Kahawatta, Kamburupitiya, Matara, Ratnapura and Weligama.



- 10 -
financed by other donors. Agreement was reached during negotiation that the
policies, criteria and procedures adopted for the proposed project would also
apply to any other schemes undertaken by GOSL and/or other donors in the above
Districts to ensure consistency of approach tpara 6.1 (a)].
2.11      A detailed description of the project is given in Annex 2.   The
various components of the project are summarized below:
(a) Proaram Development (US$1.0 million). This component would finance
the following promotion activities: publicizing the project, assessing
Partner Organization (POs), registering Community-based Organizations
(CBOs), and project planning and management. A Community Water and
Sanitation Program Unit (CWSPU), has been established in the Ministry
of Housing and Construction (paras 3.1 - 3.3) to implement this
component.
(b)  Water  SuDDlY  (US$17.2  million).    Depending  on  specific  scheme
selection by CBOs,  the project would provide  potable water  to
approximately 650,000 people in up to 2,700 villages and 17 small
towns. Supply would be from protected wells (about 290,000 people),
handpump wells (about 140.000), spring-source gravity schemes (about
140,000), and pumped supplies (about 80,000). Choice of technology
would be made on the basis of the local hydrological and
hydrogeological situation, and an analysis of cost-effectiveness of
supply according to agreed scheme criteria (para 4.11).  The least
cost technical solution would be the base case to ensure as much
coverage as possible with the resources available.
(c) Sanitation (US$1.9 million). The project would provide:
(i) funds for improved sanitation facilities in the form of grants to
eligible CBOs on the basis of proposals from POs and CBOs. The
grants would be used to establish revolving funds for loans to
individuals in the community to construct latrines.   On the
assumption that 80X of villages apply for latrines, plus some
villages now with adequate water supply coverage, this program
would cover about 3,800 villages plus 17 small towns in the
project area;
(ii)  latrines in all 224 rural schools in the project Districts which
currently lack them, and upgrading of existing latrines in about
half of the remaining 1,314 rural schools. (This program would
complement the IDA-funded General Education Project, Cr. 2072-CE,
which is providing a limited number of latrines to schools in
rural areas, island-wide); and
(iii) latrines in up to 1,000 pre-schools.
(d)  Hvaiene Education (US$1.5 million).  Realization of expected health
benefits from the project will depend heavily upon a successful
program of hygiene education on sanitation practices. The proposed
hygiene education program would provide for:



- 11 -
(i)  media campaigns on health and sanitation-related issues by the
Ministry of Health;
(ii) training in hygiene and orientation of Ministry of Health staff,
school teachers, CBO members, community leaders and volunteer
workers  in  all  communities,  with  specific  attention  to
comunities for which MWSDB and Pradeshiya Sabhas are likely to
be the Partner organization, including purchase of audio visual
equipment;
(iii)  vehicles,  audio  visual  equipment  and  software,  including
specialized training to selected health staff of the hygiene
education offices dealing with proj.ct Divisions administered by
Divisional Government Agents (para 3.8); and
(iv) training and the provision of equipment and educational materials
to NGO staff who undertake hygiene education in the communities
which they are helping to organize.
(e)  Training  (US$0.4 million).    The training program would  develop
implementation, operation and maintenance capacity for water and
sanitation facilities constructed under the project.   The project
would fund extensive training for CBO and P0 staff; and rural
technicians who would undertake future operation and maintenance
responsibilities; orientation of locally elected officials, public
servants and community leaders; and staff of the CWSPU (to include
overseas and local training). The training budget would also include
periodic workshops on program experience and development of
methodology.
(f)  Prolect Management (US$3.3 million).  The project wouiJ include the
establishment, equipping and operation of the CWSPU, with a staff in
Colombo and branch offices in each of the three project Districts.
All CWSPU costs are being treated as project investment costs (i.e.,
salaries and allowances of government-appointed staff, fees and
allowances of contract staff, furniture, equipment and recurrent
costs); however, only contract staff costs, equipment and office
furniture would be eligible for financing from the IDA credit
proceeds. This component also would provide funds (US$0.5 million)
to be managed by CWSPU to promote private sector participation in
maintenance of the systems.  The promotion would  include several
workshops for rural private technicians on how prepare maintenance
contracts, and would create a revolving fund to provide loans for
tools and equipment.
(g)  Technical Assistance (US$7.0 million).   This component consists of
technical assistance for capacity building of CWSPU and studies, it
includes funding for:
(i) a Technical Support Cell (para 3.5) to advise the CWSPU on all
aspects of its operations, including assistance with preparation,
testing and revision of training materials. Terms of reference



- 12 -
for the Technical Support Cell are shown in Annex 3. CWSPU has
already selected the Consultants 'ho are in the process of
signing the contract. IDA had not obection to the selection.
(ii)  a package of studies and applied rese  rch to complement project
activities.   Subjects foreseen inclade:  (a) means to ensure
cleanliness of water from protected wells (covering both
technical and behavioral variables); (b) hydrology and management
of micro-catchment areas; (c) improvements to planning and
evaluation procedures for project implementation; (d) pilot
catchment protection measures for selected schemes; and (e)
technical development work (ferrocement tanks, latrine design).
Terms of reference for studies undertaken will be developed as
per the timetable in an Operational Action Plan (para 4.14).
(iii)  a preparation package to develop a future follow-up project
incorporating the lessons learned and experiences gained from the
community-based water supply and sanitation approach of this
project. Terms of reference for such a preparation consultancy
will be developed and consultants selected as per the timetable
in an Operational Action Plan (para 4.14).
E. Prolect Costs
2.12      Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
SLRs 1,419.4 million (US$32.3 million). The foreign exchange component is SLRs
362.9 milllon (US$8.2 million), or 251 of project costs.  Taxes and duties are
estimated at SLRs 66.5 million (US$1.5 million), or 4.6% of project costs.
2.13      The base cost estimates reflect price levels p.:evailing in July 1992.
The estimates have been based upon: (a) actual ccsts of recent similar works
carried out by NWSDB, donors, and NGO programs for each type of facility; (b)
preliu4.nary engineering designs for 150 schemes comprising all hydrological and
hydrogeological situations in the project Districts; and (c) recent quotations
from suppliers of materials and equipment.  Estimates of program development
costs and of costs of design and supervision have been based on the preparation
consultant's detailed discussions with NGOs and NWSDB. Physical contingencies
of 10X on civil works, and 5% on equipment, materials and technical assistance
have been allowed. To provide for inflation during project implementation, the
following escalation rates have been used: for local expenditures, 9.4% in 1992,
7.5% in 1993, 6.5% in 1994, 6% in 1995 and 5% iiL 1996 and 1997; for foreign
expenditures, 2.8% in 1992, 3.9Z in 1993 and 1994, and 3.8% from 1995 to 1997
inclusive. Foreign exchange conversions have been calculated in accordance with
World Bank guidelines, using projections prevailing at the time of appraisal. A
summary of cost estimates is given in Table 2.1 below. Detailed cost estimates
are provided in Annex 4.



- 13 -
Table 2.1: Summary Cost Estimates
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -----    -                                         _- ___________________
Percentage
ITEM                        Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Foreign   Base
- (SLRs million)-          - (US$ million)---    Exchange  Cost
PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT         28.8      2.7       31.5    0.65      0.06    0.71     8.6       2.9
WATER SUPPLY               489.5    92.9       582.4    11.1      2.1     13.2     16.0     53.2
SANITATION                  61.0      0.7       61.7     1.4      0.0     1.4      0.0       5.6
HYGIENE EDUCATION           42.1      7.4       49.5     1.0      0.2     1.1      15.0      4.5
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
CWSPU                      78.0    13.2        91.2     1.0      0.4      1.3    28.8       5.4
Revolving Find              8.8     13.2       22.0     1.0      0.2      1.2     17.4      5.0
TRAINING                    10.7      4.2       14.9    0.2      0.1      0.3      28.1      1.4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & STUDIES
Pr. Prep. Facility          4.7    24.6        29.3    0.1       0.6     0.7    83.9        2.7
Tech. Support Cell         22.2    115.8      138.0    0.5       2.6     3.1    83.9        12.6
Studies & Research         40.6    33.7        74.3    0.9       0.8      1.7    45.3       6.8
TOTAL BASE COST            786.4    308.4     1094.8    17.9      7.0    24.9      28.1     100.0
Physical Contingencies     58.8    22.9        81.7    1.3       0.5      1.9    28.0       7.5
Price Contingencies       211.3    31.6       242.9    4.8       0.7     5.5      13.0     22.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST a/      1056.5g/  362.9    1419.4g/  24.01/    8.2     32.3a/   25.5     129.7
a/ Including taxes and duties (SLRs 66.5 million or US$1.5 million)
F. Financina Plan
2.14       The proposed IDA credit of US$24.3 million equivalent would finance
about 752 of project costs net of taxes and duties, covering 100% of the foreign
exchange component and about 67% of local currency requirements. Beneficiary
contributions in cash and in kind, valued at about US$2.5 million equivalent
(7.7% of total costs) would finance civil works, materials and equipment. The
project financing plan is summarized in Table 2.2 below.
Table 2.2 : Proiect Financina Plan
Local       Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)-------
Government of Sri Lanka                   5.5           0.0          5.5
Communities                               2.5           0.0          2.5
IDA                                      16.1           8.2         24.3
Total                                    24.1           8.2         32.3
2.15       The IDA credit would be made available to GOSL on standard terms.
GOSL would pass on US$14.7 million of the credit as grants to the POs for:
(a) program development (US$0.9 million); (b) a water program (US$11.1 million);
(c) sanitation (US$1.3 million); and (d) hygiene education (US$1.4 million).
GOSL would use the balance of the credit (US$9.6 million) for: (i) training
(US$0.4 million); (ii) project management (US$2.4 million); and (iii) technical
assistance and studien (US$6.8 million).



- 14 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEKINT
3.1       Commmity Water and Sanitation Program Unit  A large number of donor
agencies have been working independent'.j in the sector without a coherent plan
which has resulted in an inequitable and wasteful distribution of resources. To
achieve GOSL's target of full coverage by the year 2000, as many agencies as
possible with expertise in the sector need to be mobilized.  While GOSL was
initially averse to setting up a new institution to coordinate and manage a new
strategy concept, it recognized that proper coordination in such a "multi-agency
approach" was essential. Therefore, the Government has established a Community
Water and Sanitation Program UnitV at the National level within the Ministry
of Housing and Construction (MHC), located in Colombo. This Program Unit would
fulfill the role of intermediary agency between GOSL and selected PO.  As a
condition of effectiveness.the National CWSPU shall be fully staffed and equipped
(para 6.2(a)).
3.2       As the intermediary organization, the CWSPU would be responsible for:
(a) implementing GOSL's policies with respect to a community-based approach to
rural water supply and sanitation; (b) ensuring adherence to proiect review
criteria; (c) coordinating the overall program; (d) contributing to policy
reformulation; (e) monitoring, reporting and revising the program as necessary;
(f) developing terms of reference for technical assistance and studies;
(g) contracting with POs for program development and implementation;
(h) exercising overall financial control; (i) assessing and registering POs and
CBOs; and (j) training. GOSL/CWSPU's policies and criteria would thus be under
periodic review and evaluation (para 4.35) to assure a structured approach to
effective and efficient project development and implementation.  The CWSPU would
have a brunch office in each of the three project Districts in addition to its
headquarters in Colombo.   In keeping with the decentralized nature of the
program, the District offices of the CWSPU would be responsible for the initial
screening of all proposals put forward by POsv With the possible exception of
proposals for the larger piped schemes, all contracts are expected to be signed
in the District offices. The National CWSPU in Colombo would be responsible for
negotiating and signing the larger contracts. It would also be responsible for
assessing the eligibility of POs to participate in the program.
3.3       A proposed organization chart of the CWSPU at the National and
District levels is shown in Annex 5. Day-to-day operations are managed by a
Director, who reports to the National Project Director (Secretary, MHC), through
the National Project Co-Director (State Secretary for Housing, MHC). A full time
Director and staff have been appointed to the National CWSPU, all with the
requisite qualifications and experience.   Key staff&  in the District  of
Ratnapura have also been appointed. As a condition of disbursement for each
District, each CWSPU District office shall be fully staffed and equiRped (para
6.3). Agreement was reached during negotiations that from time to time during
implementation, GOSL and IDA would review the composition of the CWSPU (at both
t./ The CWSPU was established using funds made available from a Project
Preparation Facility as discussed in paragraph 4.4.
i/ District Manager/Community Development Specialist, District Accountant
and District Engineer.



- 15 -
the National and District levels) to determine staffing needs (para 6.1 (b)).
The functions of the National CWSPU are expected to continue, with full
Government financing, after completion of this project.
3.4       Steering Committees.   The Government has established  a National
Steering Committee to advise and assist CWSPU.  This Committee would be the
vehicle for reportin3 implementation progress between government agencies,
dirsctly and indirectly connected with the program. The role and functions of
the National Steering Committee are: (a) policy review; (b) inter-agency
coordination; (c) overall physical and financial monitoring of project
implementation; and (d) advice and guidance on other matters relating to the
project. At the District level, each CWSPU would be supported by a District
Coorcinating Committee to oversee inter-agency coordination locally, provide
advice on distribution of resources, review physical and financial performance
and resolve any operational disputes. A District Coordinating Committee has been
established in each of the three project Districts. The composition of these
Committees is shown in Annex 5.
3.5       Technical SuDDOrt Cell.  As a new entity, the CWSPU would initially
need to be supported by technical assistance. GOSL therefore proposes to provide
the CWSPU with a Technical Support Cell, comprised of a consulting firm of
professionals, skilled and experienced in the fields of rural water supply,
sanitation, community participation and hygiene education. The Technical Support
Cell would assist in institutional development, project management (including the
development of appropriate accounting, record keeping and management information
and monitoring and evaluation systems), training, community development, hygiene
education, and engineering design. A concurrent objective would be to ensure the
implementation and commissioning of well-designed water supply schemes and
sanitation programs in which community users have been involved in the
development process and have assumed responsibility for management and operation
and maintenance. The signing of a contract with the selected consulting firm to
operate the Technical Support Cell is a condition of effectiveness (para 6.2(b)).
3.6       Government Framework.  The project would be implemented within the
national, provincial and local government framework which is still evolving.
While the final outcome remains unclear, the basic premise of the project remains
firm, i.e., the involvement of the communities themselves in the planning,
implementation and operation and maintenance of rural water supply and sanitation
services.  The eventual form of provincial and local government st;.ucture is
expected to support this objective.
3.7       The 25 Districts of Sri Lanka were phased out as political units with
the enactment of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15, in 1987. The Act allowed for
the creation of 257 Pradeshiya Sabhas, the lowest tier of locally elected self-
government in Sri Lanka. Pradeshiya Sabhas are mostly rural in character and
inter-dispersed with small towns.   The existing 12 Municipal, and 39 Urban
Councils (collectively kr,.wn as Urban Local Authorities, plus the 257 Pradeshiya
Sabhas, make up the local government structure of Sri Lanka. The 1987 Thirteenth
Amendment to the Constitution provided for the creation of a Provincial Council
syetem of Government, and currently, there are eight Provincial Councils (created
under the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987). However a referendum will be
held at a future date to determine whether the one Provincial Council for the
north and east should be split into two separate Provincial Councils.



L'   A L  J
- 16 -
3.8       Until early 1992, day-to-day administration of a District was the
responsibility of a Government Agent. The Government Agent was supported by a
Divisional Government Agent responsible for administration within a Division, of
which there are about  13 in each District. A Division also corresponds
approximately to a Pradeshiya Sabha.   The Divisional Government Agent was
originally appointed by the Center, but is now a Provincial appointee.  The
District seems destined to remain as a formal developmental area, with
development within its boundary being monitored by a committee chaired by the
Chief Secretary of the Province.   Therefore, future rural watets supply and
sanitation programs will continue to be developed on a District-wise basis, as
heretofore. Tables showing the governing Province, Divisional Government Agent
Divisions, Pradeshiya Sabhas and the small towns of each of the three project
Districts which potentially could be included in the project, are presented in
Annex 6.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Stratefv
4.1       The project would be implemented in the villages, dispersed households
and small towns in the Districts of Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura.  The new
community-based approach to project development, implementation, operation and
maintenance would require a much more extensive involvement of the community
residents in the project preparation activities.   Community ownership and
management requires the community itself to inform and educate its members on the
value of clean water, proper sanitation facilities and hygiene education
practices. To give emphasis to the community-based approach, each scheme would
have a development cycls of about three to four years, as follows:
(a)  Proiect Development Phase  (6-18 months) for community mobilization,
preparation, CBO formulation and strengthening, identification of user
groups, training, and implementation of health, hygiene and sanitation
education programs, planning, resource mobilization. The final output
of this phase is a CBO proposal developed with assistance from the
Partner organization for approval and funding of water and sanitation
scheme(s) in the CBO's village.
(b) Implementation and Construction Phase (4-10 months) for funding
approval, detailed design and construction of physical works,
operation and maintenance, skills training, cost recovery, collection
of user charges, and continuation of health hygiene and sanitation
education programs.
(c)  Operation and Maintenance/Monitoring and Evaluation Phase   (16-
19 months) for follow-up activities and strengthening in operation and
maintenance, further training of CBOs, individuals and user groups,
collection of user fees, charges, etc., and monitoring and evaluation
of village activities.  After this period, post-evaluation of the
project impact will be undertaken.
To achieve the above, the CWSPU would provide project management and enter into
contracts with: (a) POs which would mobilize and assist the CBOs., and undertake



- 17 -
hygiene education components; and (b) CBOs, which would have joint responsibility
with P0 for implementation of water and sanitation schemes, and full
responsibility for subsequent operation and maintenance.   In addition, CWSPU
would manage a fund to promote private sector participation in supporting
maintenance of the system by CBOs.
4.2       PO would be responsible for:
(a)  project development through initiating a dialogue with communities
potentially  interested  in water  supply  and  sanitation  schemes;
assisting such communities to establish CBOs and helping to prepare
schemes which meet project criteria;
(b)  implementation of water and sanitation schemes which are accepted by
the CWSPU through: preparing detailed designs; assisting CBOs to
organize construction; providing technical oversight of works;
training CBO members in operation and maintenance (including revenue
collection); advising CBOs on operation and maintenance; and
collecting baseline data during various aspects of implementation to
monitor and evaluate the impact of the project; and
(c) providing a package of community health and hygiene education
activities.
4.3       Diagrams outlining the various stages of the project review processes,
and the project cycle at the community level, are iacluded as Annexes 7 and 8,
respectively. A brief description of the PO that are likely to participate in
the project is included in Annex 9.
B. Status of Preparation
4.4       A representative sample of 150 schemes (10 town and 40 village schemes
in each of the three project Districts) was reviewed under the UNDP-funded/World
Bank-executed effort in which District Development Plans for the each of the
three project Districts were prepared.   Given the innovative nature of the
project and the recent creation of the CWSPU, further preparatory work on the
project was considered desirable following the successful conclusion of the UNDP
study. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF No. P-731-0-CE) of US$700,000 was
granted to retain a consulting firm for the following scope of work:
(a) mobilization of the CWSPU; (b) training of its staff; (c) design and
installation of financial, monitoring and evaluation, and management information
systems; (d) preparation of manuals for CWSPU use; (e) development of contractual
documentation (for goods, works and services); (f) development of procedures for
the registration of CBOs; (g) carrying out P0 assessments and training; and
(h) pilot program implementation.
C. Implementation Plan and Schedule
4.5       Prolect Implementation Period.   The proposed project  is heavily
weighted towards institutional development and to testing approaches for service
delivery, and does not attempt to achieve full coverage of water and sanitation
in the three project Districts. Rather, it covers only a five-year time-slice
of the Priority Investment Plans.  The concept and strategy adopted for the



- 18 -
project is expected to prove successful, and funding has been provided for a
follow-up project to be prepared towards the end of the implementation period.
The follow-up project would aim to apply the lessons learned from the innovative
approach of the proposed project and provide the framework for a national policy
for  providing  rural water  supply  and  sanitation  services.    A  project
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 10.
4.6       Contracting with POs. The CWSPUs would contract with eligible POs for
project development and implementation and for community health and hygiene
activities.  To take advantage of the comparative strengths of different POs
without weakening their effectiveness, the exact terms of contracts would differ
among the various POs. For example, contracts may be made at the District level
with decentralized POs. whereas the National CWSPU would sign contracts with more
centralized POs. Again, some POs may not undertake all functionis (e.g., NWSDB
may decide to collaborate with the Ministry of Health to provide health and
hygiene education services in communities where it develops and implements
projects).  Also, more than one P0 may jointly offer services to enable all
functions to be fulfilled. With the possible exception of NWSDB, contracts with
POs would include payments for overheads which the POs would incur for
participating in the project.
4.7       PO Elisibilitv.   CWSPU would select potential POs based on the
criteria outlined below:
(a)  legal registration;
(b)  active for previous three years;
(c)  financially healthy;
(d)  successfully executed community-based projects;
(e)  experience in water supply and/or sanitation projects; and
(f)  managerial capacity to undertake work of the scope and size under
consideration.
Eligibility assessments of POs would also recommend specific strengthening
required by POs.   Assurances were obtained during negotiations  that all
eligibility assessments would be subject to IDA's review and approval [para 6.1
(c)].
4.8       Model Proiect Agreements.   Project Development Services Agreements
would be based upon an agreed program of work for about 6-18 months.   They
include targets for the numbers of communities to be contacted by the P0 for
purposes of mobilization. They also provide indicative figures regarding the
number of schemes which would be presented for consideration by the CWSPU during
that period. Costs would be estimated on the basis of the agreed work program,
and would be negotiated by the National CWSPU. These negotiations would also
provide the forum for specific strengthening of POs, as required, for project
implementation. A model agreement is available in the Project File.
4.9       Project Implementation Agreements would be drawn up among three
parties--a District CWSPU, the P0 and the CBO, for schemes which meet criteria
agreed with IDA. A model agreement is available in the Project File.
4.10      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above model
agreements would be used for implementation of the project (para 6.1 (d)l.



- 19 -
4.11      Scheme Criteria. Agreement were obtained during negotiation that: all
water and sanita.tion schemes would be selected by the CWSPUs in accordance with
criteria agreed with IDA (Annex 11); the schemes would be implemented in
conformity with design criteria agreed with IDA (Annex 12) (para 6.1 (e)]; and
the CWSPUs would make no major changes to the criteria except with the agreement
of IDA. In summary, the criteria would include:
(a)  technical  viability  (including  an  assessment  of  the  existing
situation; the degree to which scheme proposed will ameliorate that
situation; the extent of yield relative to standards; reliability of
the source; conformity to project design criteria; and accuracy of
costing);
(b) environmental sustainabilitv (including mitigation measures and design
standards);
(c) resource availability (including land, and right to use water
sources);
(d)  community sulport and imvlementation caRacitv (ability of a duly
registered CBO to mobilize at least 20Z of the direct cost of a scheme
in either cash or in-kind; ability of the community to organize its
contribution to the construction effort; ability of community to
administer a sanitation revolving fund; and adequacy of PO technical
and supervisory staff to implement and supervise the works);
(e) economic viability (determination whether water costs per beneficiary
household are below an agreed ceiling or a demonstration that benefits
exceed costs in cases where achieving project standards implies higher
per-household costs; and demonstrated willingness by CBO to pay 100%
of costs of service standards over project standard);
(f) sustainability (satisfactory arrangements for future operation and
maintenance including financing; and debt service in the case of
pumped schemes); and
(g) satisfactory health and sanitation arrangements (to ensure that health
benefits from project investments are maximized).
During implementation, modifications to the scheme and design criteria may be
proposed by CWSPUs on the basis of experience and results of monitoring and
evaluating performance. As indicated above, major modifications would not be
implemented, except with the agreement of IDA.
4.12      Prioritization of 3chemes.   Schemes would be approved on a first-
come/first-served basis.   Should, however, a lack of funds or supervisory
capacity make it infeasible to proceed immediately with all satisfactory projects
being presented, they would be prioritized on the basis of: (a) indices of need
in terms of reliability, quantity and quality of existing sources; (b) budget
cost per household (to allow the budget to handle more beneficiaries); and
(c) willingness to pay (i.e., communities prepared to contribute a larger
proportion of cost than the minimum required for that type of scheme, would be
given preference).



- 20 -
4.13      IDA Review of Contract Proposals.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the following would be subject to IDA's review and approval
before  commitments  are madet  (a)  the  first  Project  Development  Services
Agreement; (b) the first Project Implementation Agreement; and (c) schemes
costing more than the free limit (SLRs 2.0 million) [para 6.1 (f)].
Documentation to bo forwarded to IDA would include the development proposal,
scheme proposal, and the draft agreement to be signed.
4.14      Operation Action Plan.  The timetable for implementing the project's
various policy, technical assistance and physical components have been grouped
into an Operational Action Plan (OAP) in a form suitable for monitoring progress.
The OAP was agreed during negotiations, and is included with the minutes of
negotiations. Assurances were obtained that project implementation would be
carried out in accordance with the OAP satisfactory to IDA [para 6. 1 (g)].  The
OAP would be reviewed and updated annually in consultation with IDA.
4.15      Land Acqulsition.  Some land will be required for spring sources and
for permanent easements for installation of piped schemes. The acquisition of
the necessary land for rural water supply purposes has not been a problem in the
past. This was because GOSL either allocated the land if it were already "Crown
Land" (about 804 of the land area of Sri Lanka is designated as such), or the
individual own.ar of the land required for a scheme donated or sold the land to
the community. As a precaution, however. GOSL has designated the Provincial
Council Secretariats under the Land Acquisition Act with authority to:
(a) allocate Crown Land; and (b) attest that there were no outstanding conflicts
regarding water use, including conflicts with neighboring villages. A gift or
sale of land by private parties 'or water schemes would be effected through a
notarized executed deed.
4.16      Role of Women.  Women have the main responsibility for the collection
and management of domestic water use, family hygiene and maintenance of a clean
household. Because they play such a key role in these areas, their involvement
in the planning and operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation
schemes should be standard practice. Unfortunately, this is not the caee in Sri
Lanka as traditionally, women have not be invited to participate in decision
making generally, or for water and sanitation issues in particular.
4.17      Experience  with  women's  groups  in  other  developing  countries
initiating or managing their own systems shows that there is potential for
greater involvement of women in these areas. This is true especially if the
systems cater to both domestic and income-generating use.  When systems are
managed by a mixed group of men and women, it is often the women who are
responsible for fee collection, bookkeeping, and supervision of the water system.
Women have also been trained in pump maintenance and repair, and are quicker to
respond to problems with water schemes as they are the first to suffer from
interruptions in supply.
4.18      Strategies to increase women's involvement include:  (a) organizing
women into small groups to work collectively, and to ensure that each
participates; (b) visiting women individually at home and encouraging them to
join a group and overcome their initial hesitation and fears; (c) utilizing
village-based women's organizations for credit schemes, training, extension
services, and project monitoring; (d) carrying out community surveys during the



- 21 -
project planning phase that relate to women's involvement in water projects; and
(e) meeting the needs of women regarding childcare and health services which
would eliminate barriers to participation of women.
4.19      Time gained from permanent reduction in the task of water collection
would free women to pursue more productive activities. This could include better
child care, education endeavors or the ability to work outside the home to
augment the family income. Organizing women into groups could help to educate
them to the possibilities which their participation would provide.
4.20      Special attention would be given in the project to ensuring that
benefits to women are maximized. Specific steps which would be undertaken to
this end would include: (a) recruitment of women to the CWSPU; (b) reflection of
gender issues in base-line surveys and project proposals; (c) inclusion of women
in development issues in all relevant training activities to be provided to
politicians, community leaders, the CWSPUs, PO staff and CBO members; and
(d) special efforts to involve women in the community discussions for all aspects
relating to water supply and sanitation schemes.
D. Procurement
4.21      All procurement of goods and civil works would be carried out in
accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines, except as noted below. Project
cost breakdown by procurement method is presented in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1 s Procurement Method
(US$ million)
PROJECT ELEMENT                    ICB      LCB      Other      NBF a/    TOTAL
Cost
1.  Civil Works                             5.0        8.2W/                13.2
(3.2)     (5.3)                 (8.5)
2.  Goods                           0.3     3.4        2.8                   6.5
(0.3)   (2.3)      (1.8)                 (4.4)
3. Training and                                       10.7        0.7       11.4
Technical Assistance                              (10.2)                (10.2)
4. Revolving Fund                                      1.2                   1.2
and PPF                                            (1.2)                 (1.2)
TOTAL                               0.3     8.4       22.9        0.7       32.3
(0.3)   (5.5)    (18.5)                 (24.3)
Note: Figures in parenthesis ( ) are the amounts to be financed by IDA,
including contingencies. Other costs include small works performed by POs/CBOs,
small purchases by POs/CBOs, contract staff costs and IDA's consultant
selection procedures.
a/ Not Bank financed
/  Includes latrine construction by beneficiary households.



- 22 -
Civil Works
4.22      The total estimated cost of small and large civil works contracts for the
water supply and sanitation components would be about US$13.2 million, inclusive of
contingencies, taxes and duties. For piped schemes, for which NWSDB is expected to
be the P0, NWSDB would prepare the engineering designs and contract bidding documents.
Sample bidding documents, satisfactory to IDA, have been prepared for use during
implementation.    These schcnes  are relatively  small and would  require  simple
operations, e.g., supplying and laying PVC pipes, and are unlikely to prove attractive
to foreign bidders.  These works would be executed by local contractors following
local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to IDA. For this type and size
of contract, there are several qualified contractors in Sri Lanka, and
prequalification of contractors would not be necessary.
4.23      About 2,000 small civil works contracts would be required which include
provision for materials and community participation (e.g., wells, handpumps, small
gravity schemes etc.). These numerous small schemes would be widely scattered over
a large number of villages and small towns, and spread over the five-year
implementation period. Because of community participation by way of cash and/or in-
kind labor contributions, normal procurement procedures would be impractical to
follow. These civil works estimated to cost up to US$7,500 equivalent per contract
aad up to an aggregated amount of US$7.0 million equivalent would be procured under
normal community commercial practices acceptable to IDA.
4.24      The CWSPU has begun to develop design criteria, acceptable to IDA, to be
followed for the award of these small works contracts to ensure that: (a) the quality
of materials and workmanship is satisfactory and acceptable; (b) the prices of these
materials and any other inputs (including those provided by the CBOs) are reasonable
and realistic; and (c) the standards and specifications governing these schemes are
complied with fully. Due to the diversity and multiplicity of these schemes, the
CWSPU would institute a comprehensive system of monitoring and supervision to ensure
compliance with established standards.
Goods
4.25      The total estimated cost of goods to be procured for the water supply,
sanitation, hygiene education and program management components would be about US$6.5
million, inclusive of contingencies, duties and taxes.  Contracts over US$100,000
equivalent would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB),
including the procurement of vehicles, materials and equipment. Local suppliers and
manufacturers competing for the supply of goods under ICB during bid evaluation would
be granted a margin of preference of 15Z of the CIF bid price for locally manufactured
goods or the applicable custom duties and taxes--whichever is lower. Contracts for
items of small value costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or less, aggregating not
more than US$3.5 million equivalent, may be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Relatively minor items to cost the equivalent of US$7,500 or less
per contract, up to an aggregated amount equivalent to about US$2.0 million would be
procured according to normal community commercial practices acceptable to IDA. These
contracts would be required in the execution of about 2,000 water supply and
sanitation systems.



- 23 -
Training and Technical Assistanco
4.26       The project includes: (a) about US$7.4 million for training and technical
assistance to be contracted through professionals experienced in water supply,
sanitation and social communications to provide project support, management and
institution building and to prepare a follow-up project; and (b) about US$5.8 million
on the program development. hygienb education and project management components. The
consultants would be selected in accordance with The World Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants.
Contract Review
4.27       All individual contracts for civil works and goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more (complete with engineering and specification details)
would be subject to IDA's prior review and approval. Agreement was obtained during
negotiations that the above limit would be adhered to (para 6.1 (h)l. This will allow
prior review for approximately 102 of the procurement under the project.
S. Disbursements
4.28       On  the  basis  of  the  proposed  implementation  schedule  (Annex  10),
disbursements would continue for six years.   The proceeds of the credit would be
disbursed, net of taxes and duties, as outlined in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2t Disbursement Arrangements
Category                        Amount        2 of Expenditures
(SDRs million)   to be Financed
(1) Badulla District
(a) Civil Works               2.10        65Z of expenditures
(b) Goods                     1.05        1002 of foreign expenditures;
1002 of ex-factory cost of
local expenditures; 652 of other
local expenditures
(2) Matara District
(a) Civil Works               1.40        652 of expenditures
(b) Goods                     0.70        1002 of foreign expenditures;
1002 of ex-factory cost of
local expenditures; 651 of other
local expenditures
(3) Ratnapura District
(a) Civil Works               2.10        652 of expenditures
(b) Goods                     1.05        1001 of foreign expenditures;
1002 of ex-factory cost of
local expenditures; 651 of other
local expenditures
(4) Program Unit operating
cost                          1.10         1002 of expenditures
(5) Consultants services
and training                  5.55        1002 of expenditures
(6) Refunding of Project
Preparation Facility          0.50         1002 of expenditures
(7) Unallocated                   1.35
TOTAL                            16.90



- 24 -
4.29      Disbursements would be fully documented except those for: (a) civil
works contracts under US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for imported and
locally procured goods under US$100,000 equivalent each; (c) local training
costs; and (d) for incremental operating costs. Such disbursements would be made
against Statements of Expenditures, the documentation for which would not be
submitted to IDA but retained by the CWSPU in Colombo, and made available during
the course of project supervision.  A schedule of disbursements is shown in
Annex 13.
4.30      Special Account.  To expedite disbursements, a Special Account with
an authorized allocation of US$1.2 million (representing about four months of
IDA-financed expenditures) would be established in the Central Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The Special Account would be used to finance all
eligible expenditures, and would be replenished from time to time on receipt and
approval of withdrawal applications, supported by the required documentation.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.31      Accounts. With funds provided under the PPF, a project accounting and
record keeping system is under development to supplement the existing statutory
Government accounting system and practices which the CWSPUs would be required to
use. The project accounting system would record:
(a) funds advanced periodically to the various POs for program development
expenditures; CBOs to set up sanitation revolving funds; and funds for
school latrines;
(b) CBO contributions to the capital costs of approved schemes; and
(c) expenditures on identified schemes, including agency overhead payments
(para 4.32).
Each PO and CBO would maintain separate project accounts and records which would
directly support the CWSPU project accounting  system.   Entries would be
classified according to categories such as civil works, materials, equipment,
technical  assistance,  taxes  and  duties,  and  land,  if  applicable.    All
documentation generated at the District level would be copied to the National
CWSPU on a regular basis to enable it to prepare withdrawal applications for
submission to IDA, and to facilitate the centralized auditing of project
expenditures. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that GOSL would cause
the CWSPU, POs and CBOs to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the project in accordance
with sound accounting practices [para 6.1 (i)].
4.32      As program development and scheme implementation are to be entrusted
to POs without competitive bidding, they will need to be reimbursed for the
overhead costs. During project preparation, a detailed analysis was made of
seven potential POs. The analysis showed a high degree of similarity between all
agencies with high overheads in the first year, dropping to a steady rate in year
five. For the purposes of the project, the overhead costs have been divided into
two parts: the long-term "base" overhead, averaging 33%, and four decreasing
"logistical strengthening" overhead rates to be applied over the first four years



- 25 -
of an PO's participation in the project.  The latter rates recognize that a
number of POs will not be functioning with maximum efficiency at the start of the
project until they gain experience.  The resulting aggregate annual overhead
rates were calculated to be 77Z, 601. 502 and 401. with subsequent years at 33%.
As part of the OAP, the CWSPU will be required annually to recalculate the
overhead element It will have to pay to POs in the following year.
4.33      Audit.  The records and accounts of all potential POs are required to
be audited annually under the legislation establishing such entities. Therefore,
to safe3uard IDA's interests, it is considered that only annual audits of the
project accounts, records and financial statements of the CWSPU would be
required. This is because: (a) advances and replenishment to POs by the CWSPU
will be properly accounted for and documented; (b) direct cash and in-kind
contributions to the capital cost and implementation by communities provide them
with a vested interest to ensure proper utilization of funds; and (c) the works
will be supervised by the offices of the District offices of the CWSPU, POs and
CBOs. In addition, IDA presently receives copies of the annual audit reports of
NWSDB as part of the audit requirements of Credit 1700-CE.
4.34      Agreement was obtained during negotiations that CWSPU's accounts and
financial statements, including Statements of Expenditure and the Special
Account, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA . Agreement
was also obtained during negotiations that a copy of the audit report and a
certified copy of the financial statements would be submitted to IDA no later
than six months after the close of each fiscal year (para 6.1(j)J.
G. Monitoring. Evaluation. Sunervision
4.35      Monitoring and evaluation would have an important role to play in
ensuring efficient project implementation, in ensuring that major objectives are
achieved, and in providing a basis for replicating project experience in
subsequent operations. To that end, agreement was obtained at negotiations that
GOSL and IDA would jointly conduct formal annual reviews of GOSL/CWSPU's project
policies, criteria and implementation progress (para 6.1 (k)]. Indicators for
monitoring and evaluation would be dasigned to: (a) track implementation; (b)
identify bottlenecks and recommend changes; and (c) provide GOSL and IDA with
adequate information on project progress. Monitoring indicators would focus on
the rate of implementation, the extent to which benefits are being realized, an
assessment of the cost-effectiveness of interventions, and a review of the
suitability of project policies (including selection criteria).
4.36      Monitoring information would be provided from: (a) scheme proposals;
(b) data on schemes during the course of implementation and initial operation of
facilities; (c) activity reports of POs and CBOs; (d) observation of community
response and participation; (e) observation by the CWSPU staff and the Technical
Support Cell of PO performance, including the use and function of facilities; and
(f) explicit surveys of benefits and impacts.  Monitoring indicators for the
project have been developed and are shown in Annex 14.
4.37      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the CWSPU would
prepare quarterly progress reports and copies would be submitted to IDA within
two months of the end of each quarter. The reports would cover the progress of



- 26 -
the project,  including physical progress,  costs,  disbursements,  technical
assistance, training and other pertinent information. The reports would also
identify any constraints along with proposed remedies [para 6.1 (1)).
4.38      The project is expected to require about 16 staff weeks per year of
supervision, or about 80 staff weeks over the five-year implementation period.
This figure reflects that this is the first IDA-financed project in rural water
supply and rural sanitation in Sri Lanka; that the project would finance
dispersed investments, with consequent logistical challenges; and that a number
of POs would be dealing with a new approach of community involvement in its own
development. The Supervision Plan is presented in Annex 15 .
H. Cost Recovery and Calital Contributions
4.39      In the interests of achieving full water supply and sanitation
coverage by the year 2000, and of the desirability of giving a sense of community
ownership to increase sustainability of completed schemes, GOSL has announced a
new policy with respect to cost recovery applicable to rural schemes. It also
proposes to adopt the community-based approach to implementation and operation
and maintenance. Thus, communities, having been fully involved in the selection
of the service to be provided, would agree that:
(a) for schemes developed to the project basic design standards, there
would be a contribution by beneficiaries of a minimum of 20% of
capital investment (direct cost) of each water supply scheme (with the
exception of tubewells where the contribution is to be at least 10%
of direct cost), and full recovery of all operation and maintenance
costs from beneficiaries;
(b)  for cases in which beneficiaries request higher service standards
(e.g., for yard taps in place of standposts. or higher density of
wells or standposts) than the project basic design standards,
beneficiaries would contribute at least the full incremental cost in
addition to the minimum 201 of direct costs; and
(c)  higher than the minimum 201 contribution to capital costs for standard
design schemes would be encouraged by giving such schemes priority.
4.40      The capital contribution would consist of cash and in-kind payments
(e.g., labor, land, materials) where the cash element could be reduced on a
sliding scale by in-kind contributions. The initial cash payment would be 9%,
based on survey results. On the other hand, as tubewells offer only limited
opportunities for in-kind contributions, the minimum contribution would be 10%,
expected to be in cash.   With the exception of piped schemes and possibly
tubewells, the guiding principle presumes there would be no dependence on
recovery of capital charges after scheme completion due to the large number of
small schemes. For sanitation facilities, the beneficiaries would be able to
finance part of the cost by application to the revolving fund administered by
CBOs.
4.41      Small town schemes, which most likely would be piped schemes, may be
implemented by either NWSDB or Pradeshiya Sabhas.   Because of the technical



- 27 -
complexity of such schemes, it may also be operated by them as well rather than
by the community. NWSDB has the proven capability to operate such schemes, while
the Pradeshiya Sabhas are newly created institutions which lack, in most cases,
the managerial, technical and financial skills to operate and maintain piped
water supply schemes.   GOSL proposes to address these deficiencies through
technical assistance and training under the on-going IDA-financed Municipal
Management Project (Cr. 1697-CE). Actual and projected financial statements for
NWSDB and Pradeshiya Sabhas are given in Annex 16.
4.42      The provision of Government grants to cover a portion of the capital
costs for water schemes can be justified given that: (a) a supply of potable
water is essential to public health; (b) the capital costs are sometimes
relatively high given the small size of villages served; (c) there is little or
no industry in the rural areas for cross-subsidizing; and (d) poverty is
widespread in rural areas. There would be no grant accruing to the population
for sanitation.  Households would be expected to finance 100% of the cost of
installing a latrine, or upgrading an existing one. Tney may, however, borrow
up to 50% of the cost from their CBO, which may operate a revolving fund for this
purpose.
4.43      Agreement was reached during negotiations that GOSL would cause: (a)
CBOs to contribute not less than 20% of the direct capital costs of water
schemes, with the exception of tubewells where the minimal contribution would be
10%; levy tariffs and charges sufficient to cover normal operation and
maintenance costs and debt service where applicable; and assume responsibility
for operation and maintenance on completion of schemes;  and (b) NWSDB and
Pradeshiya Sabhas to set charges on schemes (piped schemes only) to be operated
by them, sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs and the larger of
depreciation or debt service. As a consequence, the national water tariff would
not necessarily apply to piped schemes in the project area (para 6.1 (m)].
V. ECONOMIC ARtLYSIS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A. Economic Analysis
5.1        Project Justification.   The proposed project is justified on the
basis of the benefits accruing to low-income population in the form of improved
water supply and sanitation services; enhancing women's productivity and well
being by freeing them from the chore of fetchir3 water; and improved overall
health conditions resulting from health education. In addition, the adoption of
the community-based approach to rural water supply and sanitation, giving
communities more responsibility for the services provided, would enhance
sustainability. Also, the pilot nature of the project should result in a learning
experience that will help to replicate in other communities a scheme based on
community ownership and management, and to mobilize resources for the provision
of services to the lowest income group.
5.2       The direct benefits of the project are expected to reach about 650,000
people through the Water Program and Sanitation components. Indirectly, however,
the imFact of the project will go substantially beyond the quantifiable
beneficiaries.    No  estimate  has  been  attempted  of  the health benefits.



- 28 -
Collection of adequate data on health status is expensive and quantification of
the likely impacts of improvements on health status is subject to substantial
error, as is the valuation of changesY Time saving benefits have, however,
been quantified.
5.3       Cost Benefit Analysis.  Benefits and costs of each type of water
scheme have been forecast over a 20 year horizon in mid-1991 border prices.
Border prices were calculated using the Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9 for
domestic items. Switching values have been calculated using the estimated 102
opportunity cost of capital for Sri Lanka. Further details of the estimates are
provided in Annex 17.
5.4       Time used in water collection and water consumption were analyzed from
household surveys carried out during project preparation.   Time savings and
differences in consumption were estimated between households with satisfactory
supplies (i.e., a clean source within 250 meters of the household) for each type
of supply (protected well, tubewell, etc.), compared with households without
access to satisfactory supplies. Consumption per capita was around 22 liters per
capita per day (lcd) for households with unsatisfactory supplies, and around 25-
26  lcd  for  households  with  satisfactory  supplies.    The  time  cost  of
'unsatisfactory" water was 0.87 to 0.94 minutes/liter, as compared with 0.54 to
0.61 minutes/liter for the "satisfactory" supplies. The valuation of water was
based on an estimate (from household interviews) that 43% of time saved would be
used for remunerated work (valued at the rural female wage of SLRs 5 per hour),
50% would be used for additional housework (valued at 50% of the rural wage), and
25% would be for leisure, sleeping etc., (valued as in transport studies, at 25%
of the rural wage). The benefit figure comprised the value of time saved in
consuming the initial quantity of water, plus the consumers' surplus from
additional consumption.    Benefits on this basis ranged from SLRs 660 per
household per year, to SLRs 960 per household per year.   The base estimate
assumes a benefit of SLRs 900 per household per year. This benefit figure is
significant, amounting to about 7.5Z of average household income.
5.5       Direct costs for each type of water scheme were estimated on the basis
of bills of quantities, plus SLRs 290 per household of development cost, plus
intermediary overheads.   For purposes of the analysis,  the assumption was
retained that there would be 15 households per protected well, 28 per shallow
5/   Research elsewhere in the Region has demonstrated substantial reductions
in diarrhea and water borne diseases from complementary packages of health
education and improved water and sanitation programs. See K.M.A. Aziz, et
al., Water Supply. Sanitation and fygiene Education. Report of a Health
ImDact Study in Mirzapur. Banaladesh, UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation
Program, 1990.
i./ The household survey showed that beneficiaries of gravity schemes consumed
less water than persons without satisfactory supplies. This anomaly may
arise from excluding consumption from unclean nearer sources in the "with
scheme" cases. The assumption retained for the cost-benefit analysis in
this report is that consumption for gravity schemes remains the same in the
"with project" as in the "without project" case.



- 29 -
tubewell, 37 per deep tubewell, and an average of 65 per gravity scheme based on
a mix of five different scheme sizes. The estimate of pumped schemes costs was
based on a per household figure (derived from a review of data on NWSDB schemes,
plus one scheme for which preliminary designs were prepared during preparation).
On a per houeshold basis, costs ranged from SLRs 2,333 for protected wells to
SLRs 10,845 for pumped schemes (market prices). Operation and maintenance costs,
together with periodic maintenance (averaged to an annual figure) were also
projected (ranging from SLRs 246 per household per year for gravity schemes to
SLRs 778 for pumped schemes).   The highest recurrent costs were for pumped
schemes (about two thirds of investment cost in present value terms), and for
gravity schemes (about 402), and the lowest for well schemes (all below 15%).
5.6       Economic Rate of Return.  Table 6.1 below shows the ERRs and the
percentage change in base case benefits or costs which would result in a 10% ERR
for each case. For the water schemes alone, the average ERR is 21.2%. Table 6.1
also shows ERRs for the different types of water schemes. The high ERRs on wells
compared with the other technologies relate to the lower per household costs of
wells. The advantage of wells would, of course, be vitiated if a higher ratio
of wells to households were implemented than appears reasonablq  from the
preparation work. When all project costs are included (i.e., CWSPU, nygiene and
sanitation components, research costs, etc.), the ERR falls to 7.3%. Given the
partial measure of benefits, and the robustness of the ERR with respect to
substantial differences in benefits and costs, it may be concluded that the
project would yield larger economic benefits than costs. This is, of course,
subject to rigorous adherence in practice to the proposed scheme design and
selection criteria.   Realization of net benefits will also require special
efforts to assess benefits as well as costs in the case of all pumped schemes,
and many gravity schemes in scheme selection and design.



- 30 -
Table 5.1: Suinarv of KRRs. SwitchinA Values and Sensitivity Tests
Case                             ERR          Switchins Values (Z Change)
Invest.    O&M &    Benefits
Cost       Repair
Base Case    Water Schemes    21.2Z            82Z         2062      -34%
Base Case -- All Costs           7.3Z         -18Z        -100Z       172
Protected Wells               121.72          9182        3950%      -80%
Handpump Wells                 42.5%          2562        22382      -64Z
Handpump Tubewells             30.!2          1552        10882      -53Z
Gravity Schemes                 10.82           52          142       -3%
Pumped Supplies                 neg.          -84Z        -1422      1102
Sensitivity Tests - Water Schemes
Investment Costs up 102         19.02
Investment Costs up 202         17.22
Investment Costs down 102      23.72
Recurrent Costs up 202         20.22
Benefits up 102                23.92
Benefits up 202                26.62
Benefits down 202               15.52
All Costs up 202 &
Benefits down 202              11.4X
Sensitivity Tests - All Costs
Other Investment Cost up 102   6.72
Other Invest. Cost down 502   11.92
All Costs up 20Z &
Benefits down 202                1.5Z
5.7       Willingness to Pay and Affordability.   Surveys conducted during
project preparation indicated that 832 of households wanted an improved water
supply. In order of desired service, house connections came first, followed by
standposts and protected wells.   The number of households desiring improved
service reached 1002 when present distance to source was over 100 meters. Over
602 of households surveyed also stated their willingness to contribute up to SLRs
100 towards the capital costs, with some willing to pay up to SLRs 800. Over 60%
also stated their willingness to pay up to SLRs 10.00 per month towards operation
and maintenance costs (i.e. 0.52 of month average household income of SLRs.2063).
This rose to 80Z if the payment were reduced to SLRs 5.00 per month. This
compares favorably to the 6X only of rural households that are presently paying
for water (4.42 for house connections; 1.22 for water from vendors; and 0.2%
other).
5.8       Willingness to pay may be higher among some members of the community
than others, and willingness to pay for certain service levels may also be
higher. For this reason, households desiring a higher level of service would be



- 31 -
able to obtain this, provided they pay the full additional cost is recovered from
the household.  Communities which are willing to make a larger contribution in
order to receive a higher level of service would also be allowed to do so.
5.9       It became cle,ar from the surveys  that villages  and households,
generally, were not willing to assume any long-term indebtedness.   This was
partly because of possible wide variations in the repayment amount per month, and
also to lumpy cash flows due to seasonality of incomes.  However, with GOSL's
stated policies on capital and operation and maintenance cost recovery, the
proposed project would be affordable to the beneficiary households.
5.10      Prolect Risks.  The main risks are that adequate local institutional
capacity might not develop fast enough to utilize the funds during the agreed
implementation period, and the CWSPU may not be provided with the necessary
autonomy to allocate funds on the basis of the agreed criteria. As the project
proposes to develop a strategy to involve the communities in the planning, cost
sharing, implementation, and operation and maintenance of schemes, technical
assistance and training, as needed, would be provided to assist the PO to
mobilize the communities. Physical investments would be undertaken only after
communities have been prepared, and commitments made, with regard to the above
principles. Local community participation in planning, design and construction
would be encouraged to generate interest in the project, to create employment
opportunities, and to provide an in-kind contribution to the capital cash. One
key activity would be the creation of user committees that are truly gender-
representative.  CWSPU staff would be recruited for their qualifications and
experience in the subsector, and would be required to adhere to the agreed
criteria for the selection of POs and schemes.
5.11      The sustainability of investments in rural water supply would be at
risk if there were inadequate institutional and funding arrangements for
operation and maintenance. This risk would be minimized through measures to
upgrade local skill levels through training; strengthen administrative
arrangements by which communities assume responsibility for operation and
maintenance; promote private sector participation in operation and maintenance;
and maximize revenues through design improvements which reduce operation and
maintenance costs.
B. Environmental Assese.  nt
5.12      The project would have a positive impact on the environment.   The
provision of safe and reliable water supply and improved environmental sanitation
facilities and related health education are expected to have a positive
environmental impact on the lives of people in the projec. area. The project
would have a beneficial impact by promoting community awareness of the importance
of a clean environment. It would promote the controlled disposal of human waste,
thereby reducing bacterial contamination of the environment.
5.13      There are three potential areas of negative environmental impact
associated with the project: depletion of water sources; pollution problems
arising from incressed water use and related sullage disposal; and groundwater
pollution by latrines (Annex 18). The majority of the tubewells to be used in
the project are shallow and will require only handpumps which have insigaificant



- 32 -
effects in the depletion of ground water resources.  The use of springs for
gravity schemes could interfere with existing uses of water, but the project
promote community dialogue which will allow resolve this conflict.   Design
criteria agreed under this project and good maintenance will help ensure
environmentally sound practices. Furthermore, mitigation measures to address
possible negative impacts of individual schemes will be incorporated in desi8ns
and reviewed by the CWSPU during the approval process to ensure that they meet
agreed criteria.   Notwithstanding these potentially adverse  environmental
problems, the net environmental impact of the project is considered to be
positive, due in part, to the heavy emphasis the project would give to hygiene
education.
VI. ACGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOIMIEDATION
Agreements
6.1       During nezotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government of
Sri Lanka on the following:
(a)  the policies, criteria and procedures adopted for the proposed project
would also apply to any other schemes undertaken by GOSL and/or other
donors in the three project Districts (para 2.10);
(b)  the composition of the National and District CWSPU at the National and
District levels would be reviewed from time to time during
implementation to determine staffing needs (para 3.3);
(c)  to cause CWSPU to establish that all eligibility assessments of POs
would be subject to IDA's review and approval (para 4.7);
(d)  to cause CWSPU to use the model contract documents for development
services and implementation agreements, as agreed with IDA (para
4.10);
(e)  to cause CWSPU to select and implement the schemes in accordance with
scheme selection and design criteria, agreed with IDA, and that no
major changes would be made to them, except with the agreement of IDA
(para 4.11);
(f)  the first Project Development Services and Implementation Agreements
with each PO, and schemes over the free limit of SLRs 2.0 million,
would be subject to IDA's review and approval (para 4.13);
(g)  to cause CWSPU to implement the project  in accordance with an
Operational Action Plan satisfactory to IDA (para 4.14);
(h)  all civil works and goods contracts over US$100,000 would be subject
to IDA's prior review and approval (para 4.27);



- 33 -
(i) to cause the CWSPU, Partner organizations and CBOs to maintain records
and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices  (para
4.31);
(j) the CWSPU's accounts and financial statements, including Statements
of Expenditure and the Special Account, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that a copy of the audit
for each fiscal year would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year (para 4.34);
(k) formal annual reviews shall be conducted jointly with IDA (para 4.35);
(1) quarterly project progress reports would be prepared, and copies
aubmitted to IDA within two months of the end of each quarter (para
4.37); and
(m)  to cause: (a) CBOs to contribute at least 20% of the direct capital
costs of each water supply scheme,   except that for tubewells the
contribution is to be at least 10% of the direct capital cost; to levy
charges to beneficiaries to cover operation and maintenance costs as
well as applicable debt service; and to assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance; and (b) NWSDB and Pradeshiya Sabhas to set
tariffs and charges for water supply to cover operation and
maintenance costs and the greater of depreciation or debt service on
the piped schemes operated by them (para 4.43);
6.2       Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the National CWSPU office in Colombo shall be fully staffed and
equipped (para 3.1); and
(b) GOSL/CWSPU would sign a contract with a consulting firm to function
in the Technical Support Cell (para 3.5).
6.3       As a condition of disbursement for each District. each CWSPU office
shall be fully staffed and equipped (para 3.3).
Recommendation
6.4       On the basis of the above agreements and assurances, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 16.9 million (US$24.3
million equivalent) to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on
standard terms with 40 years maturity.



- 34 -
Page I of 9
SRI  a
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATIOgI PROJCT
District Develoument Plans
Introduction
1.        With the objective of improving the health, well-being and prosperity of
rural communities through the provision of improved sustainable water supply and
sanitation facilities, health education, community participation and human resource
development, GOSL articulated the following strategy for further development of the
rural sector. Each District should provide a sound basis for ensuring that development
of the water and sanitation services in its area proceeds in line with other sector
developments. They should avoid overlapping of projects, duplication of effort, and
ensure that sector development would be based on priorities and on an equitable basis
throughout the District. The District Development Plant (DDPs) should incorporate the
available technical support of the relevant agencies. They sihould identify safe water,
easily accessible, in quantities adequate for drinking, food preparation, personal
hygiene, at a cost in keeping with the economic level of the communities and through
facilities which could be easily operated and maintained at the local level. The
sanitation component, combined with hygiene education, would complete the effort to
protect the health of the people from the effects of adverse environmental conditions.
The facilities to be installed should be appropriate to the local conditions and
acceptable to the users. The DDPs should take the form of strategic investment plans
vith 10 year horizons, as well as define the first five year investment plans, with
sub-projects serving individual villages, rural towns, and dispersed households. The
plans, referred to as Priority Investment Programs, should be prioritized and staged
for Implementation according to projected financial potential. In addition, the DDPs
should identify all necessary support in the areas of community awareness and
participation, health education, training, technical assistance and operatTon and
maintenance support.
Executive Summarv of District Develogment Plans for the
Three Beneficiary Districts
2.        The DDPo addressed the small towns, rural villages and dispersed h uaeholds
in the Districts of Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura. They covered the following topics:
(a) demography, (b) economy, (c) health, (d) water resources, (e) sector status, (f)
institutional framework and principal issues, (g) Environmental Aspect, (h) costs,
(i) economic justification, and (j) Priority Investment Program. Particular attention
was given to the poorest of the communities most in need of improved services. The
approach taken waa in line with GOSL'a policies on self-help and self-reliance.
Maximum effort was made to ensure that the schemes would be self-financing, at least
in terms of recurrent costs. Complete DDPs of the three beneficiary districts are
available in Project File.
A. DemoaraDhv
3.        Population and Growth. The total population of the three Districts in 1991
was estimated to be 2,458,000, and growing at annual rates of 1.07S, 1.04S and 1.10l
in Badulla, Matara and Ratnaptra, respectively. This population is predominantly rural
as can be seen from Table 1.



-35-                              ANNEX1
Page 2 of 9
Badullaj%       VAt;ara     Ratnaoura
---------------- S ------------------
Rural                       64               82              73
Estate                      24                4              14
Urban                       L2               14              13
Total                       100             100             100
There are 134 state-owned estates in the Districts, and a number of smaller privately
owned estates. The total population living on estates according to the 1981 census vas
299,580.  The 1991 estate population is estimated to be 328,000.  The total urban
population has been calculated to include small towns even though these are usually
considered part of the rural population. This is because they have a high population
density, a concentration of coimercial activity and usually have less self reliant
social attitudes than those encountered among typical village communities.
B. The Economy
4.        General Kcgnomv.  In general, Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura exhibit the
characteristics of rural areas, with heavy reliance on agriculture. Tea estates are
an important part of the economy of each of the Districts, and there are large areas
of paddy under cultivation (largely for local consumption), coconut and spices. There
are few industries.
C. heslh
5.        Health Indicators.   The vital health statistics for the three project
Districts and their corresponding national figures are presented in Table 2.
Table 2
(1989, per 1,000 population)
il       CDR Ig             k E     an      ILUN
Badulla            25.6       6.3      0.4     33.5     21.7    23.1
Matara             22.7       6.2      0.5     22.7      14.7    19.9
Ratnapura          24.9       5.5      0.8     33.8      22.8    24.1
Sri Lanka          21.3       6.2      0.5     24.2      16.2    22.3
Note:     CBR-Crude Birth Ratel CDR-Crude Death Rate; MMR-Maternal Mortality Rate;
IMR-Infant Mortality Rate; NNMR-Neo-natal Mortality Rate; SLBW- Percentage
of Low Birth Weight Infants.
Among the three Districts,  atara has the best health Indices which approximate or are
better than the national averages. In contrast, the health indicators for Badulla and
Ratnapura show a poor standard of health compared to Sri Lanka a a whole, most notably
the Infant mortality rate, which is approximately 40S higher than the national average.
This could be attributed to the le satisfactory health and sanitary conditions in the
plantation sector, as the proportion of that population is higher in Badulla and
Ratnapura compared to Matara.
6.        There are 18 notifiable diseases in Sri Lanka, of which four can be
identified as water and sanitation related, namely, dysentery, typhoid fever (enteric
fever), food poisoning and viral hepatitis. The major disadvantage of using data from



- 36 -
Page 3 of 9
notifiable eiseaso reports is the poor notification rate from medical institutions.
According to the Epidemiology Unit, only 50-602 of cases of notifiable diseases  are
actually reported. Water and sanitation-related disease cases and mortality for the
three Districts are as followss Badulla -9,603 cases, 67 deathsg  Matara - 6,301 and
74 deaths; and Ratnapura - 16,080 and 68 deaths. With regard to the prevalence of
intestinal infections (potentially "water borne" diseases) which is an indication of
the general hygiene status and quality of water supply, Ratnapura appears to be the
worst off, vith Badulla and Matara somewhat better. For helminthiasis, which is a
reflection of sanitation status, Hatara has the lowest incidence (lower than the
national average) whereas Badulla and Ratnapura have a higher incidence.
D.  Water Resources
7.        The topographical, climatological, geomorphological and hydrogeological
features of the project area were analyzed to assess the relative potential for
different water source types. This was supplemented by data from field surveys which
confirmed the general accuracy of the assessments made.   The physiographical,
geological and hydrometeorlogical characteristics of each zone were analyzed in detail.
Within each zone, areas of good potential for gravity, shallow groundwater, deep
groundwater and pumped surface water sources were delineated according to the analysis
made.  This was then translated Into an estimate of the proportion of different water
source types to be used for planning purposes.
8.        Bacteriolocaial Ouality.  The bacteriological tests carried out during the
study showed that protected springs were the least contaminated with fecal coliform
(1002 below 10 B.coli/lOOml). Protected springs are natural springs which have been
capped. Water was sampled from these before it entered the distribution system, if one
existed. Taps (gravity and pumped systems) gave the next best bacteriological quality
(1001 below 25 E.coli/100ml). This indicated that whereas water at a protected spring
may have been of high quality, there was contamination taking place In the distribution
networks. Both protected and unprotected wells showed high levels of contain-ation by
E.coli. During preparation of the DDPs, it was found that there were seasonal
variations in the level of pollution, especially in water drawn from traditional
sources, including protected wells.  Th  geometric mean of fecal coliform peaked In
December during the mosoon rain. The proportion of positives peaked earlier, at the
beginning of the rains In September. Pollution which peaks during the early rain Is
usually attributed to run-off and is most likely to affect unprotected wells.
E. Sector Studies
9.        Source Aallaibility and Coverae.  Table 3 below show, the availability of
each of these types of water source as a percentage of households. The totals add to
more that 1001 as many households have access to more than one supply.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
Table 3
Badulla       Matara       Ratnagura
Protected wells            7             47            30
Unprotected wells         12             57            49
Spring                    70              5            16
Underground Spring         2              1             0
Stream                    27             13            37
River                      0             10             5
Gravity System            14              4            Il
Roof Catchment              1             0             6
Pumped system              1             20             9
Other                      1              3             7
Acceptable coverage has been defined as a function of both vater source type and the
distance to the source.
10.       Coverage overall is 31S for the high service level (lses than 150 mte of the
household) and 46Z for the low service level. Of the three Districts, Badulla has the
lowest level of coverage. Two thirds of households do not have access to even the low
service level sources. In Matara, the District with tho highest coverage, over 40S of
households do not have access to low service level sources. Of the covered population,
181 are being served by pumped supplies, 131 by protected wells and 1 by gravity
schemes. Only a small percentage are covered by wells with handpumps.
IL.       On average, each household spends 1.7 hours per day in the wet season on
water collection, rising to 2.2 hours during the dry season. Water consumption is 25
lcpd in the wet season and 27 lcpd in the dry. It was noted that there was little
variation on consumption from one season to another in each District. Female water
collectors were considerably more prevalent than male water collectors. On average,
there were two male and thirteen female collectors for every 10 houses.
12.       Construction of Water Supply Schemes  About a third of the existing water
sources in the three Districts had been built by private buildere, that is, the
household themselves had arranged construction, perhaps hiring a mason or other skilled
worker. The funding institutions also reflect this breakdown; a third of systems were
funded by private households, another third by government agencies, and the remainder
were funded by the village.
13.       Operation and Maintenance In keeping with the proportion of privately built
and owned systems, 341 of systems were also privately maintained. The operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs for each type of technology on a monthly basis per household
are shown in Table 4 below. These costs were calculated using the data collected on
existing schemes.



- 38 -
Page 5 of 9
Table 4
(O&M/month)
Scheme Tvoe                            SLRs/Householj
Gravity                                     10.00
Handpump                                     3 00
Tube vell                                    9.00
Protected vell                               1.75
Pumped, piped                               50.00
14.       Sanitation Coverage.  The number of households vith latrines is high in the
three Districts, amounting to 81S overall. A small number (1S) of houses had two
latrines. The vast majority of latrines is owned by the household itself, although a
small percentage (3Z) is shared. Almost 607 of latrines are under six years old, but
a substantial number (181) are over 12 years old.
15.       Although the number of households vith latrines is high, many latrines are
in a poor state of repair. An estimated 47Z of latrines are in poor condition, 21S In
fair condition, and only 321 In good condition. The public latrines in particular
tended to be in poor condition (71S of public latrines were in a poor state of repair).
The cleanliness of public latrines vas fair, however. While the majority of schools
have latrines, ovor 251 of the schools in Ratnapura do not.
F. Institutional Pramework and Prlncinal Issues
16.       Institutional Roles. There is a wide variety of institutions working In the
area, either as direct Implementing Institutions or -as supporting institutions. These
include: (a) government institutions--NWSDB, MNE, Pradeshlya Sabha*, Divisional
Government Agents (DGAs), public estate plantation boards; (b) NMOO--both indigenous
and International; and (c) community-based organizatione (COs). The Pradeshlya Sabbso
have yet to be fully established as they have only recently been elected. DG&s
correspond approximately to the Pradeshiya Sabhas. At aome point in the future, DGA
Divisions may be merged with the Pradeshlya Sabhas.
17.       Each of the project Districts has an Integrated Rural Development Project
(IRDP) which acts as an Intermediary for channelling funds to water and sanitation
projects  as part of overall rural development.   Thus,  they are not strictly
implementing agencies, but have ventured into the rural communities with change agents
(mobilizer.) in the absence of other agencies to do this. They are funded to a 1Arge
degree by external donor agencies, with funds being channelled through the Ministry of
Policy Planning and Implementation. They are the main agencies with an overall rural
development strategy in the Districts, combined with the funds to carry this out.
18.       Institutional Coordination.   There is little formal coordination of the
institutions working in the sector. Each of the major government Implementing agencies
falls under a different ministrys NWSDB - Minidstry of Housing and Construction;
Plantations - Ministry of Plantations and Plantation Industriesl IRDPs - Ministry of
Policy and Planning Implementation. There is no coordination of 100., as most of them,



- 39 -
aEX I
Page 6 of 9
except one or two, are so small as to mace coordination unnecessary. NGO programs are
also largely dictated by the funding and priorities of the donor.
19.       Strenaths and Weaknesses of the Institutional Framework. The recent policy
statements by the NWSDD hav. restricted its effective role in the rural sector to
overall policy, monitoring, technical guidelines and standarde, and direct project
implementation, primarily only under contract to other agencies. This does not put it
in an effective position to provide the driving force required to mobilize sufficient
capacity for sustainable project implementation. The MOR'o official role is pediaps
better suited to this approach, and it has successfully cooperated on various water and
sanitation projects with other agencies.
20.       NGOs exist in all three Districts and have great interest in implementing
water supply and sanitation schemes. This is the driving force behind NGOs, and as
such, their implementation methods tend to be different. NGOe also do not have the
capacity to take on responsibility for on-going O&E, and, therefore, promote projects
which are self-sustaining. NGOs are usually limited, however, by lack of funds, lack
of trained personnel (especially technical personnel), lack of logistical support
(offices, vehileoo, equipment, etc.) and lack of management expertise. The EGOs, in
particular the small ones, need to work within a structured program in order to avoid
the rather ad hoc nature of their past projects.
21.       CBOs are founi in nearly all villages, and are the essential last link in
the chain that stretches from the external donor agencies to individual project
beneficiaries. As they mostly have little capacity to generate their own funds, they
rely to a great extent on agencies from outside the community to achieve their
objectives, resulting in many of them existing in little more than name.
22.       It was observed that all gravity systems which had been constructed with a
high degree of community participation and a clear sense of ownership by the community
were in reasonable working order, whilst all the vandalized or broken systems had been
planned and constructed by non-parielclpatory methods. The collection of funds is also
much easier when they are managed by the community, rather than paying an outside
organization over which it has little control, and which may or may not provide the
services.
23*       One Important move being made towards capital cost recovery is the
requirement for community contributions in kind (labor and basic materials available
or manufactured In the community) to construction. It has been successfully applied
by some of the larger N00., and typical contributions range from 151-301.   The
principle of cash cost recovery is, however, less well established, if at all, in the
rural sector. A few small schemes have been constructed by community groups on t ieir
own initiative.
24.       Willinaness to Pav.   Overall, 831 of the households surveyed stated that
they required Improved water supply (77Z In Badulla, 81S In Eatara and 911 in
Ratnapura). In the order of stated preference, the type of water supply desired was
houso connections, standpipes end protected wells. Only 6S of households are currently
paying for water (4.41 for house connections, 1.2S for water from water vendors, and



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
0.2Z other). Approximately two-thirds of those surveyed stated their willingness to
contribute labor or materials to water supply projects.
G. Environmental Asnects
25.       Rainfall data recorded at a number of rainfall stations in and around the
three project Districts show that the trend In the period between 1960 and the present
has bEen a decrease in rainfall from year to year. Forest cover ha. also been reducing
at a rate of about 1S of the total land area from about 1950 to date.  The two
phenomena may be related. Another consequence of forest degradation is the increase
in runoff of streasm and rivers, and this has implications on water supplies. Local
residents also perceive that the planting of fast growing trees (conifers and
eucalyptus) deplete groundwater resources in springs and welle. The importance of
forest conservation for maintaining water resources clearly emerges as an issue.
26.       Effluent from tea, rubber and other industries contains pollutants which
adversely affect water quality. Under the National Environment Act No. 47 of 1980,
such industries are required to obtain a license from the Central Environmental
Authority. However, this agency is still relatively weak, and industrial pollution
continues to be a problem.
S. Costs
27.       Three program cost scenarios were developed during the study.  They are
presented in Table 5 below.
Table 5
Scenario No.                     SLRs              USS Eauivalent
---- (1991 costs, million) ----
1                            738.59                17.58
2                            532.37                12.62
3                            918.38                21.76
Scenario No. 1 was developed by adjusting the target coverage levels so a
to match the required livestments with the estimated P0 capabilities. It
leads to lOO coverage at the end of 10 years.
Scenario No. 2 was developed to assess the effect of the estimates made of
P0 capacity. While Scenario No. 1 was based on estimates of present
capacity, this scenario halves the estimated capacities of all agencies
except the NWSDB, which  is the proven capacity in the field of pumped,
piped supplieo, to which its role will be restricted. This scenario leads
to about 802 coverage across the three project Districts after 10 years.
Scenario No. 3 presents the effects of aiming for a higher service level.
It is based on providing gravity supplies, wher. possible, protected open
wells within 250 i of houses as a second priority, and tube wells where



- 41 -
ANNEXI
Page 8 of 9
neither of these will  be possible.  Additionally, a small increase in
handpump  shallow vells  is allowed for,, as may be required by  some
communities, and NWSDB pumped, piped supplies also increase at a marginal
rate. Protected wells are discounted as a source, being substituted by a
combination of handpump shallow wells and tube wells, vithin 150 m of
houses.  Overall coverage of the three Districts comes to 60S aftee 10
years, while for Badulla it is around 70S.  This arises from the high
potential for gravity supplies which are a cost-effective way of providing
a high level of service.
28.       For further planning purposes, Scenario No. 1, the base case, was adopted
by COSL.
I. Economic Justification
29.       The proposed expenditure on the three Districts' programs was compared to
overall GOSL expenditure, and to sector expenditure. With total planned development
expenditure for Sri Lanka in 1992 of about SLRt.40,000 million, including sector
expenditure of around SLRe.2,000 million, program costs will amount to only O.1S of
total expenditure, and 2.32 of sector expenditure, in the first year of the program.
The equivalent figures aggregated over 10 years amount to 0.3Z and 71 of the total and
sector development expenditures, respectively.
30.       A cost-benefit analysis was carried out. Economic costs were calculated for
the whole program, as vere the monthly benefits per household required to give
different internal rates of return aver a 20 year period. Table 6 below sets out the
required benefits per household per month for differing internal rates of return for
the whole program and the water element only.
Table 6
Internal Rate               Benefits per Household per mouth (SLRe)
of Return                   Whole Program                Water only
5S                          40.00                        33.00
101                         51.00                        42.00
15S                         63.00                        51.00
20S                          76.00                        61.00
The required benefits were translated Into values of water collector's time by
comparing the distances travelled to existing Improved and unimproved water sources.
The mean distance to improved sources was 90 m, while the figure for unimproved sources
was 119 m. The proportional reduction in mean collection journey tim per household
came to just under 30 minutes. Applying this to the figures in Table 6 yielded the
Implied values for women's tims as presented i_ Table 7.



- 42 -
aN I
Page 9 of 9
Table 7
Internal Rate                    Value for Women'. Tim. (SLRs/hr)
of Return                        Whole Proaram         Water only
52                               2.80                 2.30
102                               3.60                 2.90
;52                               4.40                 3.60
202                               5.30                 4.30
These values compare favorably to the mean hourly wage rate for women derived from
surveys, of around SLRs 5.00 par hour. Assuming the real value is around half of this,
thel'internal rate of return would be around 72 for the water expenditure only case.
J. Priority Investment Proaramg
31.       Arising out of the recommendations of DDP., Priority Investment Program  were
prepared for the three Districts. They are the subject of this Staff Appraisal Report,
and complete reports are avAilable in the Project File.



- 43 -
T 2
Page I _f 7
CQOPNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Descrigtion
1.        The project includes the following components:
(a) Program Development;
(b) Water Supply;
(c) Sanitation;
(d) Hygiene Education;
(e) Training;
(f)  Project Management; and
(g) Technical Assistance.
Program Develoyment: (USS1.O million)
2.        Program  development  would  include  the  following  activities:
publicizing the program, assessing Partner Organizations (POs), registering
comaunity-based organizations  (CBOs),  and project planning.   The National
Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit (CWSPU) would have overall
responsibility for managing these sativities.
Ca)  Publicity    The CWSPU would use  the media  (radio,  television,
newspaper., etc. as appropriate), to advise the population of the
program, and the criteria that would be required to be fulfilled to
participate in the program. It would also contact potential POs to
elicit their help in implementing the program.  At the Division4
Government Agent/Pradeshiya Sabha level, public meetings would be held
to further explain the scope and requirements of the program, and the
potential benefits of investing in improved water supply and
sanitation. Expected participants would include representatives of
POs, CBOs, the Provincial and local government structure and the
general public.
(b)  PO Assessment The CWSPU would make assessments of potential POs. The
project would help POs to build up its existing capacity and
expertise, as required. This would be done in a series of steps, from
identification of the PO, through assessment and registration, to
training and orientation. During the first four years of involvement
in the program, each PO would receive a predetermined, decreasing
percentage of its project costs to cover logistical strengthening,
such as the acquisition of extra staff, offices and vehicles. This
expenditure reflects the higher unit costs to be expected while the
PO0 are still developing its capabilities to implement the program.
A PO is not expected, nor necessarily encouraged, to retain all the



- 44 -
ANNX 2
Page 2 of 7
necessary expertise in-house to effectively participate; it could team
up with another PO which has the relevant expertise.
(c) Registration of CBOs A prerequisite for a community to participate
in the program is the formation of an organization which would act as
a link between the CWSPU,  POs and members  of the communities
themselves.   Sri Lanka has  a  long history  of  community-based
involvement in civic and religious affairs within the community. An
existing CBO could vell be used for the project, or a new one created.
POs would assist a community, if necessary, to (i) form a society,
such as establishing a constitution, obtaining legal status, electing
office bearers and opening a bank account; (ii) provide training in
basic management and bookkeeping; and (iii) provide orientation on
health and environmental matters.
(d) Proiect Plannina Project planning would be a participatory process
aimed at establishing a perceived need on the part of the community
for improved water supply and sanitation. The process would consist
of visits by the PO to the CBO, to help the latter identify its
priorities in the subsector, and initiate a proposal, which, after an
iterative process (Annex 7), would be submitted to the CWSPU for
approval and funding. Most proposals are expected to be reviewed and
approved at the District level. Exceptions would include proposals
for the larger, and more costly, pumped schemes, which would be over
the threshold limit of the District CWSPU, and would, therefore,
require to be approved at the National Unit.
Water SUPP1vt (USS17.2 million)
3.        Once the community,  as represented by the CBO,  is sufficiently
mobilized, and perceives that water supply is a priority need of the community,
further work would be done by the CBO/community and the PO to deve'op a water
project. Should the project be approved by the CWSPU, a fixed proportion of the
estimated project cost would be released to the PO for the preparation of final
designs, if required.  On approval of the designs, the CWSPU would sign a
standardized agreement with the PO and CBO for implementation of the scheme.
4.        The final "mix" of technology options would only be known after scheme
proposals have been submitted for consideration, reviewed, modified as necessary
to conform to technical, financial and other agreed criteria, and approved for
funding by the CWSPU.  For purposes  of costing the project, the following
assumptions as to the final technology "mix" were made, based on extensive
surveys and discussions during the project preparation phase, and on the basis
of the local hydrogeological situation.



- 45 -
oNXE 2
Pag. 3 of 7
Number to be      Population
Tvie of Scheme      Constructed        Served (000)
Gravity,  25 households (H/H)               97
Gravity,  50 H/H            91
Gravity,  75 H/H            84             139
Gravity, 120 H/H            79
Gravity, 225 H/H            71
Handpump (HP)
Shallow Wells, lOm       46               10
HP Shallow Wells, 4m        22
HP Tube Wells,   50m       662             135
Protected Wells, lOm    2,410
Protected Wells,  4m    1,113              287
Pumped (HuR)             13,740             77
Total                                     648
Sanitation: (USS1.9 million)
5.        After assessment by the PO that a community indicates a need for
sanitation, the PO/CBO would apply to the CWSPU for approval of a revolving fund
to oe granted to, and to be managed by, the CB0, with an initial deposit of up
to SLRs 10,000. The CBO would provide interest-free loans to those individuals
in the community who need to construct or upgrade their sanitation services, and
who are capable of repaying their loans within two years. The maximum projected
loan amount for a new latrine would represent about two third of the cost. A
loan provision for up to half of the cost has been made for upgrading existing
latrines in need of repair.
6.        After a year of managing the fund satisfactorily, the CB0 would have
the option of applying for an increase in the fund size, should demand warrant
it. Once complete latrine coverage is achieved, the funds still available in the
revolving account could be used by the CB0 for the periodic cost of replacement
of latrine pits, emptying pits, and expansion or upgrading of the sanitation
service.
7.        For project costing purposes, the sanitation program  isumes to cover
over 3,800 villages, plus the 17 small towns in the project area.
8.        CBOs may  also  apply  for additional  funds  to construct/upgrade
sanitation facilities in: (a) the 224 schools in the project area which currently
lack them, (b) In up to 1,000 pre-schools, and (c) existing facilities in another
1,314 schools. Unit costs of school latrines are estimated at SLRo 7,000 per
unit, with an average of six units required per school. Pre-school unit costs
are estimated at SLR. 3,000. The difference between the pre-school and primary
school costs is due to the much smaller unit required for pro-school.



- 46 -
ANNEX-2
Page 4 of 7
fygiene Educationt (USS1.5 million)
9.        The objectives of this component are to:
(a) inform people in the three project Districts of water borne diseases:
causes, effects and preventiont
(b) implement a community-based hygiene education program through trained
village volunteer,, with the collaboration and guidance of Government
health workers;
(c) train health personnel, both Government and non-government, on hygiene
education principles and methods, thereby enabling them to actively
participate in the health education activities related to water and
sanitation; and
Cd) build up the institutional capacity of the POs to enable them to carry
out hygiene education programs more effectively.
10.       At  the national  level,  the Ministry of Health  (NON) would be
responsible for promoting health and better sanitation in the project area. Thil
would be accomplished, firstly, through mass media means, e.g., radio, television
and newspapers. While such messages would primarily be targeted towards the
potential recipients of the project's investments, the communitioa, the
politicians, government officers and PO staff would also benefit.   As the
ultimate success of such a program has to be rooted in the community itself, the
project would provide funds for the training of selected village volunteers who
would be supported by the public health staff.  This would be done by MOE staff,
and the POs during their program development phase.   As not all PO  would
necessarily have the in-house expertise to provide hygiene education as part of
their program development effort, they would be required to contract such
experts, who could well be MOB officers. The National Water Supply and Drainage
Board and Pradeshiya Sabhas would rely solely on NOR staff for hygiene education.
11.       The CWSPU would have overall responsibility at the District level for
training in hygiene education. It would, therefore, develop programs which would
orient and train CBO members, leaders, volunteer workers, school teacher. as well
as MO0 staff, as necessary.
12.       The project also would provide equipment and educational materials
(e.g., vehicles, audio visual equipment and software) to: (a) PO staff who
undertake hygiene education in the coamunities they are helping tu organize, and
(b) the health staff of the Regional Director of Health Services, who deal with
the Divisional Government Agents.
Traginnt: (USSO.4 million)
13.       To overcome the existing constraints on implementation capacity in the
sector, all potential agencies need to be inducted into the program. Likewise,
in order to achieve sustainability of investments at the community level,
operation and maintenance capability needs to be assured. The innovative nature



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
of the project will require that extensive support be given to POs and CBOs. The
newly-created intermediary organization, the CWSPUQ will also need to be
supported if it is to fulfill, effectively, its role of guiding and monitoring
the project. Training will, therefore, play a crucial role if the project is to
be successful.
14.       The CWSPU staff structure i'eludes a training officer who would be
responsible to the Director for formulating and organizing all the training
requirements of the project. The CWSPU staff itself will need training, and
there is provision in the project for both local and overseas training.
15.       In addition to the training requirements of the CWSPU staff mentioned
above, the following training activities would be undertaken:
(a) orientation of locally elected off-:ials;
(b) training of P0 staff to enable POs to both expand the scale of its
operations in the sector, and to develop and build upon its existing
expertise;
gc) training of CBO staff in: (i) the planning, and implementation of
schemes; (ii) financial management (e.g., for sanitation revolving
funds); and (iii) operation and maintenance (a major portion of the
above training is to be provided through the POs); and
(d) the preparation and distribution of training materials and resources.
Project Manaxement: (USS3.3 million)
16.       This component would finance the cost of management at the CWSPU and
would include the establishment, equipping and operatic a of the CWSPU, with staff
at the Rational unit in Colombo, and branch offices in each of the three project
Districts. As the CWSPU is a new organization, all its costs (i.e., salaries and
allowances of Government-appointed staff, fees and allowances of contract staff,
office and other equipment, and recurrent costs) are being treated as project
investment costs and, therefore, included in the project costs.  For costing
purposes, all staff positions have beer treated as contract staff positions.
17.       This component would also include the establishment of a revolving
fund of US$500,000 equivalent to be managed by CWSPU to promote private sector
participation in the systems maintenance. The promotion would include workshops
of private sector technicians and loans for tools and equipment, as well as
design and test a system which allow CBOs to hire private companies to supervise
the operation of the system, and maintain them.
Technical Assistance: (USS7g0 million)
18.       Technical Assistance.  As a newly created organization, charged with
implementing an innovative project, the CWSPU will require the assistance of
experts with backgrounds in rural water supply, sanitation and social
communications.  The project, therefore, provides for the financing of the



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
cenwultancy costs of a Technical Support Cell over the implementation period of
the project.
Terms of reference for the Technical Support Cell are shown in Annex 3.
19.       Studies  There will be a need for a number of studies and applied
research throughout the implementation period of the project. Some of this work
has already been identifled, but other work may arise out of problems that might
be identified during implementation.  The following topics are likely to be
studied and/or researched:
(a)  Imorovements  to planning and  evaluation procedures  for nroiect
Imolementatlon.   Further development is required on standard data
collection techniques for bett r interpretation of the definition of
coverage, service levels, community mobilization potential and micro
water sources. As good data are essential for planning, but expensive
and time-consuming to collect, applied research might help determine
the minimum data requirements, and tha most cost-effective means of
obtaining them.
(Estimated staff time - 39 months.)
(b)  Cleanliness of water from 2rotected wells.  The study would collect
data on existing protected wells to determine the factors causing
pollution. These may include behavioral factors, the Intensity of
well use, state of repair, and water lifting methods. The results
might lead to experimental well design, improved lifting methods and
revised hygiene education.
(Estimated staff time - 62 months)
(e)  Hvdroloay and manatement of micro-catchment areas. The management of
micro-scale shallow groundwater resources may be the key to a cost-
effective rural water supply program, but the concept is not yet well
understood. Water resources research has tended ro concentrate on
major catcbments. A better understanding of small catcbment area'
would assist In the assessment of water resources for indiv2,;,al
schemes, and identify the best techniques for the protection of these
catcbments.
(Estimated staff time - 31 months.)
(d) Fegrocement Tanks. A limited number of ferrocement water storage
tanks has been constructed in Sri Lanka.  The technique could be
disseminated mcre widely as it appears to be cost-effective.
(Estimated staff time - 5 months.)
(e)  Latrine Desin.  Some latrine floors/slabs have been found to be
defective, and there may be a need for using reinforced concrete.
However, there are other alternatives in use elsewhere in the world,
such unreainforced concrete or brickwork in a dome format, which have
proved successful. This should be further researched.
(gEtimated staff time - 4 months.)



- 49 -
NEX 2
Page 7 of 7
(f)  Pilot Catchment Protection for Selected Schemes.  Forest cover in Sri
Lanka has been reducing at the rate of about 1S of the total land area
from about 1950.   Rainfall, as recorded at a number of measuring
stations, has been decreasing since 1960. The two phenomena may be
linked. Research would be undertaken to determine, inter alia: (i)
what kind of vegetation would have a poeitive effect of the quality
and quantity of water supply; (ii) what kind of other protection
measures would be cost-effective and economic (e.g., the growing of
hedgerows, with the land in-between being farmed), which would
prevent, or slow down erosion and runoff.
(Estimated staff time - 24 months.)
(g) District Development Plan Pre2aration. The project includes provision
for the preparation of additional District Development Plans and
Priority Investment Programs.
(Estimated staff time - 150 months.)
20.       Terms of reference for the above studies are under preparation.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 10
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATrON PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference: Technical Support Cell
1.    Background
1.1 The Government of Sri Lanka, with the assistance of the World
Bank and the United Nations Development Programme has recently
prepared District Development Plans and Priority Investment
Programmes for the Districts of Matara, Badulla and Ratnapura,
as part of its long term programme of improving water supply,
sanitation and human waste disposal and hygiene conditions in
its rural areas. An assessment of the current situation was
made to identify constraints to achievement of desired targets
for coverage with acceptable water supply and waste disposal
facilities. Strategies to overcome these constraints were
developed which would involve modification in procedures for
implementation of water supply schemes, institutional
strengthening through human resources development and
enhancement of planning, training, technical capability, and
increased community involvement in the community management
and sustainability of rural water supply systems.
1.2  Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura are three contiguous southern
districts. Their area includes a range of highland, lowland
and coastal envitonments and rainfall ranging from an annual
mean of over 5000 mm in northeast Ratnapura to below 1500 mm
in southwest Ratnapura and northern Badulla. Tea estates are
present in all districts. Rural populations for Badulla,
Matara and Ratnapura are 519,000,   597,000, and 721,000
respectively. Water supply coverage is 23, 49, & 392 In rural
areas and 38, 75, and 44S on the tea estates. Sanitation
coverage is 74, 87 and 85X. Water supply coverage being
defined as an acceptable source (comprising simple protected
wells, handpump wells and piped systems) within 250m of the
house in these districts. Most of the households not covered
rely on unprotected wells, springs or surface water sources.
2.    Project
2.1  The Government of Sri Lanka has applied for a Credit from the
International Development Association in various currencies
equivalent to US$ 24.3 million towards the cost of the
Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project (CWSSP). It is
intended that part of the proceeds of this Credit would be
applied to eligible payments for the services described in the
document.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10
2.2  The Ministry of Housing & Construction proposes to recruit
Consultant (Consulting Firm or Consortium of Consultants) for
the implementation of the CWSSP. This project is designed to
provide improved domestic water supply, sanitation facilities
and hygiene education to about 650,000 people in the rural
areas and small towns in the Districts of Badulla, Matara and
Ratnapura. The project is planned to be implemented over a
five year period and will utilize a community based approach
to planning, installation and operation of the facilities.
2.3  The lead GOSL agency for this project will be the Community
Water  Supply  and  Sanitation  Programme  Unit  (CWSPU),
established in the Ministry of Housing & Construction.
Planning, design, installation and operation of water supply
and sanitation systems will be carried out by community-based
organizations,  in  partnership  with    POs  (NGOs,  Local
Government Institutions and the National Water Supply &
Drainage Board) within the parameters laid down by, and under
the general oversight of, the CWSPU. The Project will have a
major institutional development component, including both the
consolidation of the CWSPU and extensive training and capacity
development  within  the   PO  and   the   community-based
organizations which have the ultimate responsibility for the
services provided through the project.
3.    Objective
3.1  The objective of the proposed Technical Support Unit (TSU)
consultancy is to provide competent technical assistance to
the CWSPU through experienced professionals who are well
acquainted with rural water supply, sanitation and hygiene
education. They will assist in institutional development,
project management, training, community development, hygiene
education, financial management strengthening, and engineering
design. A concurrent objective is to ensure the implementation
and commissioning of well designed water supply schemes and
sanitation program-es In which the community users have been
involved in the development process and have assumed
responsibility for management, operation and maintenance of
the systems.
4.    Scope of Service
The three districts' investment programme will act as a pilot and
foundation for the establishment of new policies and procedures in
the rural water and sanitation sector as a whole. A pre-programme
phase has already begun which includess
a)   establishment, staffing and equipping the central CWSPU and
one district branch office, including the establishment of
basic administrative and accounting procedures 



- 52 -
ANNX 3
Page 3 of 10
b)   formation of national and district advisory committees;
c)   development and negotiation of initial project development
contracts between the CWSPU and the main P0o (NWSDB, N00s,
Pradeshiya Sabha, and if possible, a tea estate corporation);
d)   planning and implementation of a limited number of water
supply, sanitation and hygiene education projects; and
e)   development of the first year project programme, workplan and
budget.
The services requires technical support to the CWSPU provided by an
experienced team of professionals with relevant background and
experience in rural water supply and sanitation, community
development and communications.
The Consultant will provide these services within the following
phases under this contracts
4.1 Phase I (Start-up - Approximately 2 years)
At the start of the programme, the technical assistance team
will be mobilized to act as counterpart advisors to the CWSPU
national unit professional staff. The team shall consist of
the following members:
TSU  manager,  with  a  community  and  institutional
development background to work at management, planning
and policy levels to assist in the establishment of the
programme;
*     Commaunity development specialist, to work with POs on
methodology development;
*     Engineer, to assist in the establishment of appropriate
tecnnical standards and procedures;
*     Ar:countant and MIS specialist, who will assist in
formulating   the   administrative    infrastructure,
f:'.nancial controls, and management information systems
required for the multi-agency programme;
*     Traliing specialist, to develop training programmes.
The first tasks to be undertaken by the CWSPU/TSU will be:
a)   recruitment and orientation of additional CWSPU staff;
b)   development and establishment of CWSPU policies, procedures,
and management information systems;



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
c)   continuation  and  analysis  of  the  pilot  programme  work
currently in progress;
d)   preparation  of  training  courses,  workshops  and  resource
materials for Partner Organization (PO) staff, public servants
and elected office-bearers.
All the TSU personnel mentioned above will be directly involved in
the above, providing orientation, training and assistance to CWSPU
staff.
As soon as possible, publicity and PO assessment and registration
will start so that a stream of project proposals is generated.
Shortly after mobilization, PO training will begin with the first
round of orientation workshops. Monitoring procedures and
performance evaluation criteria will be established so that within
six months from the beginning of the programme a preliminary
evaluation of methods and procedures can take place. This will
provide a basis for a general revision of draft manuals and
procedures to be completed in the first part of the second year of
the programme.
Once the initial iteration of experiment/evaluation/revision has
been completed, the basic procedures and methods of the CWSPU may
be  sufficiently well  established  to allow withdrawal  of  the
accountant and MIS specialist. The remaining technical support
during this phase will focus on training, monitoring and continued
institutional development.
4.2 Phase II (Methods Consolidation Phase)
At the end of Phase I, a phase of consolidation will begin.
Experiences will be reviewed, procedures redefined, manuals
updated and a second (refresher) round of staff training in
the agreed procedures carried out. This will enable expansion
of the programme into other districts. One of the most
important elements of the consolidation process is the
revision of project initiation and development procedures.
Administrative and monitoring procedures will be reviewed,
formalized and streamlined, including upgrading of the MIS to
deal with the practically defined requirements of the CWSPU.
This phase will begin with a major evaluation of the first two
years' progress, with the participation of an external
monitor. This will take 2-3 months and will be immediately
followed by the systematic upgrading of all procedures and
manuals, followed in turn by any training identified as
necessary to incorporate the revisions. All four remaining



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
technical assistance personnel may be required for this
process.
The MIS specialist may be recalled for nine months during this
phase and extending into the expansion phase. This substantial
input may be necessary because of the large amount of data
generated by the programme.
4.3 Phase III (Expansion Phase)
The first two and a half years of the programme will focus on
Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura. By the expansion phase, the
CWSPU should be sufficiently well established to enable more
districts to enter the programme. Project implementation will
be largely a matter of replication in the new districts. For
this the TSU will be reduced to a single full time person (TSU
manager), whose planning and administrative skills and
experience will be required. During the first few months of
expansion, the MIS specialist will be required to establish
new and expanded data management capacity within the CWSPU.
There will likely also be a requirement for short term inputs
from consultants to assist in overcoming specific bottlenecks
and problems caused by the programmes expansion into new
areas.
4.4  Phase IV (Management Consolidation Phase)
A major internal evaluation will be carried out with the main
emphasis on improving programme management efficiently rather
than on the programme expansion which was the focus of the
prior phase. Planning and administration procedures will be
reviewed and revised with a view to being used in the nation-
wide programme. It is anticipated that reorganization, staff
changes and orientation will be required to Improve the
programe efficiently and reflect its expanded character.
This will be the last phase vith full-time technical
assistance inputs in the form of the TSU manager. The first
consolidation phase will be based on limited experience,
whilst a major evaluation and final reformulation at this
stage will establish the CWSPU as a national sector agency
with the capacity to address rural water supply and sanitation
needs on national basis.
5.    TSU Inputs
Technical assistance inputs to the phases as set out above will be
of three main types: programme development or in-line tasks,
training, and monitoring.



- 55 -
Page 6 of 10
5.1 Programe development will irAclude:
*     Assistance to the MHC in setting up the CWSPU and
recruiting staff.
*     Establishing working methods  and  procedures,  with
special emphasis on efficient administrative systems.
*     Establishing the MIS
*     Establishing accounting systems
Development of programme plans and planning procedures
*     Planning and assisting in the implementation of a
programe oZ support to the private sector.
*     Establishing relationships between ,he CWSPU, POo, and
the community based organizations.
*     Assist  in  the  establishment  of  good  personnel
management, incentive systems and working conditions in
the CWSPU.
*     Provide direct inputs into publicity campaigns, CBO and
PO support and project development and implementation.
Assist in the provision of logistic support to POs.
Preparation of operational and procedures manuals.
*     Development of resource materials, such as manual. and
flip charts, for use by POs. buch of this  already
exists, and needs only to be identified, adapted if
necessary and channelled to where it is required. In
other cases, the need may be identifLed for new
materials, the production of which would be supervised
by the TSU.
*     Assist in establishing maintenance support systems to
back up community maintenance of water supply and
sanitation facilities.
5.2  Training
Training of staff in the CWSPU and other programme
participants is a major element of the technical support
programme. It may be carried out directly or indirectly by
technical assistance personnel, or by other organizations
inside and outside Sri Lanka under the orientation and
supervision of the programme. In addition to formal training,
the technical assistance personnel will be expected to develop



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
the skills of their colleagues in the CWSPU during day-to-day
activities. Formal training activities will includet
*     Trair.ing in the operation of the accounting systems
*     Training for managers in project and institutional
development and management.
*     Seminars and workshops for various groups of officials
and politicians involved with the programme to educate
them on and to refine the objectives and methods
employed.
*     Arranging for workers of different POs to learn from
the successful experiences of others.
*     Training of trainers within the POs or "service NGOs"
(those providing training services to other POs). This
will focus on both technical aspects of scheme design,
construction and operation, and social skills for those
working on community mobilization, communications and
marketing, hygiene education, and sanitation promotion.
*     Identifying  and  supporting  training  agencies  with
course development and resource materials, tailoring
training opportunities to programme requirements, and
promoting and supporting the training of their staff by
Poo.
*     Arranging study tours and overseas training for CWSPU
senior staff.
5.3 MonLtoring
Monitoring will be important due to the large number of
agencies and projects involved in the programme. Because of
the large amount of institutional strengthening to be carried
out under the programme, monitoring should be combined with
technical support to prevent problems before they occur.
Factors for which monitoring programmes must be developed
include:
*     Budgeting and expenditure.
*     Technical st&ndards.
*     Performance  of  POs  in  project  development  and
implementation.



- 57 -
ANX 3
Page 8 of 10
Progress  in  increasing  coverage  levels,  and  the
distribution of this increased coverage between
different geographical areas and target groups.
Experience gained from these monitoring activities will be
incorporated into the ongoing monitoring programmes set up to
be continuously undertaken by the CWSPU.
5.4  Evaluation
A fourth function, evaluation, will draw together all the
factors discussed above. Two main evaluations will be carried
out. The first, in year three, will aim to consolidate the
experience of the first two years' implementation into a
series of methodological guidelines for project development
and implementation, and programme management. The second major
evaluation, in year five, will focus more exclusively on the
expanded programme management, so as to formalize or correct
procedures prior to the departure of full time technical
support.
5.5  Guideline
Only the above programme is provided for guidance. Proposers
are encouraged to propose changes which they believe will
result in improved project implementation.
6.    Time Frame
The contract for this consultancy services will extend throughout
the entire programme period, commencing approximately December 1992.
Technical assistance will be given during years one to five. This
time frame is tentative and is given for the guidance only. The
Consultants may propose their own time frame or the Ministry of
Housing and Construction may extend or reduce the schedule as may
be necessary.
7.    Reporting Requirements
The consultants shall prepare quarterly progress reports which
describe activities  in each major element of the assignment,
identify milestones achieved and difficulties encountered, indicate
staff levels over the period, indicate activities planned for the
next three months and provide a statement of budget planned versus
actual. All outputs (see 5 above) shall be fully documented. These
reports will be submitted to the National Project Director, Ministry
of Housing and Construction.
The Consultant shall in his proposal set out details of his
reporting proposals, including examples and format.



- 58 -
AMX 3
Page 9 of 10
8.    Faclities to be provlded by the Client
The Mlnistry of Housing and Construction shall make the followLng
available to the consultant for the duration of the assignment:
(a)  designated, suitably qualified CWSPU staff as shown below
(para), with whom the consultants will work on a full time
basisl and
(b)  access to all available relevant reports and data required to
undertake the assignment.
(c)  office space in the M/H&C (Sethsiripaya)
(d)  Offlce supplies, equlpment and vehicles as mutually determlned
to be necessary (may be provided dLrectly by GOSL or by the
contractor who would be then reimbursed).
9.    FacilltLes to be provLded by the Consultant
The Consultant shall include in his financial proposal the following
items for the duration of the assignment:
(a) All personnel costs including international and local travel
and housing accommodation (provlde complete detail);
(b)  All other costs anticipated to be billed to the GOSL (provide
complete detail).
10.   Execution of AssLgnment
10.1 Consultant Inputs
The consultant will be requlred to assign qualLfied and
experLenced staff for the execution of this project
which is expected to extend over a period of five
years. The consultants are expected to assocLate wlth
and make full use of the national consulting expertise.
This work should be undertaken in close conjunction
wlth the counterpart staff nomlnated by the National
Project Director, Ministry of Housing and Construction.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
11.   Project Staffing (estimated requirements)
Position Designation           No. Staff
years
Project Manager                        5.00
Com.Dev.Specialist                     2.75
Training Specialist                    2.50
RWSS Engineer                          1.75
Hydrogeolist                           1.00
M&E/MIS Specialist                     2.75
Financial Advisor                      1.50
Short Term Consultancy                 2.00
TOTAL TA INPUT (MAN-YEARS)             19. 25
12.   Mode of Payment
Fees will be paid monthly on submission of progress claims listing
staff, time worked and charge rates. The Consultant's staff will
keep time-sheets and financial records which uill be subject to
audits.
13.   Local Lavs, Rules & Regulations
The consultants shall be subject to all laws, rules and regulations
of the Government of Sri Lanka and local authorities, including
taxation legislation.
14.   Language
The language for this consultancy shall be English. Each of the
proposed Consultant staff must have the capability to undertake his
or her assignment completely and proficiently   in the english
language. Local staff who shall be given preference when selecting
candidates, provided they meet the english proficiency requirement.
15.   Comments by Consultants
The consultant is encouraged to make any comments, suggestions and
proposals for improvements to these terms of reference in its
technical proposal.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
Commuty Water Supply and Sanftation Project
SLRs ftllfon
Detailed Cost Estfmates
Summary Accouts by Year
Base Costs                                Foreign Exchngo
1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     Total      X     Amount
INVESTMENT COSTS
PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT                    2.7      3.9      6.0       8.3     10.6    31.5       8.6      2.7
Water Supply                      73.8    87.5    113.3   142.2    165.7   582.4         16.0    92.9
SANITATION                             7.4     10.4    12.8       15.8     15.3     61.7      1.1      0.7
HYGIENE EDUCATION                     13.7      8.9      9.0       8.9      9.1     49.5     15.0      7.4
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
CWSPU                             20.1     18.0    18.0    18.0        17.1     91.2     14.5     13.2
Revolving Furd                     3.0      4.0      4.5       4.5      6.0     22.0    60.0      13.2
TRAINING                               5.3      3.6       1.8      2.1      2.2     14.9    28.1       4.2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE &
STUDIES
Pr. Prep. Facility                29.3      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     29.3     83.9     24.6
Tech. Support Cell                42.2     21.0    34.1       20.7     20.1    138.0    83.9    115.8
Studies & Research                 1.1      5.5      15.3     44.3      8.1     74.3    45.3      33.7
TOTAL BASE COST                      198.5   162.?   214.8   264.7   254.1   1094.8    28.2   308.4
Physical Contingencies            15.6    12.2       16.2    19.9      17.8    81.7      28.0     22.9
Price Contifngencies              12.6    23.3    44.9    73.7    88.5    242.9          13.0    31.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   226.7   198.1   275.9   358.3    360.4   1419.4    25.6   362.9
Taxes                             20.4      7.5     10.4      13.0     15.3    66.5       0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                  90.8    41.2    59.4    66.2    50.2   307.7    100.0   307.7
.............. ..................................................................................................



SRI LANKA
cmmlity hater Suply en  Sanitation Project
Suimary Acco.ats by Year
Totats including Contingencies                                Totals including Contingercies
SLRs million                                                  USS million
....................................................          ------------------------------------------------------..................... ............... ................................. ,, ..  ,__  
1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      Total    1993        1994       1995      1996      1997       TotaL
IWVESTMIENT COSTS
PROGRA  DEVELOPNENT                          3.3       5.2        8.5      12.3      16.5       45.7       0.1       0.1        0.2       0.3       0.4        1.0
WATER SUPPLY                                83.2    105.5      144.5    191.0    233.1        757.2        1.9       2.4        3.3       4.3       5.3       17.2
SANITATION                                   8.8      13.e      17.4       22.6      23.0      85.0        0.2       0.3        0.4       0.5       0.5        1.9
HYGIENE EDUCATION                           16.1      11.2      12.1       12.5      13.4      65.5        0.4       0.3        0.3       0.3       0.3        1.5
PROJECT MAUIGEMENT
CvSPU                                  37.2      19.8       21.9      22.7      24.4      126.0       0.8        0.5       0.5       0.5        0.6       2.9
Revolving Fund                          3.0       4.0        4.5       4.5        6.0       2.2       0.0        0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.5
TRAINING                                     6.2       4.4       2.5        2.9       3.3       19.2       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE &
STUDIES
Pr. Prep. Facility                     29.3       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      29.3       0.7        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.7
Tech. St port Cell                     48.5      25.1       42.5      26.7      27.0    169.8         1.1        0.6       1.0       0.6        0.6       3.9
Studies & Research                      1.3       6.7       19.8      60.0       11.9      99.7       0.0        0.2       0.4        1.4       0.3       2.3
~~~~~~~~............................ ...........................................................................  ..... ..
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       237.0    195.1       27.5      355,3    358.6   1399.6           5.4       4.5       6.2        8.1       8.2      32.3
0
qfD|



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
at LAWkC
Commity Water S tply  d Sanitation Project
Dtailed Cout Table
T ehnical $upo t Cell
Persomtl                              thit    1         1994     1995     1996     1997    Total
..............                        ....     ....  . . ....    ....  . . . .....  ....    ..... ............ ..
Project _mger                         yr    1.00        1.00     1.00     1.00     1.uO     5.00
Cm. dewt. pecilist                    war      1.00     0.50     0.75     0.25     0.25     2.75
Riss ealner                           yer    1.00       0.25     0.25              0.25     1.75
Hydrogeologfst                        war    O.SO                0.25     0.25              1.00
Training specialtit                   war      1.00     0.50     0.50    0.25      0.25     2.50
Finanisal advisor                     war      1.00              0.25              0.25     1.50
NUINIS  peclaliat                     yer      1.00    0.25      1.00     0.25     0.25     2.75
Forei1  consulttst                   month              3.00     3.00     3.00     3.00    12.00
Local consultants                    month    3.00      3.00     3.00     3.00             12.00
1093     199      199      1996    1997
Project man_ r               F       r7       7700    7.700 7w700    7,700    7,700   38,500
Co. dsvt. specalist          F       6,400   6,400    3,200   4,600    1.600    1,600   17,600
RMS eniner                   L       2,650    2,650      663      665        0      663    4,636
Hydrogeologfst               F       6,200   3,100         0    1,550    1.550        0   6,200
Training specaltist          F       6.310    6.310    3,155   3.155    1,578    1,578   15.775
Finncal adviwor              L       2,650    2,650        0      663        0      663    3,975
NI/NS specialist             F       7.000    7,000    1.750    7,000    1.750    1.750   19,250
Foreign consultants          F        670        0    2,610   2,325    2,66S    2,675   10,275
Local consultants            L         220      660      660      660      660        0    2,640
0
oafing                                600    3.600    1,800   2.80       1,600    1,400   11,200
Per diem                                 6        0      540      540      540      540   2,160
Airferes                          no.            14        5       15        7       10       51
rate/ cst          150   2,100      750   2.250    1,050    1.500   7,650
Total foreign            (le s million)       32.61    18.11   29.32    18.43    1T.34   115.82
Total Locatl             (aLfs mliton)         9.56    2.92    4.79       2.26     2.73    22.25
Physfeal contino ncies  (SIRs   llion)        4.22    2.10    3.41       2.07     2.01    13.81
Price contingencies     (SfRS m  liton)        2.09     1.9      4.94     3.94     4.94    17.90
..... ..Ttl(I milo...... 4..4 .70    27.01.169.75
Totat                    (SLRs oft t on)      48.a8   25.11   42.45    26.70   2t-01   169.75



- 63 -
AN1E 5
Page 1 of 2
COMUTY WATER sMPP  AND SAR ITATION PROJECT
Oraanizational Structure
A. Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit
Natonall Prct
i    CWSP Unti
l          l
Ceounlieo    a          Deelopmen
*AddWotS Okroctwt
ICo_*wtyDGvobp I
C..~~~~~~~~~~~~mm.
r~~~~~~~~~~swo   I  .
I   obulke   |     r obbkt.gaa~~~~As I wf



- 64-                             _MEX S
Page 2 of 2
.8RILA
COMUITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
B. Steerinf Comaittees
I-National Steerine Committee
Members
o    Secretary of Housing and Construction (as Chairman)
o    Secretary to the Minister of State for Housing (as Co-Chairman)
o    Director of Human Settlement-Dept. of National Planning
o    Chief Secretaries of Sabaragamuwa, Uva and Southern Provinces
o    Six members from POs and CBOs
o    Director of CWSPU (as Secretary of the Committee, not as a member)
Representatives from other relevant institutions will be invited as
and when necessary.
Role and Functions
o    Policy review
o    Inter-Agency Coordination
o    Overall physical and financial monitoring of project implementation
o    Liaison with Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Policy and Planning
Implementation and other relevant Ministries.
o    Advice and guidance on any matters referred to by the project.
2-Distriet Coordinatina Cotmuttees
Members
o    Chief Secretary of the relevant Province (as Chairman),
o    Government Agent (as Co-Chairman)
o    Secretary, Provincial Ministry of Health
o    Secretary of the Provincial Ministry in charge of water supply (if it
is different from the above)
o    Six representatives from POs,CBOs Regional Office)
o    District Manager. CWSPU (as Secretary).
Role and Functions
o    Inter-Agency coordination at District level
o    Advise on distribution of resources among divisions
o    Physical and financial monitoring of t!he program implementation in the
Districts
o    Resolution of operational problems and disputes
o    Physical and  financial monitoring  of project  implementation  at
Distrih. level.



- 65 -
ANNEX 
Page 1 d 3
SRLM
GMINIY WAlE= 896Y AN 510fA1 PRO
BRU  am Loam Ai*i
Table 1                   DIsTRIc  OF
PROV1NCF- UVA
DG AAGA Divion   | Pradeshlyaabha             I Town
Badulla             Badulla
Bandarawella        Bandarawella
Ella                Ella                        Ella
Haldumulla          Haldumulla                  Haldumulla
Hallela             Hallela                     Haileba
Haputab             Hapulale                    Haputale
Kandaketlya         Kandaketlya
Mahlyangana         Mahlyangana                 Mahlyangana
Megahaklyula        Megahaklyula
Passa.a             Passara                     Pass( ra Lunugala
Rideemallyada       Rldeemallyada
SoanathcAa          Eranthota
Uva Paranagama      Uva Paranagama
Wellmada            Walimada                    Welimda Keppedpoa
TOTALS          14                    14                         9



- 66 -
Paro 2 d 3
QQMI-ltWSlEI      PLY AND SJltWlON 
PMLQEMg Loca
Tabb :           DlfIRICTOF   TA
PROVWCE SRIE_                                                               _
DGAIAGA Olvaln          Praideshlya Sabhia         Town
Akureua                 Akuresa                    Akuressa
Devtnuwa                Devlnuwara
Dlkwelbl                Dilwelta
Hakmana                 Hakmana                    Hakmla
Kamburupkllya           Kamburupkllya
Kotapola                KoptaofPbeddara            Deyay
Pitbedduaa
Mallmboda               Malimboda
Matara                  Matara
Multans                 Mulatlyana
PasgoduoBw ngamuwa      Pasgoda
Thhago                  Thihagoda
Wegama                  Weflgama
TOTALS               13                        12                            3



- 67 -
MNA 6
Page 3 of 3
COMMUITY WM  U  8uplrN SAFATK2 Pffik=
...~~7i'T F. _
LU  ,   -7r            i own
AWXaianpwm            AtaRUM
Ayagma                Ayagam
BaWngeds angd
Ehellyagoda           EhePagode
Embnip Wya            Emb6ly                   Erbl~
Imbulpe               imbu1
.    ~~Ka_a                    Ka_v
Kolonra               Koona
Kurnuwk               Kunrl                    Kunruwf
NMtgaia               Nmghia                   Nmtga
Pelmadula             Pelmduoa                 Pelmadul
Rapur                 RoWpu
Weug.po(a             Wdggpal
'TOTAS              13                     13                         6



- 68-
ANNEX1 7
Page 1 of 6
COMMIITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Review Process
1.        Projects will be assessed in a series of stages, each with its
own criteria (see Attachment). Rejection wvil not necessarily be outright,
but may take the form of a recommendation that the proposal be reworked or
added to, that the project be reformulated, or that additional development
work take place in the community. The project may then be resubmitted.
2.        The project proposals will be submitted for review by the
Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit (CWSPU) at District level. The
District level program staff will have the authority to review projects
through Stages 1, 2 and 3, and to approve projects under Rs 500,000,-.
Projects requiring review through Stages 4 and 5 will be referred to the
National CWSPU for review, as will projects over the District expenditure
limit. Appeals against the rejection of projects will also be heard at the
National level.
3.        Prioritisation of projects should only be necessary if the number
of acceptable project proposals exceeds implementing capacity, an un'likely
occurrence as project development by the Partuer Organization (PO) uses the
same staff. If it la necessary, it will take place at the National level.
Stage 1 - Technical Criteria
4.        The project proposal will have  to illustrate that certain
planning tasks have been carried out, that the project is technically sound,
and that the project is ready for implementation. These criteria must be
fully conformed to before the proposal will be considered further.
The following criteria will be used, and the following details requiredt
(a) water :upply improvements required
-    a substantial number of households are using unacceptable
sources
provision of an improved supply will serve a substantial
proportion of those presently using unacceptable sources
-    the proposed supply will not result in double coverage for
the community.
(b) CBO for project management selected and acceptable
-    name of Community-based organization (CBO) and details
-    if existing CBO, track record



- 69 -
ANNEX Z
Page 2 of 6
-    if new, details of registration status, constitution, office
bearers etc.
-    representativeness of CBO: proportion of all households and
of households using unacceptable sources involved in it
(c)  land necessary acquired
-    Divisional Government Agent's signatuz-e obtained to use
Crown Land, or,
-    notarily  executed  deed  for  land  acquisition  (gift  or
purchase)
(d)  water use conflicts resolved
-    signature of PO team members to say they have contacted and
consulted with all groups in the village
-    Divisional  Government  Agent's  signature  to  indicate
satisfaction that no outstanding conflicts remain, including
those with other villages
-    right of servitude of source and/or permanent easement for
passage of pipes made on a notarily executed deed where
private land involved
(e) project technically sound
-    design technically feasible and complies with established
technical standards and technology selection criteria (see
Annex 12)
-    bills of quantities complete and costing realistic (compared
to official rates)
-    signature of engineer or technical officer who has prepared
the pre-engineering design
-    map of scheme layout also showing all houses and any land
subject to the deeds mentioned above
(f)  project proposal form complete
-    all necessary information provided
-    all parts of the form complete
-    community signatures
-    team members' signatures
-    confirmation of completeness from District CWSPU if proposal
is to be referred to National CWSPU
5.        If the proposal is found not to comply with any of these
criteria, it will be returned to the PO for revision and resubmission.
Stage 2 - 8ustainabilitv Criteria
6.        The potential of the coiuamnity to operate and maintain the
facilities over the long term is a vital requirement for sustainable
projects. Projects which are too complex, expensive or demanding given the



- 70 -
ANNX 7
Page 3 of 6
capacity of the community will fail. The potential for community O&M will
thus be determined by the level of organization in a community and
willingness to pay a proportion of costs in a combination of cash and in-
kind contributions.
7.        If it is found that the project does not comply with the
sustainability criteria, the proposal will be returned to the P0 with a
recommendation that further project development take place in the community.
Stane 3 - Cost Analysis
8.        It must be clear that individual water schemes provide adequate
economic benefits, and are designed in a cost effective way. POe will be
given clear guidelines regarding optimal technology choice and service
levels (including type of technology chosen, distance to improved source,
number of sources, number of households per source, etc by region.
Proposals will be assessed to ensure they conform to the guidelines.
9.        The initial indicator for conformity will be the scheme cost per
household.  This will be calculated based on the scheme cost after the
communlity contribution has been subtracted, that is, the cost to the program
on a per household basis. This will reflect the fact that, in communities
with a willingness to pay a higher percentage of the total scheme cost, a
higher level of service will be possible. The acceptable cost per household
will vary according to type of technology. These costs will be regularly
updated by the CWSPU.   Estimates of current costs are included in the
Priority Investment Plan Reports.
10.       If the project proposal as submitted does not conform to this
criterion, the proposal will be returned to the P0 with a recommendation
that the project be revised to bring the cost per household in line with the
program requirements. The community will thus have two choices: either to
redesign the scheme to a lower level of service (fewer wells or standpipes),
or to increase their cash or in-kind contributions.
11.       Projects rejected on the basis of the above criteria may be
further investigated by the National CWSPU as follows:
Staxe 4 - Cost Benefit Analysis
12.       In the case that the scheme cannot be designed to fit into these
cost effectiveness guidelines (for instance the case in which an expensive
single tubewell is required to serve a small community), or the community
cannot afford to increase their ash contribution or has little opportunity
to increase their in-kind contribution (again in the case of tubowells,
which do not require the types of materials or unskilled labor which
villages have to offer), the PO proposing the schome would be requested to
gather additional data on water collection in order to assess the time-saved
benefits for the community.   If it can be shown that despite high per



- 71 -
AUL 7
Page 4 of 6
household cost, the time saved benefits result in an acceptable internal
rate of return, the project will be deemed to have complied with this
criterion.
Stage 5 - Extreme Need Appeal
13.       In case a scheme does not conform to the cost or cost benefit
analysis criteria, the P0 will have the option of submitting the scheme as
a special case, and arguing that it be funded on the basis of acute need.
A proposal will only be assessed on this basis if it cannot be approved
using the other criteria. A very small number of schembs is expected to
fall within this category, and a quota will be established to ensure that
this approval route is not misused. It is proposed that this quota be 2X
of funds in a given year. Projects should be funded on the basis of need
for the following reasonst
(a)  emphasis on economic benefits quantified through time savings
does not account for the often substantial non-quantifiable
benefits;
(b) villages most likely to be excluded on the basis of cost
effectiveness are poor dry zone villages, where water sources are
close by, but highly contaminated and unreliable and villages
have very little in the way of resources
(c) heavy involvement of non-governmental organizations (NCO) in the
program leaves little additional capacity for these organizations
to respond to the needs of poor, under-privileged villages on a
philanthropic basis, would is their usual role.   Leaving no
provision in the project review process for appeal on the basis
of need would be unsatisfactory in the eyes of the NGOs, and may
obstruct their participation in the program.
14.       Assessment criteria are as follows:
Ouality of existina water sunylies. Quality will be assessed by
examining the potential for bacteriological contamination of existing
sources. This is largely determined by type of source-- rivers, streams and
unprotected wells being the most prone to contamination.   It is not
recommended that bacteriological testing be routinely used to determine
water quality.
Quantity 2rovided by existina water sunnlies.  Villages relying
on sources which provide unacceptable quantities of water (less than 10 lcd)
will be considered to be In need.
Reliability of existint water suinlies.  Reliability will be
determined according to whether sources provide year-round coverage or dry
up during certain times of the year, and whether there are frequent
interruptions in service of the existing scheme.



- 72 -
AENEX 7
Page 5 of 6
Community pavertE. Poor water supply and sanitation are elements
in the vicious circle of poverty, reinforcing the effects of malnutrition
and disease. Improvements In this sphere are necessary but not sufficient
conditions to break the cycle, which is the ultimate objective of all
development programs. Poverty in itself ie, therefore, a viable factor for
justifying this type of intervention, particularly when carried out in the
proposed participatory manner, with spin-off benefits in terms of community
empowerment.  The limited perspective offered by quantitative economic
project assessment is insufficient to take account of these factors. Due
weight should therefore be given to poverty indicators, such as:
-    number of Janasaviya qualified families
-    number of foodstamp holder.
-    proportion of villagers dependent on subsistence agriculture
-    proportion of landless families
Staes I - Priority AllocatLo
15.       Projects will be assessed, approved and Implemented on a strictly
first come first served basis while implementation capacity allows. If more
project proposals are received than the planned annual funding allows, but
capacity exists among the POs, supplementary estimates will be prepared and
funds released. In the case that more project proposals are received In a
given period than can be implemented due to limitations In capacity of POo,
projects will be prioritised on the basis of need, as Indicated by
percentage coverage (percentage of households with access to acceptable
sources under existing schemes).
Aueal Process
16.       In the case that a community or P0 feols that a project proposal
has been unfairly rejected, the agency will have the right to appeal to the
National CWSPU for review.
Attachment:
Project Review Process



- 73 -
Page 6 of 6
SRI LANKA                              ATAc
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Review Process
1'       1              ~~~~0
2                                               Uh=  L No 
n
9g                           0
NOU
o4           Ye s                 [
Shms A                    
m.N.A                          - Yes                  o
El
N.~~
El
El



- 74 -
ANN= a
SRI LANKA                    Page 1 of I
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Communfty Level Proltet vl.
0
0
0
0
0
pftG
0"T



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 7
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION! PROJECT
Potential Partner Organizations
1.        During preparation of the District Development Plans, and again during
the preparation of this project, a number of agencies were identified as being
potential Partner Organizations for implementing the project. When an assessment
was made of these institutions their past projects were reviewed, as were their
institutional and staffing structures.   An assessment was made of what
institutional strengthening, additional staffing, logistical support and training
needs they would require over the project period to be able to undertake
effective implementation of the project.  This has been provided for in the
program development and training components of the project.
2.        A brief description of potential POs follows.
Pradeshiva Sabhas
3.        Pradeshiya Sabhas (PS) are elected local bodies at the level of the
Assistant Divisional Government Agent. They were created under the Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act No 15 of 1987, with "a view to providing greater opportunities for
the people to participate effectively in the decision-making process relating
to administrative and development activities at the local level." Elections for
PS were held in May 1991 when members were elected by popular vote for a period
of four years.
4.        The  PS  have  been  given  autonomy  in  financial  planning  and
implementation.   Thus, financial planning is determined on annual budgets
prepared by each PS.  The budgeted expenditure for a year is based on the
forecast annual revenue of the PS which is derived from two sources. The first
source is from acreage taxes, trade licenses, bicycle licenses, gun licenses,
rent and rates (mainly for developed areas), water tax (metered and fixed rates),
etc.   The second source is grants from Provincial Councils for recurrent
oxpenditure, special projects and the decentralized budget.   Individual PS
revenues in the three Districts vary from about SLRs 120,000 to over SLRs 5
million per year. Most of the PS have annual revenues of less than SLRs I
million. Annual capital expenditure for PS have been a few hundred thousand
rupees, with an upper limit of SLRs 250,000 for any one project.
5.        Most water projects have been built by the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board (NWSDB), non-governmental organizations and donors, and handed
over to the PS for maintenance. PS usually have one or more Grade III Technical
Officers and may have plumbing assistants. Additional connections to any piped
water schemes are handled by these staff. Most of the water schemes maintained
by the PS are subsidized by other sources of revenue because there is political
pressure at the local level to have these schemes kept functioning, without any
consideration for their financial viability.



-76 -
ANNx 9
Page 2 of 7
6.        The PS also undertake construction of water projects with technical
assistance from the NWSDB, and maintain these water schemes.  These are most
often gravity-fed systems with public standposts, tubevells, dugwells and sha' low
wells. Requests for improved water supply are made by the community to the PS
through their representatives. Thereafter, the PS 7ill dispatch its technical
officers or get technical assistance from NWSDB, and carry out a feasibility
study and, if the cost is reported feasible, follow up with a cost estimation.
7.        As a general rule, PS have not been successful in organizing and
mobilizing the community to maintain water schemes. However, through other
village organizations, some construction work has been undertaken with commu,ity
participation, especially by contributing labor. In certain small towns, PS bill
consumers with house connections on a metered or fixed rate. The usual charge
for household connections is SLRo 10/- per month.
8.        The implementation capacity of the PS has been calculated based on the
number of technical officers available to carry out projects. Each PS has at
least one such officer, some may have as many as five.  Based on an average
scheme cost of approximately SLRs 180,000, the capacity in the first two years
is SLRs 3.8 million per year. Thereafter, the capacity increases in each year
as new Divisions are brought in, reaching a maximum in 1998 of SLRs 10.8 million.
9.        Financial information on PS for the years 1988-1990 are provided in
Annex 15. Some PS have not been able to produce any final accounts. Under the
IDA-funded Municipal Management Project (Credit No. 1697-CE), Government proposes
to provide technical assistance and training to the PS, initially to improve
their local government functions capability.
National Water Sunvlv and Drainate Board
10.       The NWSDB was created through the enactment of the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board Law, No. 2 of 1974. According to this law, the Board
has the duty to develop, provide, operate and control an efficient, coordinated
water supply, to distribute water for public, domestic or industrial purposes9
and to establish, develop, operate and control an efficient sewage system.  The
NWSDB has this responsibility only in its areas of authority, which are declared
as such through an Order of the Minister of Housing and Construction. These
areas were defined through Gazette notification in 1982 to be the entire island.
11.       The NWSDB's 1991 Corporate Plan recommended a new national strategy
for the water supply and sanitation sector. The Corporate Plan points out that
overall in Sri Lanka, satisfactory service levels are in the order of 222 for the
urban population, 29Z for the rural population, and 28Z overall, where
satisfactory services levels are defined as 24 hour per day service for piped
water, a functioning handpump providing water of acceptable quality, or an open
well with an apron, bucket and windlass. While the NWSDB has the responsibility
for disbursing approximately 90X   of the total national  sector  capital
expenditure, by virtue of the fact that it concentrates on piped supply schemes
(primarily in the urban sector) and to a lesser extent on handpumps, it serves



- 77 -
ANNx 9
Page 3 of 7
only  about 202 of the Sri Lankan population in terms of water supply,  and 8
negligible proportion in terms of sanitation facilities. The rural sector and
sanitation have not been one of its priorities.
12.       The new national sector strategy puts the emphasis on the rural
sector, including community management, the strengthening of local institutions,
and an integrated approach.  The new national strategy stresses the need to
stimulate consumer demand, accelerate community management concepts, and to meet
demand through shared help and the use of the private sector.
13.       NWSDB plans to expand the role of its decentralized  Community
Participation Unit so that it can serve as a catalyst for the increased
involvement of the community in the water supply project cycle. This relates not
only to rural areas, but clao to the community management of public taps in piped
schemes through the formation of user groups.  The target i2 to have fully
staffed Community Participation Units in NWSDB's five Regional Support Centers
(RSCs), and complete formation of user groups for public taps in Greater Colombo
ln 1992. Complete regional decentralization to RSCs through the granting of
enhanced financial authority is also planned to be achieved in 1992.
14.       The NWSDB has been the principal implementing agency for all three of
IDA-financed water supply and sanitation projects to date. These projects have
focused exclusively on the urban areas, with most of the investment going to the
Greater Colombo area. Major imDrovements have been. made in the past two to three
years in NWSDB's finances and operating efficiency.   Three recent tariff
increases (April 1990, and January 1991 and 1992) have enabled NWSDB to cover its
working expenses and e portion of its debt service. Commencing in 1993, NWSDB
is committed to covering, in addition to its working expenses, the greater of its
depreciation or debt service.
15.       NWSDB does not have technical capacity limitations concerning the
project. Its limitations are in its relative unfamiliarity with the community-
based approach adopted for the project. Its involvement in the project will
likely be in the small towns, implementing pumped schemes and doing contract work
for other Partner Organizations. To undertake program development activities,
it is expected that NWSDB would link up with other POs (e.g. Ministry of Health
for sanitation and hygiene education).
Sarvodava Shramadana Inc
16.       Sarvodaya began in 1958 and is now the largest non-governmental
organization (NGO) in Sri Lanka.   Its organizational philosophy is self-
development through spiritual and moral values.   It works through eelf-help
programs to relieve poverty in rural villages.  By the late 1960's Sarvodaya was
a people's development movement workin4 in about 1,000 villages, with almost all
resources collected locally. In the 1970's, it attracted foreign partners which
enabled it to expand its activities rapidly. Sarvodaya now works in about 6,800
villages (one third of the villages in the country). An independent national
organization Lanka JathikA Sarvodaya Shamadana Sangamaya (LJSSS) was formed in
1962, which the Government declared an approved charity in 1965.   This
organization was incorporated ky an Act of Parliament in 1972. It is now the



- 78 -
Page 4 of 7
principal organizational arm of the Sarvodaya movement. Sarvodaya also has other
organizations besides LJSSS. These include a women's forum, a welfare program
for the disabled and abandoned children, a prison rehabilitation program, a
national disaster program, Sarvodaya Legal Aid Services and Sarvodaya Trust Fund.
17.       Sarvodaya is headed by an executive council which is elected annually
by the general membership, and a Committee of Office Bearers. The President of
Sarvodaya Is responsible for overall guidance, while the Committee of Bearers
implemonts the policies and decisions of the Executive Council through an
Executive Director and staff.
18.       Sarvodaya works through a series of outreach programs, the main ones
beings (a) Poverty Eradication and Empowerment of the Poor; (b) Sarvodaya
Economic Enterprises Development Services; (c) Early Childhood Development
Program; (d) Sarvodjya Rural Technical Services; and (e) Relief, Rehabilitation,
Reconciliation, Reconstruction and Re-awakening.
19.       Sarvodaya has a proven village mobilization procedure.  This usually
starts through an invitation by a local leader. Sarvodaya field workers visit
the village and organize a village-level discussion About local needs. This is
usually followed by a "sharing of labor" movement curing which people donate
their labor and other resources to satisfy a communal need, e.g., access road,
community hall, etc. Once village groups become active they form a so called
Sarvodaya Shramadana Society.   Sarvodaya Rural Technical Services  (SRTS)
implements water supply and sanitation projects. SRTS has fleld offices in each
District and In-house technical design staff, masons and site supervisors.
20.       Although the implemented 1991 SRTS national workplan was for SLRs 11.0
million (SLRs 2.72 million for water supply and sanitation in the three project
Districts), SRTS originally proposed a workplan to donors to execute nearly
double ne number of projects, for SLRo 17.89 million (SLRs 4.085 million for
water supply and sanitation in the three Districts), using the same institutional
framework, and increasing its field staff at the mason/supervisor level only
slightly. The lack of donor funds was the reason this second, larger budget was
not implemented. Sarvodaya currently has five technical and senior supervisory
staff In the three Distriets, overseeing the work of nine supervisors.
Thrift and Credit Coo2eratLve Societies
21.       The original Thrift and Credit Cooperative Societies (TCr-S) were
formed In 1906. There are about 1,000 such societies in existence now. Until
1977, they operated as individual entities without coordination or much potential
for expansion. Following a reorganization in 1977, these societies have become
a strong financial Institution.   In 1978, several individual societies formed
the first District (Regalle) Union of TCCS. There are now 6,821 Societies in 28
District Unions, with a total membership of 675,000 persons.
22.       The Societies are required to be registered under the Cooperative
Societlee Law (No. 5 of 1972 and No. 37 of 1974). The major objective of these
soclities Is to promote the economic, social, and cultural needs of their mmbers
accorditg to cooperative principles and the promotion of thrift, mutual help and



- 79 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 7
self -reliance,  thereby creating a cooperative community.   Members must be
permanent residents of the area of operation of the society, over 18 years of
age, and of 'good' character. Mobilization of a village follows on approximately
the same lines as Sarvodaya, descry ad above.
23.       The current sector ezpenditure of TCCS is negligible as only a handful
of water projects have been carried out by the organization.   However, its
capacity for supporting community- =anaged projects is hlgh, and its success with
projacts has been proven. They do not lack the management expertise other NGO0
lack, and they work in a community-based manner with cost recovery and ongoing
sustainability inherent to its organization.   However, they have limited
technical expertise, and would have to contract out technical design work should
they become an Implementing Agency.
24.       Expenditures of the TCCS would be divided into two components: village
schemes and private schemes. Village schemes would be implemented in a way
similar to the other o-ganizations participating in the project, with TCCS also
acting as the CBO. Schemes would be carried out on a village-wide basis and
benefit all community members.  TCCS have indicated an interest in achieving a
higher level of cost recovery for village schemes than that planned under the
program, and hope to set up community revolvinS funds to be used for other
environmental and infrastructural improvements.
25.       TCCS would also on-land funds to individuals who wish to construct
private schemes. These funds could be used to build private wells, or to pay the
additional costs of a higher level of service. These loans would be made using
tho regular T'CS conditions and would be available only to TCCS members.
26.       TCCS assigns grades to its Societies based on their characteristics
and performance. A Grade 1 society is the most organized; it has a full-time
staff member, an outlet with a counter, and is open five days a week. A Grade
2 Society has a part-time or full-time staff member, an office and a history of
good performance, including a past due loan rate of less that 5Z. Both Grade 1
and 2 Societies have a long-term development plan, and a definite development
orientation and approach. These are the Societies TCCS feels would be interested
In the program.
PLAN International
27.       PLAN International an international NGO founded In England in 1937 to
assist children during the Spanish Civil War. It also worked for children in
Europe during World War II, and in the war-affected areas of Korea and Vietnam.
PLAN started working in developing countries in the 1960'.. It now works in 25
countries In Africa, Asia, South America and the Caribbean.  PLAN supported
400,000 foster children in 1988 and disbursed over US$100 million.
28.       The organization works through child sponsorships, whereby a donor in
a Western country (the U.S., Canada, Japan, Au3tralla and several countries in
Europe) becomes a foster parent and contributes through PLAN to a particular



- 80 -
Page 6 of 7
child, the child's family and the community in which the child lives. PLAN aims
to carry out integrated programs which build self-reliance and economic
independence.
29.       PLAN has a regional office in India; it has been working in Sri Lanka
since 1981. The program in Badulla was set up in 1983, and a field office Vbw
established there in 1987. This office now has a Field Director and a staff or
120, iiscluding 72 field staff, five administrative staff, and 42 support sgaff.
There are six field supervisors, 56 field officers (Group Promoters) (of whom
eight are women) and five Health Promoters.
30.       PLAN works in five AGA Divisions in Badulla (Hali-ela, Ella, Badulla,
Soranatota and Meegahakiula). PLAN group promoters set up planning units in each
village which form and develop village associations. Based on the needs of the
village, as identified by the village itself and the PLAN Group Promoter,
asaociations such as a Farmer's Society or Income Generating Society are formed.
If a need for water supply and sanitation improvements is identified, PLAN has
two technical officers based in Badulla who are responsible for design,
surveying, and making up bills of quantities.
31.       PLAN had expenditure of SLRs  1.1 million on water  supply  and
sanitation in 1990/91. It carried out 49 projects including the construction of
tanks,  wells  and  gravity  schemes  for  1,566  beneficiaries.    Community
contributions were at least 101 of project costs and were often higher, sometimes
exceeding PLAN's contribution. The allocation for water supply and sanitation
in 1991/92 is SLRs 2 million.
Small Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
32.       A number of small NGOs are already working in the three Districts and
have expressed interest in participating in the program. Although all these
agencies will require substantial institutional strengthening and have small
L.plementation capacities, it is considered that their inclusion will provide
diversity, and allow more communities to be reached. The strengthening of these
organizations will benefit the non-governmental sector in Sri Lanka. A brief
description of five such NGOs follows:
(a)  Water SUtylV and Sanitation Decade Service.   The Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade Service has carried out a pilot project in a small
dry zone village called Punchiwilaththawa which was intended to be a
model for NGOs carrying out water projects. This project was funded
by UNDP and involved the building of four new wells and the
rehabilitation of two existing ones.  Health volunteers were also
trained, following which 60 latrines were provided, with funding from
South Asia Partnership.   At the end of this project, funding was
obtained for 12 additional villages in the immediate area, and the
project continued as the Lower Deduru Rural Development Project, with
Sri Lanka Canada Development Fund funding of SLRs 7 million.



- 81 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 7
(b) Lanka Mahila Samithi (LMS). LMS has only limited experience in water
supply and sanitation.   In sanitation, LMS implemented a project
funded by Water Aid and Sanitation (London) in the Districts of Matale
and Moneragala. In the years 1987/88, 150 latrines were constructed
in Matale while 80 were built in Moneragala. At the community level,
there are active LMS branches which carry out community mobilization
and hygiene education.
(c)  Dharmaviiava Foundation  (DVF).  DVF forms temple-based societies at
village Buddhist temples. The activities of the societies are in four
major areas (education, economics, health and spirituality/ethics) and
are based on a Buddhist concept of development. Leadership for the
DVT societies c-zmes from the priest or monk at the local temple, who
is always the President of the Society. There are 231 DVF societies
in 21 Districts, including Badulla (11), Ratnapura (5) and Matara
(21). The societies act independently, with the Foundation providing
financial and technical assistance for projects. Though the major
activity has a religious orientation, it also carries out development
projects.
Trained health volunteers conduct clinics on preventive health care
and for early detection of correctable defects. DVF has also funded
and implemented six small drinking water projects (one tubewell and
five dug wells).
The organization has several projects identified in communities in
which it is already working (primarily in Badulla and Matara), which
total about SLRs 11 million.
(d) Girl Guides Association (GGA). The GGA of Sri Lanka was established
in 1917, and there are presently 22,000 Girl Guides in Sri Lanka. The
organization carries out many community development activities,
including the establishment of pre-schools, training in health
education and building of water supply and sanitation facilities.
The GGA has built wells in Kalutara and Mahawela. Five of these wells
were built under a UNICEF-sponsored program which also includes the
construction of 125 latrines. In Mahawela, five wells have been built
in collaboration with the NGO Decade Service, using Water Aid funding.
One well has been built as part of an income generation project funded
by the Canadian International Development Agency.



- 82 -
Table 1 of 1
SRILA
COMMUITY WCAT  SUPPLY ANM SANITTIONg PROJECT
IMulemerltation Plan and Schedule
PROJECT PHASES
Phase                           TYear
Phase_                     1994        1996      1996     1997      1996
Pro-oroject                     I
initial Deeoment Phase
Consolidation
PROJECT ACTIVMES
Actity                                                           Yew
1992  1  1993      1 1994  1  1995   1 996       1997     19968
Oporationalis. CWSPU
Recruit CWSPU stalf n
Train CWSPU staff           _______                    :.__;_r
Ebtablisdir"s procedures        T_       _
Establiihrfine MIS                    m                                      __|____-
Implementing  agency  training  _,___._.,.r..-;:.:.____'',S__________
Pilot implementatin   r_                          I 
Prepareirevie, manuals      ___________T_
Evaluation & planning      I                               - .        -
Prepare training programme 
Publicity and orientatUon -                                    . .                     -
Planningmethodologyrevision IT|__
Programme
-   ProgrammeimoiementatPon    de-eo-m-n
Applied IRSyeaeCh
Appiid ressecarenll _    
Project PreParatron 
Appledt uose aric|h_
Second project                                                       _1
-wonitoring & [Evaluation
PCR. final evaluation            _                                      _   
*ThiS activity incfudes:- Programme olanning
- Project dovloDomenr
- Hygiene education
- COO tainneg
- Project implementation
- Follow-uo suopoon



ANNEX I11
-83 -                         Page 1 of 4
COMNUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Scheme Selection Criteria
A. Water Schemes
1.        Technical Viability
(a)  Needs assessmentt
-    description  of  quality,  quantity,  reliability  of  existing
sources.
-    number of householls using unaccertable sources.
-    number of beneficiary households (to be included in proposed
scheme) and demonstration that improved sources will benefit a
majority of households using unacceptable sources.
(Scheme proposa.as would include a plan, to scale, of the community and
scheme layout showing all houses, current water sources used by households,
land acquired, proposed vell placement, pipe locations, etc.)
(b)  Dhslan:
-    details of yield of water source (stream flow records, well water
levels, for 12 months, or through at least one dry period).
-    yield of more than 451pcd, plus 50S to allow for leakage and
wastage and future population increase.
-    assessment  of  future  reliability  of  source,   including
identification of any adverse environmental impacts which may
threaten source (e.g. deforestation in catchment area, threat of
industrial effluent), and proposed mitigation measures.
-    technical feasibility and compliance with established technical
standards and technology selection criteria.
-    bills of quantities complete and costing realistic (compared to
official District rates)
-    signature of technical officer who has prepared the design
2.        Environmental Sustainabilitv
-    assessment of environmantal impact of increased water supply and
inclusion of appropriate mitigation measures, e.g., adequate
provision for oullage and drainage near standposts, yard taps or
handpumps.
3.        Resource Ava&labili.t
(a)  Land Acquired
-    Assistant Government Agent's signature to use Crown Land.
-    notarially - tecuted deed for land acquisition (gift or purchase).
(b)  WAter Use Conflicts Resolved
-    signature by Partner Organization (PO) team that it has contacted
and consulted with all groups in the village tnd reviewed
possible conflict among groups or with neighboring villages.



ANNEX 11
- 84-                            Page 2 of 4
-   Assistant  Government  Agent's  signature  that  there  are  no
outstanding conflicts, including no conflicts with neighboring
villages.
-    right of servitude of source and/or permanent easement for
passage of pipes notarially executed on deed in case of private
land.
4.        Communitv aunoWrt and iMlementation capacitv
(a)  Communitv-Based Organization Status
-    Name of CBO, details of registration status, list of members,
constitution, office bearers, Bank account balance.
-    if existing CBO, past activities.
-    representativeness of CBO: proportion of all village households
and of all households with unacceptable sources represented.
(b)  Community Organizationi
-    number and names of all existing CBOs in village.
-    summary of community projects carried out, and how they Were
organized, including any projects undertaken during the project
development phase of the CWSSP.
(c) Willingness to Pav
-    proportion of costs which community is committed to contribute
in kind and in cash.
-   Minimum of 202 of total direct costs would be required except in
cases of tubowells. Tubewells offer very limited opportunities
for in-kind contribution, and minimum contributions would be 102,
of which most would be in cash.
-    Minimum cash contribution of 1Z (if total contribution were 402
or more of direct costs) rising to 10% (if total contribution
were 102), according to the following schedule:
Total Contribution(%)         Cash(S1          In kind(2)
40X+                     1                39+
37 to c40                  2                35-38
33 to <37                  3                30-34
30 to <33                  4                26-29
27 to <30                  5                22-25
23 to <27                  6                17-21
20 to <23                  7                13-16
17 to <20                  8                11-12
11 to <17                  9                 1-6
102                     10                 0
-    evidence of CBO  ommitment to pay incremental cost of service
levels higher than program standards.
-    payment mechanism, including timing of contributions, details of
funds already collected and deposited in CBO bank eccouct.



- 85-                               ANNEX1l
Page 3 of 4
(d) Mdequacv of Partner Organization
-    list of technical and  supervisory  staff  to  Implement and
supervise the works, and assessment as to their adequacy or need
to supplement them.
5.        Economic Viability
(a) Maximum Scheme Cost ner household
Project cost per beneficiary household (i.e., direct cost, excluding
overheads, after deduction of community contribution), of
Scheme TM_e                Beneficiary HH/facilitv       Cost/HH
Protected Wells (PW)       8  HI/well                    Rs. 2,300
PW with Handpump           10  BI/well                   Rs. 5,100
Handpump Tubewells         20 HE/well                    Rs. 4,600
Gravity Schemes            42 HH                         Rs. 4,900
Pumped Schemes             NA                            Rs. TBD
NB: The above figures are preliminary and taken from the Priority
Investment Plans; they are subject to change with changes in
estimates of costs, and review of optimal design standards during
the Annual Review of the project activities.
(b) Rate of Return
If the scheme involves higher per household cost than the agreed level,
either the design will need to be revised to achieve cost standards, or it
will need to be demonstrated that economic benefits in terms of time
savings exceed full scheme cost (i.e., direct costs and overheads for
design and supervision using a lOZ discount rate).
Notes The preparation of scale plans for each village, when combined with
improved data on the relationship between time used and distance to water
source, will facilitate benefit estimation.
6.        SustaLnabilitv
-    for schemes involving water tariffs (pumped schemes, whether
operated by CBO or NWSDB on behalf of CBO), presentation of cash
flows, tariff schedules required.  If a Pradeshiya Sabha Is
proposed to manage project, record of its performance in
collecting revenues needs to be presented and assessed.
-    commitstent to pay charges to cover estimated operation and
maintenance costo of system and capital cost in case of pumped
schemes.
-    arrangements for future operation and maintenance, including
technical aspects and system for raising and managing funds for
operation and maintenance.
-    proposed inputs for the Partner Organization for assistance to
CBO in initial period of operation of water scheme, operation of
sanitation revolving fund, and health and sanitation inputs.



- 86 -                           Page 4 of 4
B. Health and Sanitation Comuonents
7.        Latrlne Schemes
-    procedure for mnagement of revolving fund (account, signatories)
-    criteria for selection of beneficiaries  (in terms of need,
willingness to repay)
-    technical design criteria (including location of latrine relative
to water sources)
-    loan amount (up to SLRs. 2,400)
-    procedure for disbursement of loans against progress of works
-    repayment terms to the revolving fund.
8.        Hygiene and Sanitation Education
-    description of the hygiene and sanitation programs operating In the
village, including coverage, agencies responsible, activities to date,
and proposed program. during implementation and initial maintenance
period.
If satisfactory hygiene education programs are not under way or
planned, these will need to be arranged with the P0 or other agency before
project execution to maximize the probability of securing health benefits through
education and behavioral change in parallel with the project investments.



- 87 -
13    2
Page I of 3
SRI AA
Commun4tv Water SUPD1 and Sanitation Project
Design Criteria
Introduction
1.        The project incorporates an interactive planning procedure aimed at
serving approximately 2,700 individual communities over the five year
implementation period. The approach adopted for design of future facilities is
to prepare design modules which can be combined as required for individual water
schemes. The 19 modules prepared for the project are based on proven designs of
agencies such as the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) and of non-
govornmental organizations such as Sarvodaya and a list of the modules is
appended as an Attachment.
2.        Design criteria adopted are those of NWSDB, which also will be a
referral agency available to the Community Water and Sanitatic Unit when it is
assessing the technical adequacy of schemes put forward by Implementing Agencies
and community-based organizations. The criteria presented below do not represent
a full listing of the NWSDB criteria, but serve as an indication of the criteria
applied during project preparation. Design criteria will be fully documented by
the CWSPU during the pre-implementation phase of the project.
3.        No modules were prepared for the sanitation facilities as the well-
established, but diverse latrine designs now in use need no further improvement
at this time. In any case, it would be difficult to reproduce the numerous,
acceptable designs by standard drawings, given the implementation methodology to
be employed in the project.
Desisn Criteria for Villate Piled Water Schemes
4.        Population Forecast.   Current population would be determined from
field surveys and the population growth factor would be derived from the current
average annual population growth rate (now 1.72)  for Sri Lanka.   Design
population would be found by applying the growth factor to the current population
over a 15 year period.
S.        Water Demand.  Total water demand for the community would be the sum
of the per capita demand plus special needs demand (e.g., schools, temples,
community centers, dispensaries, etc.), projected for the 15 year design period.
Per capita demands to be applied are 45 lcd for standposts and 140 lcd for
individual connections. An allowance of 50S would be added to projected demand
to account for wastage and leakage.
6.        Pipe Sizing and Svstem Pressures.  It is the practice in Sri Lanka to
use PVC pipe for almost all gravity and pumping schemes and this has been adopted
for this project.   The project schemes would utilize PVC pipes of strength
standard equivalent to ISO Type 1000, because of its cost-effectiveness, taking



- 88 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
breakage into consideration. Pipe diameters would be determined on the basis of
friction head loss calculations, to ensure delivery of projected demands
throughout the design period.  Designs would provide for allowable residual
operating pressures of 3 meters minimum and 50 meters maximum. In cases where
pressures would exceed 50 meters, break pressure tanks would be employed to
ensure operating characteristics within the acceptable range. A minimum pipe
diameter of 50 mm has been adopted for outlet pipes from spring sources.
7.        Peak Factors.   For schemes serving less than 20,u00 persons, the
average daily demand is used when designing headworks and transmission mains.
For the larger systems a peaking factor of 1.25 times average demand is applied.
For distribution systems serving up to 20,000 persons, a peaking factor of 2.5
times average day demand is applied, until field studies indicate adjustment of
the factor is necessary. For larger systems, a peaking factor of 2.0 is applied.
The above factors are applied where continuous 24 hour per day supply is to be
available.   Where supply must be intermittent, higher peaking factors are
applied.
8.        Storage Requirements. To economize on capacity of distribution system
storage, only equalizing storage would be considered.   On larger systems,
eufficient land is obtained at the outset to allow for future needs. As the
amount of equalizing storage would vary with individual system requirements the
design is based on an analysis of the demand variations throughout the day.
Attachment:
List of Design Module Drawings



- 89 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
Attachment
SRI LANKA
COMNUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
List of DesiQn Module Drawinas1
Drawing No.                     Title
COW/G/01    Spring Intake
COW/G/02    Dam Intake
COW/G/03    Dug Well Covered 4m dia. for Pump Intake
COW/G/05    Dug Well - 2m dia.
COW/G/04    Dug Well Covered 2m DIA. for Hand Pumps
COW/G1OS    Silt Box - 300 Litres
COW/G/07    Dug Well with Apron 1.5m. DIA.
COW/G/06    Dug Well with Shallow Well Hand Pump
COW/G/09    Silt Box 2m3
COW/I/10    Pump House - 2.25m2
COW/G/12    Break Pressure Tank  8 Valve Chamber
COW/I/13    Storage Tank - 3m3
COW/G/14    Ground Storage Tanks
COW/G/15    Valve Chambers
COW/G/16    Cistern Tank - 1.75m3
COW/G/17    Stand Posts
COW/G/18    Elevated Tank  05m3(brick/mortar)
COW/G/19    Elevated Tank - (reinforced concrete)
1Drawings are included in Vol. V "Preliminary Engineering Designs - Part l:
Nodule Designs and Costing,," Final Report on Priority Investment Plans for
Hatara, Ratnapura and Badulla Districts, Cowater International Inc., November,
1991.



- 90 -                           ~~~~~ANNEX  13
90 -                                    Page 1 of I-
C;tg tv Mater Sdzl rnd Santation PrElet
Disbursent "*hedulo
.....................
.................................................................................
IDA                                                  ciinlatfvo
Fiscal     Qarter Ending           Dirbursemnt         Dfaburmant Abmlat Quarter
veap                               (Vs$ Mlifn)         CUM  Nfilion)   X
.................................................................................
1993     Narch 3199I                       1.9                1.9         8      I
Jurw 30, 199                      0.5                2.4        10     2
1994     Saptber 30, 1993                  0.2                2.7        11     3
Decler 31, 1993                   0.2                2.9        12     4
March 31, 194                     0.5                3.4        14     5
Jww 30, 1994                      0.7                4.1        17     6
1995     Septeaber 30, 1994                0.7                4.9        20     7
Dsceaer 31, 1994                  0.7                5.6        23     6
Marchl 1. 1995                    1.0                6.6        27     9
Juw 30, 1995                      1.0                7.5       31    10
1996     Septear 30. 1995                  1.0                8.5        35    11
December 31, 1995                 1.2                9.7       40    12
March 31. 1996                    1.2               10.9        45    13
Jurw  30. 1996                    1.5               12.4       51    14
1997     September 30, 1996                1.5               13.8        S7    15
DeceoWr 31, 1996                  1.5               15.3        63    16
March 31, 1997                    1.5               16.6       69    1T
Jurw 30, 1997                     1.5               18.2       75    18
1996      epteber 30, 1997                 1.5               19.7        81    19
Decemr 31, 1997                   1.5               21.1       87    20
March 31, 1996                    1.5               22.6        93    21
Juro 30, 1998                     1.2               23.8       98    22
1999       eptebr 30, 1996                 0.2               24.0        99    23
Deceaer 31, 1996                  0.2               24.3       100    24
.................................................................................



:OKNMTNZ  VAfTR JkID SUANIATION PBOICi
_P_lROI   MONITORING INDICATORS
:''..J  t jCie~m                X       uu 'z~'           ?
(as) CO_mlty biiztimi to mist             * go. of villags cticity ad ir*fleritin                                        I of slicont ai   1  A  I"
Oa9/cnlmities in delopifa                 * Tout  s   vilIaofswtt cwere         c   ips                                a    a ad estebtaILd
their mter sply ard saitatlen              * Totat So. of vilow11r               * biaenamn pr.sins                     * 0of atffe piopuas qaprovuL
Psagme.                                    participated                          *  .oef man leadwr tratm               *  'A.o     plain pragmaid 0 ad
* No. of memo prticipated             * Uo.of I_ I IFip mims buid    /      qiuwJriectad.
* so. of I"  _uese                    * lo.ef trainia-    lo ua Iuim             f iilemutaiac t
* lo. of cmM  ustblidid/aud           held.                                  prpr  aId K Xr -W I
* No.of lAs ad Wab traismaL           *    of IIA ad Ca  rgisteed ad
* Siddellm  pLo                       dro-V.
* I if villamw  s  partlcIpatef.
_b_            __M M_                 _                                               ___       _    __Pr                m m
To prIdejizrow. arada/s afd             g lo. of       la ide mtifleL       * Fu                                   * S of VillagIs  p ders adms
eaWutV afe driafia  aid potal             a le. of d_ums In hich omarlty        * Irainfg miterila                     Iltr  id  aid *q-uat 
atr for villags ad  mll ut ,.             contribution io mb                    * tadmmlogWt the Job Training            Zof Sab m   In midcb acti
* ao.of vis  c                        0     Trailea                           a  cariad o  an tim an
(bi) Pup   lls                             * mIo.leada   pepfsd                  *oisiu of e*A                          pd iu_L
1 .01e pW  mall lautalled                                                    h *Irmas of mter oar ad
IbtI DM mlle                               * No.0f pop mll  In "eaeiluf.                                                thir chracteristlcs.
WM*.  e     raer   to                                                        * lncrma1 of mr utly In the
(U) _rsvty acams                                                    hvila   for _i.ias ppes_s1.
* I rie *1 fter  mptian
06) laid pp mills                                                                                                       far esaw papeam: Mas ~Iakfg
aid eudtatien etc.
a svmme of mte_ fer
~adl*fruits aid etha
* I sreasoftineud kahrof
yells fag Iedhe mawe frm
mit to _im.
*  U. ovisi_tem hefra i a
aft    empltiu  of tod  ball.
.o   mb   Ma far atarlagw. te
* l      _ba  mad fa pFifya  matw.
helig af.i
* 301 NM patictpatad
* S w VarW" *qp-at*ai
ado vin qrtem.



19w1~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE 14l 
i~~~~~li



to me   phi a        _rne  of           * J. Sf pilelt* _ 1t lelty cil                                                   0 X of driep-utInreae U1B.
hiulmic livin  cemitlm                      * o1.                                                                             a t     trn  *  o of drep-oWim-eae villawg
thremg  training ad eolaw fr               * s. of      staf trained.              * Tralnln  of staff    rheatth Msers.
the vilatsm. URa. ma IAa* ad           in   * Ga. of vitl_g,   'I eola                                                        Increae s id  hip of W,.
admols.                                      eznreL                                  * hdlo vi at mterlat.                    Ville haalt. -   'mtws
* go. of VA, C    me voluateer                         ,* I cI  ./dvruS   In attudue at
stff ove d                              ^ iseciallat alvice.                    haIth offb ces clinics.
* Us. of  her sevice                                                            * Increaed Invol_mt In
WNlaetlu ced.                           * Eupigpt  d veifctec prIdcd.            prevtive heeithr  facilitles.
a ts etof "tf of tee                                                            * le_rovent In awrmnallI
rgmunatlone trnd.                      * s. of retsrce grems utilized.          qenitatl n, aInwa,   aulba"s
ao.* of oirlataitn   ati s held.                                                dlqeal. solid eate diapaslq.
* mo. of  a foand ad trained.                                                   heing.
*   - a a In hygene practices.
aIumeficlary chrrctwlatics
mlelfemle ONfl) ae, acaedc
A  Swil stats.*
* tm   In hui llgna d p    th  n
_______________________________ of inter frs. oaurc.
to t aw detliv o    d aTa*i                                      Tnipng intess                                           *: lncrimas  ft Inlet villta
effecHisuas of trainIwn                      0                                         r * trels    tralmd                   hIth  ,mi , heatth
1.   servl.e triinng"                   *                                       0 *ettolplmu p                              pecteS. vlunteers, health
It. In service trainIng                    tomaulty dpetguuent mrd              * Int-lIv training                       swalstora, perwates. OI
sa_Jsat staff                          * Weciallat                               _mirs.
*  *lssto toct officials               * heb  trainien plan                     * Uwfildm7 dmractrIastics: IW
*      stWal                            * Traerl/tt studiles                    (age, aecel mad ec*nmoc atdat
* No. of prs   trlined, staf                                                    * I of traied atff frnted
-  amsltaff 9mnh u.im0. _                                                         BSII"tivens  of training                      to
,________________________________  balteushitpe  .__________________________         _     *   o   of  _   trained    aod     pronted
t
0 



PWi t  hoinemnt   ant   iect                                                                                                     VW    ;__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __  
(ff.    -tz        Kt
f.l  to smuldh affetive              * Vmblhm                              * 0S fcr Zcl.s ad office               * Effectlews of m          hre swum
p1        I _ mt                   * Ofle apwi                           adl_t                                   *  ta ff *ttit end  rate
Implmation  ystm  ad                  a* b. of aft  *b                            o ecdE.  psim                     * hifty of blec .d aqi  sise
a*trom                                                                           * Ip.rtle.m    _                       * IWIsa . tin nipdedi to pec
* apeciallata'   1X                    Em; to prcss ad arv
f.l.2 IAes* cm's poject avl                                                                                       cuiimta
* Efffetiml_ of g0rdimtia, .bth
f.i3       l pre    e1ve a1tba a  I m.
f.CZ  Toipr-cedmtleuetu  f           * N, of ainter-sum PsIrdlnian           llteregu       natdin*                * Eeilawee WI qzctihd
rmalved  n  les, local             outl                                  a_md     t -Btblshed at reilal         outai* staff dcltmd
matrliem. PEs 10s,.                    a s. of ct Rdt  esrled                aid tiee  levels
* PolicIem    _-im    t vieift ei                                           *   gaiw/pUd taf of IA.
f.2.I 1A.   m'c project le velmint d
f.2.2 A       oreaM  leved                                                                                        * A I  I m to _sems, elf-
reli1and Iaid eeI e  Iner
f3  To bt lip  meating               * NamS s    hot                       * staff trainiag                               a        oll tn.
m S.1 sptmm, to sentor             * lmitr.Wz isNce  eUsbi*d              * belsdm sev
ad eiato project                      * Staff d*y  of sqsrvislm             a 1NS d     dem                        *  ceo    to P1M
Iplwntatlien ed hteoes   _           ftpart dat ad yalty atcf*        a Wur'bq*                              bd*.twu  spti  a
* bult Wmta                           a pecialmieta                          p        . 
f.3.1 iI. - preject level                                                     trom  ets iles
* *bnistrative prse                            a.
f3.2 am    - prIS lv                                                          bqt stag"                            a ifled ad *dim L
muAl-d two nWei
to. lebmlcst maltstm  ad shRe              a ladAS t_I rt Odal  CM)              * TM agrd                              * Effectlivness of tA proMid
* l   dt epr:ielt  ptes loeal,        * emidlmne, sitesrlae                  * -£ttitub of locia staff, IA.
litnteetiumi (SMim
* Offleo WPi=*                        * hlIty of s_tin
No. oft atalles ad _ot quled                                                 prvi*dltroini.r c_ubmtud
to es_  (- 5 stcoimes _ -F   mdi      & Ibebp troInie                        nwterlata.
a .S                                   * Mqilty of t_ies aRtOe   0d
* Spqclallt gauvce
*                       tofectls.m tu   t 131
* Trcr  tuiles                         speratim. rellcabllty                         P
* aspect stuiN                         * eb teristlcs of _tb
benafcerwie  (NI) a"e. secial
* Prtlcpet  prIes                      NW  -    , s t
* be em tlqehti
17. Ji. .3  .   .,,., 



- 95 -
Page 1 of 3
CONMUNT  WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Su,rvision Plan
Supervi4 ion Innut
The *taff input indicated in the table below 18 in addition to regular
supervision at headquarters for procurement review, correspondence, and review
of reports, which ie estimated at 16 staff-weeks during the first and second
project year. and about 11 staff-weeks thereafter.
Approx.             Activity                 Skill Needs               Staff
Dates                                                                  Weeks
February     - Expedite start-up          - Sanitary Engineer            10
1993         - Review consultant          - Community Participation
selection process            Specialist
- Update Action Plan         - Financial Analyst
agreed during negotia-    - Information System
tions                        Specialist
- Operational Analyst
June         - Review Institutional       - Sanitary Engineer            10
1993           setting                    - Comunity Participation
- Review procurement           Specialist
progress                   - Financial Analyst
- Agree pre-investment       - Information System
proposals                    Specialist
- Review status of revol-   - Operational Analyst
ving funds
- Inspect works
February     - Annual review of Pro-      - Sanitary Rzg;!ner            10
1994           ject implementation        - Coraunity Participation
- Agree on action plan         Specialist
following year             - Financial Analyst
- Information System
Specialist
- Operational Analyst



-96-                                hNNU1
Page 2 of 3
Approx.             Activity                  Skill Needs              Staff
Dates                                                                  Weeks
June         - Insp'ct progress and        - Sanitary Engineer            8
1994           quality of civil works    - Community Participation
- Review private sector        Specialist
response                   - Financial Analyst
- Status community           - Operational Analyst
Involvement
February     - k  4al review of Pro-       - Sanitary Engineer            6
1995           ject implementation         - Community Participation
- Agree on action plan         Specialist
following year             - Financial Analyst
June         - Training progress           - Sanitary Engineer             4
1995         - Evaluate communities        - Community Participation
ownership                    Specialist
- Review private sector
participation
- Training Program
lebruary     - Annugl review of Pro-       - Sanitary Engineer            6
1996           ject implementation         - Community-Participa'ion
- Agree on action plan         Specialist
following year             - Financial Analyst
June         - Discuss scope and timing  - Sanitary Engineer              3
1996           for second project          - Community Participation
- Review status of project    Specialist
implementation
- Training Program



-97? -9
Page 3 of 3
Approx.             Activity                  Skill Needs              Staff
Dates                                                                  Weeks
February     - Annual review of Pro-       - Sanitary Engineer            6
1997           ject implementation         - Community Participation
- Agree on action plan         Specialist
following year             - Financial Analyst
June         - Status Ireparation          - Sanitary Engineer            2
1997           follow-up project
- Compliance with plan of
action
- Review proposal for
institutional setting
February     - Annual review of Pro-       - Sanitary Engineer            6
1998           ject implementation         - Community Participation
- Agree on action plan         Specialist
following year             - Financial Analyst
June         - Inspect progress quality  - Sanitary Engineer              2
1998           of civil works
- Asses Institutional
arrangements
- Discuss scope and time
of the follow-up project



SRILANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROVINCIAL AND LOCAL ADMINISTRATION
Tabble 4: DISTRICT OF 8ADULLA
TOTAL  CAPITAL ECURRENT          TOTAL  CAPITAL ECURRENT          TOTAL  CAPI'AL ECURRENT
RECEIPTS EXPEND. PENDITURES   RECEIPTS EXPEND. PENDfTURES   RECEIPTS EXPEND. PENDITURES
1988     1988     1988           1989     1989      1989          1990     1990      1990   % CHANGE 1
PRADESHIYA SASHA                                                                                                   8890
BaduRa
Bandaraweua            189      0.00     (41)            681      386    (195)            303      512      209       60
Haklumulla            1805              (1805)           970              (970)          2225      153   (2072)       23
HaHa
Hapua                  365      207      (78)           525       794      269            639     1458      819       75
Kandaketla
Mahlyangana            577        8      (569)         3869         8    (3861)          1398             (1398)     149
Megabaklytla 
Passara
Rldeemalyada
Sornaoa
Uva Paranagama                                          594       320    (274)           712      1092      380        0
Welimade              4000      200   (3800)           4712      1002   (3710)           6454     4619    (834)       36
Note 1. Recets projected to gow at 8% per year.
Source: Urban Programme Unit, MPPI and mission esUmates



SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROVINCIAL AND LOCAL ADMINISTRATON
Table 5:   DISTRICTOF MATARA
TOTAL  CAPITAL ECURREMT          TOTAL  CAPITAL ECURRENT         T TAL  CAPITAL ECURRENT
RECEIPTS EXPEND. PENDITURES   RECEIPTS EXPEND. EXPENDITURES RECEIPTS EXPEND. PENDITURES
1988     1988     1988           1989     1989     1989          1q90     1990            %CCHANGE 1
PRADESHIYA SABHA                                                                                                  88-90
Akuressa              2713             (2713)          3066             (3066)          3801     1056   (2745)       40
Dovinuwara
Dikwea                1180        6    (1174)          1464      281   (1183)           1935      130   (1805        64
Hakmana                600              (600)           827      162    (665)           1006      491    (515)       68
Kambfufl
Kotanl
Ptabeddara          1505       47   (1458)           1971      471   (1500)           2533      512   (2021)       68
Mallmboda              334       91    (243)            371              (371)           489       28    (461)       46
Matara                 817      257    (569)            994      155    (839)           1469     1099    (370)       80
Muay                   620              (620)           769      719      (50)           948      299    (649)       53  10
Pasgoda
Thl _goda              620              (620)           459       63    (396)            666              (686)      11
WeOgama                821        1     (820)           817      361    (456)           1362      253   (1109)       66
Note 1. ReceIpts projected to grow at 5% per year.
Sorrce: Urban Programme Unit, MPPI and mIsson estInates
'U
oP



SRI LANKA
COMMUNriY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROVINCIAL AND LOCAL ADMIMISTRATION
Table 6: DISTRICT OF RATNAPURA
TOTAL  CAPITAL ECURRENT          TOTAL  CAPITAL ECIJRRENT        TOTAL  CAPITAL ECURRENT
RECEIPTS EXPEND. PENDITURES RECEIPTS EXPEND. EXPENDITURES RECEIPTS EXPEND. PENDITURES
1988     1988     1988           1989     1989     1989          1990      1990     1990  %CHIANGE%1
PRADESHIYA SABHA                                                                                                  88^-90
Makaianpanna          1455     6729      5274          6517             (6517)          5013      566    (4457)     245
Ayagama
BaIangoda                                               594              (594)                                        0
Eheyagoda             1468      152   (1314)           1724       94   (1830)           1502      387   (1115)        2
EmbUiptya             1330             (1330)          2230             (2230)          1649       75   (3223)       24
Imbulpe
Kalawana               417      838    (421)           1054             (1054)           833              (833)     100
Kolonnra               443      382      (61)           545       97    (448)                                              o
Kuruwita              2403      251   (2152)           3128      464   (2664)           2379       27   (2352)       -1
Nividgala             1820      299   (1521)           2515      561   (1954)           2712      963   (1749)       49
Pelmadulla                                                                              1743       14   (1729)        0
Ratnapura              562              (562)          1259             (1259)           752       13    (74s%)      34
Weligepola             532      277    (255)           1054             (1054)           708      110    (598)       33
Note 1. ReceIpts projected to grow at 5% per year.
Source: Urban Progranme Unit, MPPI and mission esImates.
Ii



- 101 -
Table 1 of 4
SRI  AK
COWMMNTY WATER SUPPLY AMM  SATATION PROJEC
EconoMic AnalXsis Data
TABLE 1 - Benefit Cost Flows:   Basic Assumntions
Protectd   HP       HP    aovIwty  Pumped Tebal
Yr               Wells  shallow    Tub     SoJno  Scheme   Hous
Well    Well                          hods
No.of HouaeoldsSoved       (a)     (b)                (c)       (d)
1993              5.0     0.2       2.1       3.3      1.4         11.9
1994              7.1      0.3      3.0       4.7      2.0         17.1
1995              10.9    0.4       4.7       6.1      2.4         24.5
1996              13.6    0.5       6.6       7.4      3.7         31.8
1997              16.2    0.6       8.2       9.6      4.2         38.8
Totl             52.8    1.9       24.5      31.2      13.7       124.1
=Noiashodspwschpem           1S       28       37       6a         1
Density (HH/HA) (s)           ria    nm       ra         1.5      re
Finanelal Cost I Scheme by Type (Rs '00)
Investment Cost p' eohom(lncl. Physcal Contingoncies)
Diect                    11.111  59.060  106.378  362.058   11.111
DGvopment ()             0.852   4.526    8.156    27.758    0.852
Toate orlwn ent           11.962  63.588  114.534  389.815   11.962
Annual Recurent Cost per scheme (Rs 000) (g)
Oam                        0.238   0.500    0.800    10.943    0.677
Repairs                   0.069   0.300    1.000    5.09 j    0.102
Total Recurrent            0.307   0.800    1.800    16.037    0.778
RaUo of EconomIc to Financial Cost
Diret a Overhad              90.8%   90.5%    90.8%    90.0%  90.10%
Development                 89.4%   89.4%    89.4%     89.4%    89.4%
(a) 32% of PW are 4m and have cost of Re 13268; rmander are lOm deep and coat 27644;
(b) 32% of HPW are 4m and have CMst of Re 24154: rmandrw are 1Om deep and cost 50510
(c) Gravity Direct InvesIent Costs are cakulated on the basis of oe co of
di_fnt shod scdhes, and the numbers of each type.
(d) Pumped scene esnmated on per household bass ftom exIstrig schemes.
(e) DensIty rvant orly to cost of grt schtmes
(I) Deveopment tsimaled at 7% of Dect Costs and Overhead
(9) Estmatd from the FeasbIlty Study,Table II.Chaptmr VII:
Repars re annualked periodi costs from sams source



-102 -                                  Tabl 2 of 4
COMMMNITPLTER SUPPLY AM  SANITATION PRQ,UCT
Ecnomig Analvoir Data
TABLE 2 - Estimate of Unft Benefits
1. Veluaden of Time Sa" n
Wago raw (Rhmeur)           6   SOd Cmnvalon FOW (SOCF)      0.0   WMP. boor prim (UP)           4.1
U1M  EThsSaved                       P_Munwaled Work       Houework          OUe                TonI
Va     WOnWaghtby U                       100%               80%               21%
BrglHt. bordet prIGeO(UP) (R               4.5               2.25              1.125
PropoeUonfl Tm by Um                       43%               42%               15%              100%
Wdehd Bdft,1 P (Raf 1ur)                  * 1.94             0.95              0.17             3.05
We"ghdB et9  P (Ra Inbmw)                 0.032             0.016             0.003             0.051
2. Estimat of Time Savings
Protead   HP      HP    Oravity  Punmpd
Wells  Shailow   TuW    Sch,s_  Schwm.
Well    Well
a. Unaceptable Supples (a)
1IH sao                  5.55    5.55    S.55     5.55      5.6
Ccrumnpdon (Uld)       121.8  125.5   125.5   137.45   127.5
Co^uobsiut (ye")       22.7   22.7    22.7       24.6    22.5
MhW Colecng wster       116.3  118.3   115.3   120.15   111.6
Miftacaplt (rn/o        5.2    5.2      5.2      4.9      4.9
MkVUte                0.9404  0.9404  0.94038  0.87414  0.87529
b. Aceaptable Suppila (a)
mm Sie                   5.5    5.5      5.5      5.4       5.7
Co.numnpdn (d)         145.6  145.6   145.6   108.2   130.3
ConsJiow (I/M          26.6   26.6    26.6    20.0    24.4
MWd COfSOu  wafwf       61.3   81.3    81.3    66.2    74.6
MhtJcapia (nmtld)       3.1    3.1      3.1      3.3      3.1
MmbtU                  0.559   0.559   0.559    0.812    O.S36
c.   pile Ba-eiltl (b)
Time  givei (mln)       0.38    0.38    0.36     0.26     0.84
Time n  mt ConL (ffd)   8.85    8.65    8.65      6.50     7.74
Inanamf*s C4ns.(Wd) (e)   3.92    3.92    3.92   0.00     1.67
Beefit on 'nor. Ccm(nVad    0.75    0.75    0.76  0.00     0.26
ToVetie  naeflt (nVa"   9.40    9.40    9.40     6.50     8.02
Be6 .. JaeYfnpIi (RuF/ld)   0.48    0.48    0.48  0.33   0.41
br.iyer/opite (Rs//yr)  174.36  174.36  174.36   120.46   148.73
"Wm"*                    5.50    5.50    5.50     s.50     5.50
BecnJyearH (RafHHqr)  958.99  95.8s9  958.99   662.65   818.03
Say Rs O0                0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90
(a) Source: Houshld Surveys Mawsier Report. Voiame IVA)
(b) Source: Drved from a. and W .)ove
(C) Anmalou decine In consumpdon for gravity schems Is excluded from benefit *sImate
alsounting Panmeter
HeoZOn                   20 yaws
Opporwity Cost of Capitl (OCC: 10%



cq~KUNt= VATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PRoiEcT
Economic Anlyysis Data
TABLE 3 - Benefit2Cost Streams
(Millions of Rupees in 1991 Border Prices)
Pistoo*a Wells              HNeE  PON# Wells             limed Poop TubSwell.            Gravlt  sob....              Pumped 6.6..**             SBb-Tot.  CAM   PwJeo
bnsot. seem. Seaga   "a    beg. flees. sodI   ni   laress. 9...,,. SeelI   no   b,isl R"oe   Dedl   Nd   by"Lt. Ro*_   MM                      Nd     no   'A4c1    so
YVso   co     cm            6..    Coo    Cod             SNOW   Co       Cod            som   Cod    Cod             CouNt  Cod    cm               oeSt  9es&g   amd   SOEmti
la)    lb)
8065   3.01                  -3.01    0.56                 -0.36    5.92                 -5.92  17.65                -27.61   14.19                .14.71  .42.52   217.03  -173.56
2364    5.n1   0.0    4.40  -0*.$   0.2    0.00   0.1   -0.37   6 42   0.09   I.So   *6.6   25f.2    0.73    2.06 -22.66   23.33    0ff   3.23 -21.11  -51.64    75.40 -121.3
1195   1.00   0.22  10.n 1   2.10   0.00   0.0e   0.6   .0.4   13.11  0e.22   4.56  .6.104   3.11    1.S7    7 1  -27.74  23.16   2.34   3.0  -25.51  -53.I 2    00."  - 10.36
1966   6.65   0.42  20.13  10.40   1.03   0.01   0.13  -0-.5   06.41   0.42    6.1n  -10.10  30.01    3.12  12.11 *.3027   40.6    e.05   5.2t1 .3.01  -*e.24   60.33  .11n.62
1.?   u1.ts   0.61  32.66  20.5S   1.20   0.03   1.16  -0.04  22.61   0.71  14.70  *8.1  52.02   4.C5   10.317  37.40  45.53            62   0.-5  .43.58 -69.0    01.11 l5.1111.
loss           a 07  47.56   4e.5u           0.05   3.It   I .0            1.01  22.04  2e.s0            6.a7  20e4  21.117            4.86     1    2.61   ".n             07221
1666           0.67  47.56   46.16           0.05   1.71    1.36           1.01  *2.04  20.90            1.17  26.04  21.17           #.Ss  *. "   2.61  6S3.2               93.21
2000           0.97  41.56  46.59            0.01   2.11   1.66            1.01  22.04  20.64            6.07  26.04  2.11              5 s6  12.31    2.61  .S.21           63.21        O
so00           0.01  41.56  46.56            0.01   1.11    1.66           1.0e  22.04  20.60            6.37  26.04  21-17            *56  12.57   2.33  05.2t              1'0.2I 
2002           0.67   47.56  46.16           0.05    1.11    1.06          1.01  22.04  20.60            6.G7   20.04  21.17           3.56  12.37   2.01   3.21             63.21 
2o003          0.97  41.5   46.51            0.05   1.py    3.64           1.01  22.04  20.69            6.37  26.04  22.t1            O.5   32.31   2.62   05.22            03.21
2004           0.67  47.5e6  46.1            0.05   1.S    1.66            1.01  22.04  20.a0            6.01   26.04  2.217           0.56   32.31    2.51   3.a1s          n a*
20os           0.61   47.56   46.59          0.0e   1.71   2.66            1.07  22.l4  20.66            6.61   204  21.17             6.56  12.31   2.53  63.21             63.21
2006             .   47.56   46.56           0.05    .71    I66            1.01  22.04  20.60            3.01  20.04  21.11            6.56  12.31    2.3   65 21            6221
20o0           .01   47.50  46.53            0.05   1.71   2.06            1.07  22.04  20.e             6.67  20.04  21.11           6.U0  12.37   2.81  6).21              02.22
2006           0.67   416  46.56             0.05   1.11    1.00           1.01  22.04  20.6             0.61  a2 04  22.27           6.2-   12.21    2.62  8S.21            02 as
tool           0.61  47.56  46.5,            0.05   1.11    1.00           1.07  22.04  20.60            6.01  26.04  21.17           6.56  22.27   2.61  63.21               3 21
2010           0.37   47.58  46.51           0.01   1.71    I.6s           1.01  22.04  20.9             6.07  28 04  21.1?            6.56   12.57   2.21  63.21            63.21
201t           0.17  47.56  46.10            0.05   1.11    I.06           2.01   2.04  20.66            6.81   2.e04  21.17          s.56  12.21   2.61  63.21              05.21
2012           0.91   41.56   40.56          0.05   1.11    3.66           1.01  22.04  20.6             6.67  26.04   21.11           3.56 i1.?.7   2.Pl  63.22             63.21
2022           0.06  42.06  42.20            0.04    1.51   1.S1           0.61  20.14   1.117          6.24   25.07  13.62           0.61   11.13   2.53  04.23             60.33
2014           0.71  56.65  55.00            0.04   1.S2   1.20            0.64  11.45  16.60            5.11  20.66  IS.7S           7.02   9.34   2.12  71-.s              71.66
201S           0.55  26.13  26.20            0.03   0.97   0.35            0.64   22.25   12.01          5.16   11 3n   11A.51         5.     7.16    1.62  55.04            55.04
2036           0.50  14.60   14.30           0.01   0.52   0.S5            0.35   1.34   6.66            2.13   6.01   3.55           2.64   3.80   0.8   2.20               23.20
2t1o           0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00           e0.00   0.00   0.00           000   0.00   0.00   0.00                0.00
2016           0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00           0.00   0.00    0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00   @.00               0.00
"It0           0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00  .0.00   0.00           0.00    0.00    0.00          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00               0.00
2020           0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   0.00   0.00            0.00   oo 0.00        0.00   000      00    0.00           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00               0.00
VW       21.S1   6.30  314.55 252.63   2.60   0.22  11.26   7.11  49.03   6.06  144.41  15."0  121.51   4S.11 306.51    0.40  105.52  65.26  01.34 .00.64 252.61   375.29  -122.06
onl    12S.7%                MRS       42.5%               335       30.3%               833       10.6%               me3      C Voivol  21.2%= 3333%
0.3.8kg Vdim g10t d.o.sv ..m
6116%  3050%   -60%          256%  2236%   .64%            I55M  I200%   .52%              5%    14%   .5%            -64%  .142%   110%                     .25%                8
0*
2eso   *.oo   o.eo   e.eo   e.ee   o.w    *.eo   o.ee   e.eo   e.oe   o.oe   e.oo   e.eo   e.oe   o.ce   e.oo   Ooo             e.oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
Ii  od mSoS   d s.eos eo.ee   e.oem..         e.eead mo.eo . e.oon          o.e oc          .ooo                  .o oo                  .o oo          .o oeo
60bibC 2.51 dl. p*  oo.5s~  ., m15Z..uo  m..e oa2is h1.2 u oi..da  big..s cuu.sd hi.^ oISo.H pApksI ooigwb. ii ue.IVb h S.4  1O.80      nn e.s   2.*2s.sas.s
N~~a4117  *.#u4s. Vum me.Wlo o 2 a.s



- 104-
ANNF% 17
Table 4 of 4
COMMUNITY WA   SUPPLY AND SAT=AToN PROJECT
Economic Analysis Daa
TABLE 4 - BenefitZCost StreeS.epsitivitXy Aalysis
(Millions of Rupees ir, 1991 Border Prices)
"bivity Test                            Schemes Ai2o                                           Total  Proeolt
a      b       a       d       *       I       g       h       S_         a       b        e       on
OhpMM lnv.Cold    t10%   12C%    00%    :00%    100%   100%   100%    120%         100%      101%     100%     120%    100%
Rauinm Coo        100%   100%   100%   120%   100%   100%   100%    120%           100%     100%     IOO%    120%      100%
*eilt             100%   100%   100%   100%   110%   120%    80%           AO%     100%     100%     100%      00%     100%
@Uw kmCca          0%      0%      0%      0%      0%      0%      0%      0%       0%      110%      SOv     120%    104%
t193       .46.7?  .51.03  .38.27  -42.52  -42.52 -42.52 *42.52  *51.03   .42.52  .193.26  -111.04  .215.47  .179.58
1904       *S7.01  -63.90  .45.70  *52.21  *50.70  .40.60  *5s.e   e66.50   -51.64  .134.04  -89.57  .157.05  .127.S0
togs       .87.74 -75.65 *ot.50  *60.53 .57.01  .84.40 .64.84  .81.0   *59.e.2  .170.4?  .1 10.01  .202.01  .160.39
1oe6       -80.18  -01.12 .86.30  .70.84  .04.42 .59.80  .78.68  -102.30  .09.24  -166.66  -114.43  *210.01  -159.82
1SO?       .82.74  .06.00 .56.00  .71.95 .61.72  .54.04  -04.75  t113.009  80e.40  .156.5e  .110.39  .212.37  .161.38
1988        63.21   03.21   03.21   80.50  104.38  115.56  70.80   87.16    03.21    03.21    03.21    67.16    93.21
10 0        03.21   0.21   93.21   80.50  104.38  115.16  70.86   07.16    93.21    03.21    03.21    67.16    03.21
2000        03.21   03.21   93.21   60.50  104.38  115.85  70.05   67.16    03.21    03.21   0s.21    67.16    93.21
2001        03.21   93.21   93.21   09.50  104.38  115.55  70.86   67.16    63.21    03.21    93.2    67.16    93.21
2002        83.21   03.21   03.21  89.50  104.38  118.85  70.86   67.16    03.21    03.21    03.21    57.16    03.21
2003        03.21   0s.21   03.21   80.80  104.38  116.58  70.86   67.1      93.21    03.21    03.21   e07.1    s3.21
2004        03.21   03.21   03.21   89.50  104.38  118.s5  70.80   67.16    83.21    03.21    93.21    67.18    03.21
2005        63.21   93.21  03.21   86.50  104.36  115.55  70.86   67.10    93.21    93.21    03.2I    67.18    95.21
2001        63.21   03.21   93.21   80.80  104.3S  118.85  70.86   67.16    93.21    02.21    03.21    67.16    93.21
2007        03.21   03.21   03.21   89.50  104.38  118.55  70.06   67.10    93.21    93.21    93.21    67.10    03.21
2006        93.21   93.21   05.21   80.50  104.38  115.55  70.86   67.16    03.21    03.21    0s.21    67.l6    03.21
2009        93.21   93.21   03.21  80.50  104.30 115.55  70.86   6.16    03.21    03.21    03.21    67.16    93.21
2010        83.21   93.21   93.21   80.50  104.38  114.55  70.86   67.16    83.21    03.21    93.21    67.1t    93.21
2011        93.21   93.21  90.21  89.50  104.38  115.55  70.88   67.16    93.21    03.21    93.21    6.16    93.21
2012        93.21   03.21   03.21   80.50  104.38  118.55  70.86   67.16    93.21    93.21    03.21    67.16    93.21
2013        14.33   84.33   84.33   61.00   94.43  104.52  64.13   60.81    84.33    84.33    S4.33    60.81    64.33
2014        71.60   71.66   71.66   66.87   60.23   86.79   54.54   51 75    71.66    71.66    71.66    51.78    71.a6
201s        83.04   53.04   53.04   50.94   50.39  6S.75   40.33   36.26    53.04    53.04    53.04    38.23    53.04
2016        20.20   29.20   29.20   26.06   32.70   36.19   22.22   21.07    20.20    29.20    20.20    21.07    29.20
2017        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      .00
201         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2010        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
20o0        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
NFY               221.87  191.14  286.35 230.30  319.76  366.91  116.31   34.53   252.81  .60D.21   64.97  -415.82  .122.06
110.0%   17.2%   23.7%   20.2%   23.9%   26.6%   15.5%   11.4%    21.2%    6.7%    11.9%     I.ss     7.3%



- 105 -ARM  18
Page I of 2
SRI LANKA
Comuunitv Water Supplv and Sanitation Project
Environmental Aspects
Introductior
1.        The components of this project are formulated to provide greater
access to safe, reliable water supply, improved environmental sanitation
facilities and an intensive hygiene education program, through a community-based
development  approach, which will  improve  the  economic  and  environmental
conditions in the targeted rural areas of Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura Districts
of Sri Lanka. No major adverse environmental impacts are anticipated. By far
the greatest imnacts of this project will be improvements to the quality of
everyday life and of the health of the people living in the project areas.
2.        The environmental assessment (EA) aspects of the 1990-91 studies for
the preparation of the District Development Plans and the Priority Investment.
Plans in the project Districts identified the following three potential areas of
negative environmental impact associated with the project: (a) depletion of water
sources; (b) pollution problems arising from increased water use and related
sullaga disposal; and (c) groundwater pollution by latrines.  These possible
impacts and related mitigation measures are discussed in more detail below.
Depletion of Water Resources
3.        In some of the dry areas of Sri Lanka, excessive pumping of water from
tubewells has been blamed for lowering the water table. This only applies to
high-yielding tubewells used with motorized pumping for piped distribution to
communities. The amounts abstracted by handpumps have insignificant effects in
this regard.   The widespread availability of surface water sources in the
generally wet project area (see map IBRD 23635) offers a more cost-effective
source alternative for larger pumped schemes, so the problem should not arise.
4.        One problem observed during field surveys concerns the use of springs
for gravity piped schemes. As most of these sources have low flow rates, they
may be diverted almost completely to the potable water system, thus depleting
streams and re-emergent springs downstream. This could interfere with existing
uses of water, commonly for paddy irrigation.  Particularly in the case of re-
emergent springs, it may be difficult to assess this effect prior to tapping the
spring. This is primarily a social rather than environmental problem,and must
be resolved by community dialogue where it arises, which will be promoted by the
project's emphasis on community participation. This participation in planning
may also be the best way of assessing the likely downstream effects of tapping
springs. Inclusion of this factor in guidelines for gravity' schemes should
highlight this potential problem.
Sullaae Disgosal
5.        Surveys carried out during project preparation showed little effect
of the distance to a water source on consumption, so it is considered unlikely
that improved access to supplies colleated from outside the household compound
will significantly increase the volumes of bullage generated. Localized problems
in the areas immediately surrounding standposts, yard taps or handpumps are
readily resolved by a combination of maintenance and responsible use of the
system, and sound design incorporating dr  .nage arrangements.   Significant
increases in water usage can, however, be expected where house connections are



- 106 -                            Page 2 of 2
installed. This will only be a factor in the urban areas destined for coverage
by piped supplies.   In these cases, project designs would include suitable
arrangements for dealing with wastewater as part of the overall scheme
development proposals to be agreed with the Community Water and Sanitation
Program Unit (CWSPU).
Groundwater Pollution
6.        Groundwater contamination is possible through the use of low-cost
sanitation units. However, in rural and village areas, the proper siting of
wells and latrines (e.g., consideration of soil type and proximity to water
supply facilities) will greatly reduce the potential of contaminating drinking
water supplies.  In areas of higher population densities (such as in towns),
piped systems will be installed, drawing water from safer sources or treating the
water before it enters the distribution network. The CWSPU will be responsible
for training Partner Organization staff, alerting them to situations where
contamination of groundwater used as drinking water is possible, and the required
remedial measures. Salt water intrusion is prevalent along the coastline in
Iatara District where there is also high population density. In this area, the
National Water Supply and Drainage Board has prepared plans to provide service
through piped vvstems.  The four Divisional headquarters towns of Dikwella,
Devinuwara, Matara and Weligama are currently having thelr piped water supply
systems upgraded under an Asian Development Bank-funded program.
Watershed Management
7.        The continuous reduction in groundwater resources, as reflected in
lower dry season spring flows and water levels in wells, is perceived in Sri
Lanka to be the result of loss of soil cover through deforestation, the planting
of trees with high water demand, such as eucalyptus and conifers, the harvesting
of fuelwood and timber, the elimination of fallow periods in shifting
cultivation. All three project Districts are susceptible, especially Matara and
Ratnapura which are more densely populated, where the rainfall is greatest, and
hence where the most erosion occurs.
8.        Proven, sustainable land use techniques exist that are relatively
inexpensive and simple, and thus amenable to the rural poor. These include: (a)
alley cropping/hedgerow farming; (b) home/forest gardens; (c) shelterbelts/
windbreaks; and (d) fuelwood/fodder/green manure plots.   Under the Studies
component of the project, the Government would undertake pilot protection
measures on a number of selected (and completed) schemes, to determine the
potential of ensuring sustainable catchment area protection by communities.
9.        The agreed selection criteria used for review of potential schemes are
formulated to ensure that water scheme designs incorporate measures to mitigate
any potential adverse environmental or health impacts.



- 107 -
Amx 19
Page 1 of 2
8RI LAMA
OIIUNITT WATER 8UPPLY AND SANITATI1N PROJICT
lected Docimetae a Ad Data Available in the Prolect File
1.   Societies Ordinance, 1956 Revision
2.   Co-operative Societies Law No. 5 of 1972
3.   Co-operative Societies (Amendment) - A Bill, dated November 22, 1991
4.   Voluntary Social Service Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act.
No. 31 of 1980
5.,  Pradeahiya Sabbas Act No. 15 of 1987
6.   Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution; dated November 14, 1987
7.   Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987
S.   Sri LAnka Rural Water Supply  and Sanitation Sector Study,  1988, by
Plancenter Ltd. and Ove Arup and Partners.
- Final Report, Volume lt Executive Summary (Doc. No. P16826)
- Final Report, Volume 2: Main Report (Doe. No. P16827)
- Final Report, Volume 2: Annexes (Doe. No. F16828)
9.   Rural Water Supply District Development Plans - Hatara, Ratnapura and
Badulla Districts, Sri Lanka, by Covater International, Inc., in
association with Engineering Consultants Ltd. and Sarvodaya Shramadana
Inc., June 1991.
- Volume I.   Summary
- Volume II.  Institutions, Policy, Implementation Strategy
- Volume III. Natara District Plan
- Volume IV. Ratnapura District Plan
- Volume V.   Badulla District Plan
10. Priority  Investment Plans, Final Report,  November  1991, by Covater
International, Inc., in association with Engineering Consultants Ltd., and
Sarvodaya Shramadana Inc.
- Volume I.    Chapters 1-5
- Volume II.   Chapters 6-8
- Volume III.  Chapters 9-14



- 108 -
MNELLI
Page 2 of 2
- Volume IV A. Survey Results, Part 1. Household and Village Surveys
- Volume IV B. Survey Results, Part 2. Participatory Planning Surveys
- Volume V.    Preliminary Engineering Designs Part 1. Module Designs and
Coatings
- Volume VI.   Preliminary  Engineering  Designs  Part  2.         Badulla.
Participatory Planning and Pre-engineering Design Documents
- 10 Villages.
- Volume VII.  Preliminary Engineering Designs Part 3.  Pre-engineering
Design Documents - 40 Villages, Small Towns
- Volume VIII. Preliminary  Engineering  Designs  Part  4.          Matara.
Participatory Planning and Pre-engineering Design Documents
- 10 Villages.
- Volume IX.   Preliminary Engineering Designs Part 5.   Matara.   Pre-
engineering Design Documents - 40 Villages, Small Towns
- Volume X.    Preliminary  Engineering  Designs  Part  6.    Ratnapura.
Participatory Planning and Pre-engineering Design Documents
- 10 Villages.
- Volume XI.   Preliminary Engineering Designs Part 7.  Ratnapura.  Pro-
engineering Design Documents - 40 Villageo, Small Towns.
11.  National Water Supply and Drainage Board Income & Expenditure Statements
for Fiscal Years 1984-1991.
12.  National Water Supply and Drainage Boa=d Source and Application of Funds
Statements for Fiscal Years 1986-1991.
13.  Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura Districts Pradeshiya Sabhas' Statements of
Revenue and Expenditure 1988-1990.
14.  Model Contract Documents  Project Development Services Agreement
15. Model Contract Document: Project Implementation Agreement



SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
)  i   -      : C  E N   I/.R AEL                                                            PROJECT DISTRICTS
PROJECT DISTRICT /0-UNDAIES
/                                                                           A GA. DMSION BOUNDARIES
W     E                                                            wd-                                                            kiVUS MP>to  RE9 9Huillgur  u l o   <   r  ,  I A V
SELECTED TOWNS
ION MAlTX CTAL
MAIN ROADS IGRADE A)
- - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIFS
M. iy.. P.                                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -EOMTCE BOUNDARIES
\4      Tsa a t > h * _ t A AMBANTOA                                                          ELEVATIONS IN METERS
V GALLE  < ,   ,0   ff  X   W                                              >    b             0  Z  tASTERNj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENRA    0 TV
&    o   ao  20  ZD  -0       \//                                                                                           ,=,,ft~KEGA A  Ridi..-iddo 
COLOMBO                       MONEb(lun-7nLG                                                               NORTH
%NUWA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE
ELIYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
K.I                                                                                                                                               I    NVoiMEDIAtoEA
0                                                                                                                            MA t'W  ~A VKA                    EEARA  V .
DNkWRIIIT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inttEERI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IZAOR                           A



