Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19455
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
June 29, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1992:       US$1.00 = 44.00 Rupees
Intervening Year 1995:     US$1.00 = 50.69 Rupees
Completion Year 1998:      US$1.00 = 68.00 Rupees
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBO                 Community Based Organization
CWSPU               Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit
CWSSP               Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project
GOSL                Government of Sri Lanka
NGO                 Non Governmental Organization
NWSDB               National Water Supply and Drainage Board
OAP                 Operational Action Plan
OED                 Operations Evaluation Department
PO                  Partner Organization
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
RWSG-SA             Regional Water and Sanitation Group-South Asia
TSC                 Technical Support Cell
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   Mariana Todorova
Sector Director:    Frannie Humplick
Team Leader:        Jelena Pantelic
Task Leader:        Khawaja Minnatullah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background  ..........                     ....................... ..1................................I
B. Evaluation of Objectives ....................................................................1
C. Achievement of Objectives ....................................................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................................6
E. Project Sustainability ...................................................................                                                        10
F. IDA Performance ...................................................................                                                               10
G. Borrower Performance                                       ..11
H. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................................                                                        12
T.  Future Operations ...................................................................                                                           12
J.  Key Lessons Learned ..................................................................                                                           12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment .14
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credit .15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .15
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursement .15
Table 5:                  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:                  Key Indicators for Project Operation.                                                                                      17
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A:  Project Costs .19
Table 8B:  Project Financing .19
Table 9:   Economic Rate of Return.                                                                                                                 20
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 11:                 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .21
Table 12:    Estimated IDA Resources: Staff Inputs .22
Table 13:  IDA Resources: Missions .22
APPENDICES:
A. Project Background Details ..................................................................                                                    23
B. Final Supervision/ICR  Preparation Mission Aide Memoire ........................                                  .........................      25
C.  Operation Plan ...................................................................                                                              38
D.  Sri Lanka's Implementation Completion Report ................................................................                                   3 9
E.  Sri Lanka's Post-Project Activities ...................................................................                                         47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witliout World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Community Water Supply
and Sanitation Project for which Credit 2442-CE in the amount of SDR 16.9 million (US$ 24.3
million equivalent) was approved on December 10, 1992, signed on December 21, 1992, and
made effective on February 25, 1993.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998 according to the original plan. The final
disbursement of SDR 105,048.08 (equivalent to US$142,790.80) was made on May 10, 1999
based on an application received before April 30, 1999. An undisbursed balance of SDR 883.40
(approximately US$1,190 equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Khawaja M. Minnatullah, Task Leader and Senior Sanitary
Engineer (RWSG-SA) and Miriam  Witana (SASIN).   Tejbir Singh Phool, Financial
Analyst/Economist (Consultant), visited Sri Lanka and project sites, had discussions with all
stakeholders and prepared an independent assessment which has been incorporated into this
report. Vijay Jaganathan (Urban Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Sector Unit)
served as Peer Reviewer. The ICR was revised by Chandra Godavitarne, Municipal Engineer
(Consultant), assisted by Janice Williams-Palenzuela, Operations Analyst (SASEG). The report
was reviewed by Jelena Pantelic, Team Leader, Urban and Water (Sri Lanka), Frannie
Humplick, Sector Director, (SASIN), and Robert Panfil (Quality Assurance, SASIN). The ICR
was cleared by Mariana Todorova, Country Director for Sri Lanka, South Asia Region.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in conjunction with IDA's final supervision/completion
mission of December 1998. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing pertinent statistical information and commenting on the draft ICR. The Borrower's
evaluation (Implementation Completion Report) and proposed Post Project Activities are given
in Appendices D and E, respectively.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.   Introduction. The Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project (CWSSP) was
IDA's first investment operation for rural water supply and sanitation in Sri Lanka. Previous
support had been for urban water supply and sewerage. This project was designed as a pilot
operation to test the sustainability of a demand-responsive approach with community
organizations responsible for the delivery of rural water supply and sanitation. The approach
was a departure from the traditional supply-driven approach previously used by the Government
of Sri Lanka (GOSL). The strategy required the GOSL to devolve responsibility to community
organizations for planning, design and management of rural water supply and sanitation services,
with the GOSL playing the role of a facilitator. More project details are provided in Appendix
A.
ii.   Project Objectives.  Objectives of the project were to: (a) develop systems and
institutions for community-based planning, implementation, operation, and maintenance of cost-
effective and sustainable water supply and sanitation; (b) implement community-based schemes
in rural areas and smaller towns of Badulla, Ratnapura, and Matara districts; and (c) prepare a
follow-on project that would extend the community-based approach, to be developed and tested
during this project, to the rest of the country.
iii.  Implementation Experience and Results.
Physical Achievements. The physical targets of the project were exceeded, and about
950,000 persons benefited by improved water supply and sanitation services in 2,541 villages
and 12 small towns. About 64,000 individual family latrines were constructed against a target of
45,000. Water and sanitation facilities were provided to 704 schools.
Independent Evaluation. The project was selected for review by the Bank's Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) in FY98. It was commended for good supervision performance and
was given a best practice rating. The project was selected as a case study for the Participatory
Learning and Action initiative under the Regional Water and Sanitation Group, South Asia.
Preliminary findings of this case study draws similar conclusions to those presented in this ICR.
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) which conducted an impact evaluation of the
project in late 1997, also corroborates the conclusions in this ICR. The OED study found that in
communities with low levels of social capital, special efforts are needed to motivate and
mobilize communities to sustain the systems. The OED report also concluded that the project has
made a significant difference in the quality of life in the project villages, with a strong impact on
public health. The report did not confirm the sustainability of this approach.



ii
Implementation Experience. Despite many challenges, project implementation experience
was satisfactory, and was a useful learning experience for all stakeholders.  Systems and
procedures for community-based service delivery were developed and refined as implementation
progressed. The project was successful in mobilizing communities to assume responsibility for
their service needs, and delegating to communities responsibility for planning, implementing and
managing water supply and sanitation services. The quality of performance of Partner
Organizations (POs) and Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) was varied, but was
reasonably satisfactory. CBOs developed a sense of pride and ownership in the assets created.
This strategy has since been adopted in an Asian Development Bank-assisted rural water supply
and sanitation project for six other districts in Sri Lanka. Although CBOs performed well in
planning, prioritizing and mobilizing capital cost contributions, they were less successful in
organizing maintenance and managing assets.
Implementation Challenges. The project faced a number of project management and
implementation challenges. There was an initial shortage of POs (which were mostly non-
governmental organizations with capacity and sector specific experience) to act as facilitators for
project implementation. Selection criteria had not been strictly observed, and some selected POs
lacked necessary technical, social, management and organizational skills to undertake project
implementation. Most CBOs lacked skills to organize maintenance, set tariffs, and collect user
charges. The project objective regarding a follow-on project implicitly recognized that these
aspects would take longer to realize.
In their drive to accelerate project implementation, the district unit in Ratnapura was
found to have engaged in a number of financial and procedural irregularities. Several instances
of mis-reporting on project progress, implementation starts without prior approval, procurement
irregularities, unauthorized cash advances to POs, and general disregard for financial
management, documentation and control had taken place. Following this discovery, prompt
action was taken by the GOSL to remove the concerned officers and recover unauthorized cash
advances. The CWSPU increased the rigor of monitoring, and limited the authority of district
units to procure materials.  These measures inhibited devolution of responsibilities to
communities. IDA came to know of these lapses only towards the end of the project. The
annual GOSL audit of the project accounts and financial statements had not reported these
irregularities either. The project demonstrated the complexities of social mobilization for
participatory development, the need for forming and nurturing community organizations, and the
risks of decentralized implementation without adequate monitoring, financial management and
controls.
Financial Management and Controls. An investigation carried out by Sri Lanka's
Auditor General has confirmed weak financial management in all three districts, especially
disregard of financial procedures, but found no reason to fault project staff or procurement
procedures. As a result of the investigation, some schemes had to be halted due to unauthorized
starts and potential shortage of funds. The Auditor General of Sri Lanka has since determined
that some claims on the IDA Credit arising from the disregard of financial procedures may
constitute ineligible expenditure.



iii
Curtailment of Technical Assistance. Agreement between GOSL and IDA to terminate or
reduce the vital technical assistance inputs for the Technical Support Cell, hygiene education,
and for preparation of the follow-on project may have discouraged institution building and
realization of full health benefits.
iv.   Project Sustainability. Project sustainability is uncertain at this time. The project has
demonstrated the potential for sustainability of decentralized program implementation with
community participation, but further development of social capital would be required to achieve
changes in social behavior.  Project objectives implicitly acknowledged the long-term
developmental nature of this experiment, and the need for consolidation through a follow-on
operation. While for the most part the pilot approach has worked well and was fairly well
accepted, it is too early to assess whether operation and maintenance of assets can be sustained
with resources from beneficiaries alone.
v.    Major Factors Affecting Achievement of Project Objectives. The following factors
affected achievement of project objectives.
(a) Institution Building for CBOs. Some CBOs absorbed the training inputs well and have
undertaken complex tasks such as system expansion, mobilizing additional resources,
and collection of user charges. Most CBOs were inadequately equipped to deal with
tariff setting, cost recovery, asset management, and maintenance of adequate bank
balances. CBOs have an urgent need for guidance in financial and administrative
management.
(b) Quality of Partner Organizations. Serious limitations in the technical and financial
management capabilities of some POs resulted in poorly designed schemes and
inadequate supervision.
(c) Terminatiotn/Reduction of the Technical Assistance Inputs. The termination and/or
reduction of funds for the Technical Support Cell (TSC) and the hygiene education
component mid-way during the project, affected the capacity of the CWSPU with
regard to program strategy development and project monitoring. This decision appears
to have been made without adequate concern for its impact on project implementation
and achievement of project objectives.
(d) The Follow-On Project and Long-Term IDA Commitment. Project funds were
allocated to prepare the follow-on project, and IDA twice indicated its support for the
project. IDA suspended preparation after investigations into weak financial
management commenced. The wavering commitment of IDA for the follow-on project
has created uncertainty and concern in the GOSL. It is unlikely that the project could
be implemented by the GOSL without external assistance. A break in the process has
already occurred, and momentum has been lost. In the absence of a follow-on project
to build on the experience of this pilot, there is a risk that many of the useful lessons
learned may be lost to all stakeholders.
(e) Financial Management. Inadequate financial management marred the otherwise
positive aspects of this pilot project. The CWSPU had inadequate capacity for the



iv
financial management requirements of an innovative project involving this level of
decentralization, and working with community organizations. Annual statutory audits
also failed to discover these lapses. Lack of random procurement and disbursement
reviews by IDA specialist staff or consultants allowed these lapses to go unnoticed till
near the end of the project.
(f) Remedial Works. Additional remedial works were required in about 106 water supply
schemes to replace sub-standard pipes installed in the works at extra cost to the project.
(g) Procurement. Decentralized procurement by the POs faced a number of problems:
high demand in the districts for materials caused price rises and higher project costs;
quality of galvanized iron pipes, pipe fittings and cement available in local markets
was poor; and irregularities in procurement procedures occurred. One of the corrective
actions taken by CWSPU was to centralize procurement. Whilst enhancing quality and
timely delivery, the new arrangement was at variance with the objective of
decentralized implementation.
vi.   Borrower Performance. GOSL performance is rated as satisfactory based on its
commitment to achieving project objectives, its pro-active interventions to ensure a high degree
of community participation through delegation of responsibilities, and successful project
implementation exceeding the agreed physical targets. The GOSL was generally in compliance
with the legal covenants. The strategy has been adopted for another project financed by the
Asian Development Bank for six other districts. Although GOSL did not formally advise IDA
about the irregularities in one district, it took prompt action to remove errant officers and POs,
commenced action to recover unauthorized advances to POs, revised procurement arrangements,
and introduced more rigorous monitoring of project activities.
vii.  IDA Performance. Overall, IDA performance is rated as satisfactory. The project team
worked closely with the CWSPU throughout implementation in pursuit of project objectives,
highlighted key issues and problems, and was able to obtain reasonable responses from the
GOSL. More intensive monitoring and random reviews by specialist staff from IDA would have
helped to reduce the damage caused by financial management weaknesses. The project team
performance with regard to supervision is judged against OED's detailed evaluation, and the
annual government audits, both of which failed to discover the lapses that had occurred. The
lack of a firm commitment, and mixed signals by IDA with regard to the follow-on project, (one
of the project objectives designed to consolidate the strategy), remains a source of concern for
the GOSL. IDA agreement to divert technical assistance funds to physical works may have
affected the institution building objective of the project.
viii. Project Outcome. Project outcomes include: (i) confirmation of the feasibility of
developing mechanisms for decentralized implementation of relatively large projects that entail a
high degree of community participation; (ii) completion and surpassing of all the physical targets
agreed at appraisal; (iii) development of systems and procedures to involve communities in
participatory development; (iv) creation of a cadre of POs with the capacity to act as facilitators
for developmental activities; and (v) achievement of a high degree of community ownership.



v
ix.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
(a)   Findings.  Project objectives have been largely achieved.  All physical
components were completed benefiting about one million people. The GOSL
successfully devolved project implementation responsibilities to communities
using partnerships of NGOs and CBOs. The project encountered the expected
challenges of community-based development, especially in regard to building
social capital, and institutionalizing effective monitoring and financial
management.
(b)   Future Operations. The GOSL plans to continue its support for the community-
based development approach for delivery of rural water supply and sanitation. It
plans to: (i) using Government funds and community contributions, complete the
schemes that were suspended; (ii) develop a strategy for providing long-term
support to CBOs to strengthen their capacity to manage infrastructure; (iii) give
CBOs legal status; (iv) improve project management without compromising the
key role of communities; and (v) prepare and implement a follow-on project.
Expansion of the community-based approach to other areas in Sri Lanka will
depend on a decision of IDA's commitment to support the sector, and possible
assistance for a follow-on project.
(c)   Key Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned from the pilot project include the
following: (i) the decentralized community-based development strategy requires
further refinement and consolidation; (ii) community-based organizations need
intensive training and awareness raising to be fully successful; (iii) re-allocation
of technical assistance funds for physical works should be avoided; (iv) strong
financial management and controls are essential in community-based projects; (v)
consistency is needed between government policies and programs; and (vi) IDA's
commitment to sector development objectives should be long-term, and should
not be affected by project implementation challenges.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Prior Sector Lending. The Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project (CWSSP)
was the first IDA assistance to the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) for rural water supply and
sanitation. Previous IDA assistance to the water and sanitation sector comprised three urban
water supply and sewerage projects, implemented by the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board (NWSDB). In these projects, physical implementation has been generally satisfactory, but
financial and operations achievements were less than satisfactory. Until the CWSSP, NWSDB
was the primary agency for providing rural water supply and sanitation throughout the country.
2.    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Investments. In addition to budgetary allocations to
the sector, Sri Lanka has received substantial bilateral donor assistance for rural water supply
and sanitation which were implemented largely through the NWSDB, a few other government
agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). A multiplicity of institutions has led to
contradictory policies, conflicting technologies, coverage gaps, and management deficiencies.
Implementation of rural water and sanitation projects by the NWSDB was less successful
because it had an urban bias. Rural water schemes were financially unviable due to limited cost
recovery. Thus, it became impossible for the NWSDB to provide satisfactory and sustainable
services to the rural areas. This constraint led GOSL to search for alternative mechanisms for
delivery of water supply and sanitation services to rural areas,
B. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The CWSSP was GOSL's attempt to test the feasibility of fully decentralized water
supply and sanitation provision through a pilot project using Partner Organizations (PO) and
Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) for implementation and management. The GOSL
strategy was to decentralize delivery of rural water supply and sanitation services to communities
to plan, implement and manage. CBOs were assisted by POs for scheme planning and
implementation. The CBOs took over the assets, set tariffs, levied charges, and operated and
maintained the assets.  The GOSL played a facilitating role until the process was well
established. IDA assisted GOSL through financing a feasibility study to prepare its strategy as
well as sharing experiences from similar projects in Pakistan and India. The CWSSP (designed
as a pilot investment operation) was promoted, tested, and refined using the "demand responsive
approach" for adoption in the rest of the country. The strategy therefore included a follow-on
operation to consolidate gains and promote adoption in other districts.
4.    Project Objectives. Project objectives were to: (a) develop systems and institutions for
community-based planning, implementation, operation, and maintenance of cost-effective and
sustainable water supply and sanitation; (b) implement community-based schemes in rural areas
and smaller towns of Badulla, Ratnapura, and Matara districts; and (c) prepare a follow-on



2
project that would extend the community-based approach, to be developed and tested during this
project, to the rest of the country.
5.    Evaluation of Objectives. In the context of the prevailing service delivery mechanisms
before the project, the objectives were appropriate and provided the opportunity to test a new
strategy for service delivery. Project objectives also reflect the GOSL's willingness to test an
uncertain but challenging new strategy for service delivery by devolution of responsibilities to
communities, so as to create a culture of ownership and responsibility for managing community
assets. These objectives were well complemented by project components. The objective of
promoting community-based planning and management of water and sanitation was particularly
appropriate because: (a) previous investments in supply-driven approaches had not proven to be
sustainable; (b) priorities were determined by the government, not beneficiaries; (c) ownership
was lacking; (d) maintenance was poor; and (e) systems were unsustainable primarily due to
poor cost recovery. The objective of preparing a follow-on project implicitly recognized the
importance of consolidation of achievements, refinement and adoption of the strategy in other
parts of the country--if the pilot proved successful. Developing decentralized community-based
delivery mechanisms to provide services, with communities responsible for their management,
remains a desirable and worthwhile objective.
6.    In retrospect, other project objectives that may have been appropriate to include in the
project are: (i) institutionalization of the systems and procedures within the existing local
government framework for mainstreaming implementation in the follow-on projects; and (ii)
strengthening of community organizations.
7.    Project Components. Project components developed to meet the above objectives are
summarized below:
o Program Development (US$1.0 million) for program publicity and promotion, PO
selection and development, CBO registration and training, and project planning and
management.
* Water Supply (US$17.2 million) to provide water to approximately 650,000 people
in 2,700 villages and 17 small towns using protected wells, hand-pumps, spring source gravity
schemes, and pumped supplies.
.  Sanitation (US$1.9 million) to provide grants for villages to establish revolving
funds for loans to construct individual latrines in 3,800 villages and 17 small towns; latrines in
224 rural schools in the project districts; upgrading of existing latrines in about half the
remaining 1,324 schools; and latrines in up to 1,000 pre-schools.
. Hygiene Education (US$1.5 million) to finance media campaigns on health and
sanitation issues run by the Ministry of Health (MOH); hygiene training, orientation of MOH
staff, school teachers, CBO members, community leaders and volunteer workers; purchase of
audio visual equipment, vehicles and computer software; specialized training to selected health
staff of the hygiene education offices; and training, equipment and educational material to NGO
staff undertaking hygiene education.



3
Training (US$0.4 million) for creating capacity development in CBOs for
implementation, operation, maintenance and management to finance training for CBO and PO
staff, rural technicians, local elected officials, public servants, community leaders, and staff of
the CWSPU, including periodic workshops on program experience and development of
methodology.
*  Project Management (US$3.3 million) to finance establishment, equipment and
operation costs of the CWSPU, including its three district offices.
. Technical Assistance (US$7.0 million) to finance (a) technical assistance for
CWSPU capacity building and for studies, including the Technical Support Cell (TSC) to advise
the CWSPU on operations; (b) to assist in the preparation, testing and revision of training
materials; (c) to prepare a number of studies and applied research to support project activities;
and (d) to refine the strategy and prepare follow-on project incorporating experiences gained.
8.    Project Cost and Financing. Estimated total project cost, including contingencies, was
Rs. 1.4 billion (US$32 million). IDA advanced a Credit of US$24 million or 75% of project
costs net of taxes and duties. Beneficiary contributions, in cash and kind, were expected to
finance about US$2.5 million or approximately 20% of the capital cost of schemes, comprising
about 8% of total project costs. The GOSL was to finance the balance US$5 million.
9.    Mid-term Review. A mid-term review was carried out in 1996, and some significant
decisions were made. Allocations for water supply was increased to US$18.4 million, and
program development was increased to US$2.5 million. The allocation for the TSC was reduced
to US$2.6 million; hygiene education was reduced to US$0.3 million; future project preparation
reduced to US$1 million; the sanitation component and the project management component,
were reduced to a combined total of US$4.9 million. At mid-term, it was found that the
population/village system was more than that estimated at appraisal, and that this could lead to a
possible cost overrun. The number of systems to be covered was therefore reduced from 1,000
to 850. At project closing, it was found that even with 850 systems, the village population
covered was about one million, against the appraisal target of 650,000.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
JO.   Objective I: Develop Systems and Institutions for Provision of Community-Based Water
Supply and Sanitation. This objective was substantially achieved. Community-based systems
and procedures were developed involving the participation of community organizations.
Communities decided priorities, and implementation took place with the assistance of
facilitators. Thus, community ownership was developed. The objective of successful operation
and maintenance of water supply and sanitation schemes was partially achieved.
11.   Objective II: Implement Water Supply and Sanitation Schemes in Badulla, Ratnapura,
and Matara Districts. This objective was fully achieved. The project exceeded targets set at
appraisal, and these were achieved about six months before project closing.  The project
benefited about 950,000 persons in 2,541 villages and 12 small towns against a targeted village
population of 650,000 and 17 small towns; constructed 64,000 toilets against 45,000 planned;
and improved water sanitation facilities in 704 schools against a target of 1,348 schools and



4
1,000 pre-schools to be provided with sanitation. Community contributions for capital cost
contribution amounted to about US$3.0 million (excluding community contribution for
sanitation), compared to US$2.5 million estimated at appraisal.
12.   Objective III: Prepare a Follow-on Project. This objective has been partially achieved.
A follow-on project was under preparation. However, because IDA commitment to the follow-
on project has wavered, momentum has been lost. GOSL's future plans include a follow-on
project with possible IDA assistance.
13.   Overall, the outcomes of this pilot project to test the new strategy are adequate to
conclude that objectives have been substantially achieved. In order to fully achieve project
objectives, longer term development support is necessary for awareness raising, education,
training, and building social capital.. Significant features of the project that contributed to
achievement of project objectives are discussed below.
14.  Institution Buildingfor POs and CBOs. Through implementation of the pilot project, (i)
a large number of capable POs have emerged, and have gained experience in collaborative
project implementation as small-time contractors/facilitators; (ii) a cadre of capable managers
gained valuable experience working in the CWSPU and the district and zonal offices; and (iii)
CBOs have been formed to take over responsibility for operation and management of assets
created. Notwithstanding weak financial management, the achievements under the project
(which includes a demonstration of a sustainable process for decentralized project
implementation using a demand-based approach) are judged successful. The process needs
however, to be further strengthened and perfected to achieve all the objectives. The Sri Lanka
Attorney General's report on weaknesses in financial management reinforces the need to have
management of high integrity and commitment, with appropriate remuneration and job security.
15.   Community Ownership. Communities that have gone through the complete process to
implement water supply and sanitation schemes have received great satisfaction in being able to
decide their own priorities, select technologies, arrange for implementation and take over the
assets. Communities have contributed, in some cases, more than 20% of capital cost for
construction, amounting to a total of about US$3 million (excluding community contributions
towards sanitation facilities). The sense of pride and ownership created through this process has
improved prospects of sustainability. Active beneficiary participation also contributed to a
lowering of scheme costs. Both the greater community contribution, and the lower per scheme
cost, allowed enhanced coverage with available funds.
16.   Sanitation Improvements. It is too early to be able to quantify health benefits accrued due
to improved sanitation. However, the increased availability and use of toilets by both adults and
children (except for very small children), along with the message conveyed through school
children regarding health benefits of sanitation and washing hands after using toilets, are bound
to engender good hygiene habits, and in the longer-term, better health. However, curtailment of
funds for hygiene education at the mid-term review may have had an adverse impact on
achieving greater benefits in health.
17. Economic Rate of Return. The recalculated rate of return of 26% is higher than the 21%
estimated at appraisal (Table 9). The rate of return for the entire project, excluding the benefits



5
of other components but including their cost, is estimated at 15%, which is about the same as that
estimated at appraisal. The rate of return on the water supply component was re-calculated using
the methodology used at appraisal. Under this approach, benefits were estimated in termns of
time-savings and costs which comprised cumulative scheme costs.
18.   Environment. Overall, the project had positive environmental impacts through the
provision of improved water supply and construction of a large number of toilets. Project design
took necessary precautions to minimize negative impacts from increased use of water and related
sullage disposal, and point water sources were sited at a safe distance from the toilets.
19.   Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal. The GOSL engaged the services of a
consultant to prepare a feasibility study, including the strategy and project components of the
project. The proposal was consistent with GOSL's overall rural water and sanitation investment
program. IDA provided advice and guidance, shared experiences from other similar operations,
and reached agreement on all major issues prior to appraisal. At appraisal, it was agreed that,
following this pilot, the strategy--with suitable refinements--would be adopted in other districts
in the future. The preparation process was highly satisfactory.
20.   Independent Evalucations by OED and QAG. An impact evaluation of the project was
conducted by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) prior to Credit closing'. The study
began in November 1997 with a review of available secondary data and was followed by field
interviews of focus groups and collection of technical data in a selected sample of villages. Key
findings of the study indicate that: (i) rural water infrastructure was in place and functioning; (ii)
sanitary conditions have improved substantially; and (iii) institutional development achievements
were impressive. The findings also show that the project has followed the participatory approach
to a large extent and that "conditions on the ground turned out very much as planned", with
communities influencing choice of technology and other decisions on scheme infrastructure.
The report specifically concludes "households in communities with the best-performing services
belong to a larger number of community groups than households in the worst-performing
category." This implies that the majority of the communities are operating their systems
satisfactorily and that poorly performing systems are comparatively few in number. The study
found that in communities with low levels of social capital, special efforts are needed to motivate
and mobilize communities to sustain the systems. The report also concludes that the project has
made a significant difference in the quality of life in the project villages, with a strong impact on
public health.
21.   The project was also selected as a case study for the Participatory Learning and Action
(PLA) initiative under the Regional Water and Sanitation Group, South Asia. The assessments
focussed on six institutional levels: (i) users; (ii) non-governmental social intermediaries; (iii)
local government; (iv) district level; (v) state level; and (vi) policy level. Field assessments in
selected villages were carried out in late 1998 and initial findings were presented in December
1998. The preliminary findings draw similar conclusions as presented in this ICR. The final
report of the PLA assessments is expected by December 19992.
'Sri Lanka, Impact Evaluation Report, 6/30/98, Operations Evaluation Department, The World Bank.
2 The overall objective of this initiative was to increase the sustainability of water supply and sanitation services for
poor communities. Phase I of the initiative was to develop the participatory learning process through assessments



6
22.   The project was one of 200 projects selected for review by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) in FY98 for assessing the quality of IDA's supervision work. A commendation was
received for good supervision performance and the project was given a best practice rating.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   The Follow-on Project. Preparation of a follow-on project to extend the community-
based approach to the rest of the country was a project objective. It implicitly recognized the
long-term nature of the developmental approach, and the need for nurturing and further
strengthening community organizations. A follow-on project, based on the lessons learned from
CWSSP, has been under preparation, but has been suspended due to lack of support from IDA.
In the absence of sustained support from IDA or other donors, there is a risk that many of the
useful lessons learned would be lost to both IDA and GOSL.
24.   Long-Term IDA Commitment. In July 1997, IDA indicated that there would be no
support for a follow-on project. In early 1998, IDA changed its stance and indicated its
willingness to support the follow-on project. Soon after project closing, after investigations into
weak financial management started, IDA again withdrew support for the project. These mixed
signals have caused a degree of uncertainty and an undesirable break in the developmental
process, thus frustrating achievement of one of the project objectives, and withdrawal of support
for a project that has been independently judged as best practice. The CWSPU also lost key staff
and was forced to operate with a skeletal staff during its last year.
25.   Termination of the Technical Support Cell. The CWSPU recruited a consulting firm at
the commencement of the project to provide services of the TCS. The team, comprising
international and local consultants, developed implementation programs, monitored progress,
and recommended changes in strategy. Their activities also included preparation, testing, and
revision of training materials. The package of studies and applied research conducted resulted in
several recommendations for improvement in the strategy which were adopted. The services of
the TSC was terminated in April 1998. The original terms of reference for the TSC envisaged a
reduction in the technical assistance inputs, particularly for management information systems, to
"assist in overcoming specific bottlenecks and problems caused by program expansion." Upon
the drastic downsizing of the TSC in 1996 by GOSL, (only the Project Manager was retained),
with the tacit agreement of IDA, incomplete studies were abandoned and data collected was left
unanalyzed and unconsolidated. Another significant shortcoming was the delayed establishment
of a systematic mechanism to support and monitor sustainability of schemes. Despite several
efforts by IDA, the CWSPU started addressing this shortcoming only in the last few months
before project closing, thus limiting the project's ability to improve training of, and support to,
CBOs in a pro-active manner.
26.   When the TSC was terminated, the funds allocated for the TSC were diverted for
physical works. It is a matter of great concern that the TSC was terminated, even though it
played a key role in institution building. Having jointly agreed to make significant allocations
carried out in selected projects. Phase 11 will be to develop a program to improve the capacity of sector agencies to
respond to user demands, using gender-sensitive, participatory approaches.



7
for learning, monitoring and evaluation to support institution building, the GOSL changed its
priorities mid-project--placing a higher value for physical investments--thus compromising
larger objectives. It is equally disconcerting that IDA agreed to this request, apparently without
concern for the impact of this decision on achievement of project objectives.
27.   Project Implementation Problems in Ratnapura District. The CWSPU head office
discovered a number of financial and procedural irregularities in the Ratnapura district office,
which had occurred in their drive to achieve results in accelerated project implementation.. These
include: several instances of mis-reporting on project progress; implementation of sub-projects
without sanction; procurement and use of sub-standard pipes requiring subsequent additional
expenditures for remedial works; procurement of poly vinyl chloride (PVC) and galvanized iron
(GI) pipes at uncompetitive prices; unauthorized cash advances to some POs; and a general
disregard of financial management, documentation and control procedures.
28.   FinancialManagement. Inadequate financial management marred the otherwise positive
aspects of this pilot project. A number of irregularities had occurred in the latter half of the
project, specifically during the tenure of a District Manager of the Ratnapura district, which also
involved some POs. The GOSL took prompt corrective action against the errant staff and POs,
and put in place new measures to improve financial management. IDA came to know about
these irregularities only during the final completion/supervision mission in December 1998.
Following an IDA-initiated investigation, Sri Lanka's Auditor General reported in June 1999 that
there was inadequate financial management in all three districts involving: poor accounting,
inadequate financial controls, and lack of authorizations and essential documentation for
payments made. It is evident that the capacity of the CWSPU, with respect to financial
management, did not match the requirements of a project involving this level of decentralization
and working with community organizations. In response to an IDA request at the mid-term
review, GOSL appointed an internal auditor in February 1998, but the system put in place was
not very effective. As a result, satisfactory project financial management and internal controls
were not established during project implementation, and GOSL has made some claims on the
IDA Credit for expenditures which the Auditor General considers ineligible. These potentially
ineligible expenditures identified by the Auditor General will be further evaluated jointly by the
GOSL and IDA, and appropriate action will be decided.
29.   Ineligible Expenditure. Items involving ineligible expenditure noted by the Auditor
General were as follows:
(i) a number of schemes were started by the CWSPU after the mid-term review in 1996
when IDA had requested that no new projects be commenced because of an
anticipated shortage of funds. When cost overruns became inevitable, and a follow-on
project did not materialize, the schemes were abandoned, even though IDA funds had
been used.  The project thus appears to have incurred ineligible expenditures
amounting to Rs. 10.3 million (about US$152,000);
(ii) advances to POs amounting to Rs. 19.3 million (about US$284,000) have not been
properly accounted for, and have been claimed from the IDA Credit. These are also
considered to be ineligible expenditures;



8
(iii) formation of new community organizations necessarily proved to be a challenging
task. Implementation difficulties arose such as: selection criteria for POs loosely
adopted in all districts; capacities and commitment of POs and their managers were
inadequate for the size and complexity of the project; performance varied and was not
satisfactory in some cases due to inadequate capacity of project managers of the POs;
their financial management and accounting was weak; and the POs were unable to
engage experienced technical officers which resulted in poorly designed schemes and
overestimated costs. Due to constraints and workloads borne by the district and zonal
project unit offices, there were lapses in checking designs thoroughly and evaluating
quantities of materials and cost estimates prepared by POs. Higher than normal prices,
(between 17% to 40% higher), appear to have been paid for PVC and galvanized iron
pipes, particularly in the Ratnapura district; and
(iv) although procedures were established by the CWSPU for record keeping, custody and
stores verification, etc., officials of the POs and CBOs were not aware of their roles
and responsibilities in regard to: (i) receipts, custody, and correct disposal of project
material; (ii) satisfactory storage; and (iii) approvals for use of material. Although
every PO was expected to manage materials methodically, it was found that: entries to
stock records were not supported; Goods Received Notes were not issued for stock
received, nor were appropriately authorized documents used for stock issued;
continuous or periodic stock verification did not take place, excess material was not
returned, and proper records of these transactions were not kept. The inventories of
materials and tools on hand at December 31, 1998, amounting to Rs. 16.1 million
(about US$237,000) may represent an ineligible expenditure.
30.   GOSL Corrective Action on7 Weak Financial Management. When lapses in financial
management were discovered, the CWSPU took several corrective steps to improve monitoring
and financial management: the irregularities were reported to appropriate authorities for
necessary action, an internal auditor was appointed in February 1998; errant staff were
retrenched or sent back to their parent departments; colluding POs were prevented from
participating in future projects; payments to suppliers of poor quality materials were stopped;
unauthorized schemes were suspended despite community protests; implementation monitoring
was systematically centralized; and action was commenced to recover unauthorized funds
received by errant POs, and excess materials issued to POs. Actions taken to date by GOSL
have helped to improve monitoring, improved selection and overseeing of POs, and improved
financial management. However, they also served to centralize project implementation.
31.  Implementationi of Commuinity-Based Projects. The CWSPU had prepared operational
procedures and a financial procedures manual for use by implementation agencies; however,
adequate mechanisms for monitoring and supervision, and ensuring compliance were not in
place. This left many loopholes and opportunities for mismanagement. The annual statutory
audits carried out by the GOSL, the random post reviews of procurement and disbursement by
IDA, and the special OED evaluation, did not report any irregularities, perhaps illustrating the
difficulties of detection.  It also illustrates the importance of effective monitoring and
supervision. Based on the experience from the CWSSP, the modality and implementation
procedures for the follow-on project should be carefully designed to avoid a recurrence of the
problems encountered.



9
32.   Remedial Works. Most water supply schemes were well constructed and have been
generally well received. Communities displayed a high degree of ownership, and acknowledged
that services have improved substantially. However, about 106 out of 847 village water supply
schemes required additional remedial works to replace sub-standard pipes installed in water
supply schemes, mostly in the Ratnapura District. The additional expenditure incurred by the
project because of the sub-standard pipes was about Rs. 10.3 million (about US$153,000), or
about 0.8% of the total expenditure on the schemes. These defects had occurred in schemes
constructed mostly during the tenure of a particular manager of the District Unit in Ratnapura
and in early stages of implementation. More progressive CBOs have been able to mobilize
requisite technical and financial resources to undertake remedial works.
33.   Procurement. Decentralized procurement by the POs faced a number of problems, and
had to be changed during implementation. Problems included: high demand for materials caused
price rises and higher project costs; poor quality of galvanized iron pipes and fittings and cement
available in local markets; and irregularities in procurement procedures--specifically overpricing.
Corrective action was taken to centralize procurement, except for PVC pipes and fittings.
Procurement of GI pipes, fittings, and cement was done through the government-owned Building
Materials Corporation to ensure procurement efficiency, quality and timely availability. PVC
pipes and fittings were procured locally at rates approved by a district pricing committee. Whilst
enhancing quality and timely delivery, these procedures were at variance with the objective of
decentralized implementation.
34.  Institution Building for CBOs. Communities achieved varying degrees of success in
managing scheme operations. As the schemes were handed over to the CBOs, their staff were
trained and assisted in developing mechanisms for collecting tariffs, operations, and minor
repairs. Some CBOs have absorbed these inputs well and have undertaken complex tasks such
as system expansion, mobilizing additional resources, and continuing collection of user charges.
However, most CBOs were inadequately equipped to deal with tariff setting, cost recovery, asset
management, and maintenance of adequate bank balances. These CBOs are in urgent need of
guidance in financial and administrative management.
35.   Quality of Partner Organizations. Partner organizations per se did not exist in the
country as a professional group or as contractors with a social orientation, although some NGOs
had experience in operating in this capacity. As a response to the needs of the project, such
organizations sprang up. Delegation of responsibilities to the District to select POs may not have
been appropriate, as in later stages of implementation, compromises were made in the
application of criteria for PO selection under pressure to achieve completion targets. Serious
limitations on the technical and financial management capabilities of some POs resulted in
poorly designed schemes and inadequate supervision.  The services of some POs whose
performance was evaluated to be incompetent were subsequently terminated, and the CBOs dealt
directly with the project management unit. As a result, the project management unit had to
increase its supervision input.
36.   Counterpart Funds Shortage. The long-standing civil strife and the attendant
expenditures affected the GOSL's ability to provide counterpart funding in a timely manner. It
affected the pace of project implementation in the third and fourth years of implementation.



10
However, this problem was resolved through supplementary budget approvals in the final years
of the project.
37.  Incentives for POs. The CWSPU faced challenges in developing an effective working
relationship with POs. In the early stages of the project, there was a shortage of POs capable of
providing water supply and sanitation facilities. The CWSPU met this challenge by training POs
to undertake the responsibility for project implementation, and by developing procedures for
reimbursing their costs. Later, the CWSPU recognized that the reimbursement mechanism
provided inadequate incentives for speedy implementation, and in consultation with the POs and
CBOs, a new performance based program was successfully implemented. The new program
increased implementation speed, and helped speed up disbursement to meet the project's
disbursement targets.
38.   Formulation of the Sanitation Component. The project design envisaged a 100% loan
program for the sanitation component. This was not consistent with the existing GOSL funding
formula for rural sanitation, which provided about 80% grant element. This formulation made
the sanitation component a non-starter, and valuable time was lost. Early in the project, the
sanitation program was modified to conform to the Government program. Despite this set back,
the project exceeded the originally set target for sanitation coverage.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
39.   Sustainability is rated as uncertain at this time. Based on the outcomes of this pilot
project and the innovative and evolving nature of the delivery mechanism tested, it is concluded
that considerable sustained efforts would be required to achieve project sustainability. A follow-
on project should build on the achievements made under this pilot project. Communities were
successfully involved in the planning, design, and implementation of rural water supply and
sanitation projects to serve their villages, demonstrating a high degree of ownership and pride in
their achievements. The development of CBOs to takeover the assets for operation, maintenance
and management was only partially successful, and required a more intensive training and
awareness building to develop commitment, and to organize management of infrastructure. The
more progressive CBOs demonstrated their ability to: independently establish tariff levels based
on operating costs, organize collection of user charges from the community, organize and carry
out routine maintenance, and even expand schemes to improve the quality of service.
40.   Many CBOs are still organizationally and financially weak as they lack the confidence
and experience to organize maintenance services; have been delinquent in collection of user
charges; and have little cash reserves in their bank accounts. The project has demonstrated: the
potential for sustainability of developmental work with community participation, the need for
further training of CBOs, and the necessary consolidation to effect a change in social behavior.
In comparison to the previous supply-driven approach, this strategy has resulted in lower capital
and recurrent costs, and a sense of ownership and beneficiary satisfaction with the level of
service provided.  The original project objectives implicitly acknowledged the long-term
developmental nature of this experiment, and the need for consolidation through a follow-on
operation.



11
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
41.   Despite some shortcomings, overall IDA performance is considered as satisfactory. IDA
had invested considerable resources and effort to support the GOSL to test the new strategy
involving a high degree of community participation. While the experiment was a success, the
dynamics and the complexities of devolution of responsibilities may not have been well
understood, specifically with regard to the need for intensive monitoring and financial
management in a project with this level of decentralization. The late discovery of financial
irregularities illustrates the lack of in-depth supervision, the difficulties of detection, and the
need for rigorous monitoring and random post review with specialist staff or consultants. It is
noteworthy that the annual audit by the Auditor General also failed to discover the irregularities
when they occurred. The operational problems encountered were about normal for IDA-
financed projects, and especially so in this innovative experiment.
42.   IDA made substantial contributions to project design and refinements based on evolving
project implementation experience.  Despite the many challenges, project objectives were
achieved, and targets exceeded. However, IDA's acquiescence for the termination of services
provided through the TSC, and allocation of that portion of the Credit to implement additional
physical works may have affected institution building in the longer-term. IDA's wavering
commitment towards a follow-on project has created concern in the GOSL, forced the GOSL to
abandon some schemes, and adversely affected the morale of the CWSPU. IDA placed more
emphasis on project implementation problems rather than the potential gains to sector
development from GOSL's unique experiment in participatory development, thus leading to a
break in preparation of the follow-on project. However, as the project is still in the lending
program, IDA has the opportunity to support this strategy with the appropriate refinements based
on lessons learned.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
43.   Based on the project outcomes, its commitment to decentralized participatory
development, and support to achievement of project objectives, the performance of GOSL is
rated as satisfactory. The GOSL put in place systems and procedures to create new CBOs to
provide opportunities for communities to participate in the planning and provision of water
supply and sanitation services to rural communities. The GOSL has commenced formulation of
draft legislation to provide legal recognition to CBOs to facilitate participatory development, and
to establish mechanisms for effective water resources management. The GOSL has reinforced
its commitment to the principles of participatory development through adopting the same
strategy in six other districts in a project financed by the Asian Development.
44.   The CWSPU has faced many challenges in the implementation of decentralized
development, yet it has addressed these challenges despite some difficulties intrinsic in the
process. The GOSL had placed a high degree of confidence in the performance of community
organizations and decentralized implementation, which proved to be somewhat fragile, as these
institutions were young and were in the process of evolution. Although most schemes were
generally well prepared and efficiently implemented at lower costs, the rigor of monitoring and
evaluation did not match the needs of this innovative project that involved a high degree of



12
decentralization.  However, the weaknesses in financial management do not negate the
soundness of the strategy and the physical achievements.
45.   Although the GOSL took action to correct weaknesses in financial management, it did
not formally advise IDA of the problems. The GOSL was generally in compliance with legal
covenants. Despite its continuing budgetary constraints, it provided necessary counterpart funds.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46.   Overall, project outcome is rated as satisfactory.  The primary project outcome is
confirmation of the feasibility of developing mechanisms for decentralized implementation of
relatively large projects that entail a high degree of community participation in design,
implementation, and operation. The project exceeded all the physical targets agreed at appraisal.
Other outcomes include: (a) the development of systems and procedures to involve communities
in participatory development; (b) creation of a cadre of partner organizations with the capacity to
act as facilitators for developmental activities; (c) achievement of a high degree of community
ownership that would facilitate achieving sustainability; (d) the recognition of the need for
continued support to newly formed community organizations; and (e) the need for financial
management and intensive monitoring. Training outcomes were only partially successful.
1. FUTURE OPERATIONS
47.   The CWSPU has prepared a plan for Post-Project Activities (Appendix E), which
comprises the following main actions: (i) support for CBOs and POs to complete schemes that
were started, but halted due to lack of funds; (ii) assistance to CBOs to undertake remedial
measures for those deficiencies in schemes already completed; (iii) monitoring CBO
performance and developing a strategy for providing long-term support to them; (iv)
development of a detailed financial management, financial controls and monitoring system; (v)
preparation of streamlined procurement procedures for project implementation; (vi) adherence to
the demand-based, participatory approach; and (vii) completion of preparation activities for the
follow-on project, incorporating lessons learned from implementing the CWSSP. A summarized
Operation Plan is attached as Appendix C.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
48.   Key lessons learned from the pilot project include the following:
*  The Decentralized Community-Based Development Strategy Requires Further
Refinement and Consolidation.  Community- and demand-based participatory
approaches for development have good prospects for sustainable development, and
can be effectively used to deliver services such as simple rural water and sanitation
schemes. Selection, training and consolidation of community organizations take
longer than a five- to six-year project period, to be successful.
*  Community-Based Organizations Need Intensive Training and Awareness Raising.
Community organizations need time to develop fiull commitment and acquire
experience to manage infrastructure assets.  While it is relatively easier for
communities to organize themselves for planning design and implementation of



13
schemes, they are less successful in taking over and managing assets, for which
intensive training and awareness raising programs should be incorporated in project
design. Project design should also include appropriate pricing guidelines and training
to assist CBOs to organize maintenance and manage village infrastructure, with more
emphasis on building social capital.
* Re-allocation of Technical Assistance Funds for Physical Works Should be
Avoided. IDA agreement or acquiescence with the Government to divert funds
allocated for institutional building sets a bad example and diminishes the potential for
achieving project objectives. When the Borrower is unwilling to utilize technical
assistance funds allocated for institution building, IDA should reject requests for
diversion of the funds for physical works, and cancel that portion of the loan/credit.
* Strong Financial Management and Controls in Community-Based Projects are
Essential. Where decentralized implementation is done with community
participation, project design should ensure that adequate financial management and
controls, and monitoring with checks and balances, are built in to assure efficient use
of funds. IDA should deploy additional specialist staff or consultants for random
procurement and disbursement post-reviews so that weaknesses in financial
management can be identified and addressed promptly.
*  Consistency is Needed Between Government Policies and Programs. Project design
(e.g., sanitation component) should ensure consistency between IDA financed
programs and Government programs to ensure similarity in approach and financing
terms.
* IDA 's Commitment Needs to be Long-Term. Wavering commitment by IDA does
not facilitate achievement of project objectives. Use of community organizations for
developmental activities is fraught with teething problems which need to be
addressed jointly with the Borrower with the larger picture in view. Projects with a
high degree of community participation, require long-term sustained support to assure
success and sustainability.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1 - SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Obiectives                 Substantial        Partial         Nealigible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                     m         
Sector policies                                  V_
Financial objectives                              _
Institutional development                         /
Physical objectives                                                 _
Poverty reduction                                 _
Gender issues                                     I/
Other social objectives                           I
Environmental objectives                           _
Public sector management                           _
Private sector development                         _
Other (capacity building)                                           _
B. Proiect Sustainability                      Likely                    Unlikely                 Uncertain
(1)                        (1)                      (1)
C. Bank performance                            Highlv
satisfactory               Satisfactory             Deficient
(1)                        (1)                      (V)
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance                         Hiihly
satisfactory               Satisfactory              Deficient
(1)                         (V)                     (1)
Preparation                                         [Z]
Implementation                                       _ 2
Covenant compliance                                 U
Operation (if applicable)                f                                     __=
E. Assessment of Outcome                Highl                                                         Highly
satisfactory       Satisfactory         Unsatisfactorv        unsatisfactory
(V)                 V )                   (V)                   V )
O~~~~~~/                                                   F z 



15
TABLE 2 - RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Wate7r Supply I                  Help expand water supply facilities in      1977            Physical works completed
(Credit 709WCE)                 Colombo and construct new facilities in                      satisfactorily, but with delays and
Kalutara and Ambalangoda                                    with less than satisfactory
financial and operational
I _____________________________   __________________________________   _____________________  efficiency
Water Supply 1                   Further expand the Colombo water            1980            Physical works completed
(Credit 1041-CE)                supply systenm and augment its sewage                        satisfactorily, but with delays and
conveyance facilities                                       with less than satisfactory
financial and operational
I________________________  efficiency
Water Supply and Sanitation     Primarily the rehabilitation of              1986            Physical works completed in
(Credit 1700-CE)                 Colombo's water and sewerage systems                        1996, one year behind original
scheduled closing date.
TABLE 3 - PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification (Initiating Project Bnief  NIEPS 11/90
.Pre-Appraisal                             9/91                                    NA
Appraisal  12191                                                                  2/92
Negotiations                              3/92                                    8/4/92
Board Presentation                        7/92                                     12/10/92
Signing                                                                           12/21/92
Effectiveness                                                                     2/25/93
Project Completion                        12/31/97                                12/31/98
Loan Closing                              12/31/98                                 12/31/98
TABLE 4 - LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(SDR million)
I1              ::--   -   ---- ..              FY93    FY9         FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate                                1.68       1.12    2.38       3.43       4.2      3.99     0.21
Actual                                           1.426    0.373   1.387   2.346   5.151   4.087    2.130
Actual as % of estimate                           85%    33%   58%   68%   123%   102%  10140/
Appraisal estimate cumulative                     1.68        2.8     5.18      8.61    12.81       16.8    17.01
Actual cumulative                                 1.43    1.799   3.186   5.532  10.683  14.770  16.900
Actual as %  of est. cumulative                   85%       64%       62%1   64%          83%1   88%1 99.4%
The last date of disbursement of SDR 105,048.08 (equivalent to US$142,790.80) was made on May 10, 1999,
with respect to an application received and approved before April 30, 1999.



16
TABLE 5 - KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
E                gg~~~~~~~~~~~~
A     Program Development
Expenditure                    US$1.0 million               US$2.5 million    US$2.2 million
Achievements                   Conduct promotion activities to  --            Demand exceeded
encourage demand for water                    project's ability to finance
supply and sanitation schemes                 schemes.
B     Water Supply (Villages and Small
Towns)                             US$17.2 million              US$18.4 million    19.6 million
Expenditure                    650,000                      -                 1,010,000
Population covered                                          __. _
B1   Village Schemes                     Not Estimated                850               847
BR2   Small towns
Schemes Complete 12/98         17                           12                10
Populations covered            Not Estimated                -                 36,000
Schemes Complete 03/99                                      _                 12
Populations covered            Not Estimated                                  46,000
C     Sanitation                                                                                               l
Expenditure                    US$1.9 million               US$1.7 million    US$-2.2 million
Total Latrines                 Approximately 50,000                           66,000
Beneficiaries                  Not Estimated                                  360,000
Village Schemes                Not Estimated                                  850
_Small towns                        17                          _        _12
Rural school and pre-school    1,881                                          699
llD      Hygiene Education
Expenditure                    US$1.5 million               US$0.3 million    US$0.3 million
Achievements                   Educate beneficiaries on     Same              Improvements in over
importance of hygienic                        half the households
. __________________________________  practices                                   surveyed
E     Training                                                                                                 I
Expenditure                    US$0.4 million               US$0.4 million    US$0.4 million
Achievements                   Develop implementation       Same              Implementation partly
_________________________________  capacity                                 .     successful
F     Project Management               _   _
Expenditure                    US$3.3 million               US$3.2 million    US$3.2million
Achievements                   Establish head office and three   Same         Head office, regional
regional branches.                             branches and sub-regional
offices established for
greater demand
____________________________                  _responsiveness.
G     Technical Assistance                                               _                 __l
Expenditure                    US$7.0 million               US$2.6 million    US$3.3 million
Achievements                   Technical Support Cell to assist              Inadequately utilized
in institutional development,
training, financial management
strengthening, engineering
design, hygiene education, etc.
H     New Project Preparation            US$ 1.0 million              US$ 1.0 million    Financed by PPF



17
TABLE 6 - KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
GROWTH OF RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM
t. :   . .: : : : w w :    ......    ....                                 ..    .. ...    .....        . .......   .. ..... ... ..   ........... ..   ...   .. ....... .. ... ..   .  ,.   .    .   ... . . ....
........................... N........ ...... . ......b....- ::14: .::.1D  --   1 a . ioI
Stage                 C~~~~umulatve,,Number fRra Schemes at teEd o Ea,                               h  ea
'.  ' ' '  ' ' ' :  '   : : : : ":..........................9 9 4 :                    1   5: :  1: ::19:9s :':::9: 8:  s
Under Development                                      108             127            207             438               45
Under Construction                                                      74             161            353             608 _
LCompleted                                                                17              81            170             305             847
Cancelled for technical issues                                                                                          21              21
Suspended for lack of funds                                                       I_                          _                        111
Total                                108            218             449             961             979             979
GROWTH OF SANITATION PROGRAM
Stag             :            CumulativeNumbe ofbRuf                     Scheme atte  E-              f E    Y
.                                                                          ....   ,  . .... .... . :.:. ::: :: !: : : [Z7 1 ::-::: 1779 : s7Z : . :. l U.   . . . . . . . . . . .-. . ..   . . . .   . . .. . . . . . . . .
I                 .                     ~~~~~~          ~~~~~          ~~~19,931  1:::9'94w  1995...6199.199
Under Construction                                          T           62          1,193           5,340           7,912 _            . __
Completed                                                    16         60            588         11,284    37,088    45,000
Total                                     1         122           1,781         16,624          45,000          45,000
GROWTH OF SCHOOLS PROGRAM
t ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ... .. ..                                        .....  ..    .... :-......:.:-..:.:...:.::- -.-..::.:. !
Stage                          Cumula` ve Numberof Rurat Schemes at :thTeEndofEa
_________________                        _   :       ........... ....  1993  1994::  -- 1995S        1996 4   -      1997             1
....... ! .....!   ! :!!:::!!       -::!!:.::  : :-          ||-                                                            :1        :998
Under Development/                                                                        2               8             1 5           258
Construction
,ICompleted                                      _               _                          4               1               2           505
Total                                     I               1            61              9              17 1          763
GROWTH OF SMALL TOWNS PROGRAM
,, -......................     ..  .,............. ...... ........ .. ,
1..;Stae  ...-..-..----.---   Cumulative Number of Rural Schemes at the End of.Each Year-!!!! X
__!_!_!   _ ._!_:!:_:_:_::: _        |_:_         :  1993            1994|:          1995            1996             19              1
Under Development                              _               _                          2               3               7   _        __
Under Construction                                                                        4               5               8               2
Completed                                   T                                 ______1                                     2             10
Cancelled for technical issues               I________                                                                                    5
Total                        ____|_6                                                   9              17              17



18
TABLE 7 - STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
. g  g      g    g[tt Defiediuros  -nt~c bfX>                                          Stu.dys W   W
1    Improving School     Implementation of school   Study successfully    Three recommendations were adopted
Water Supply and    program by developing base-  undertaken and      and resulted in improving community
Sanitation in Sri   line for the state of affairs in  resulted in four  participation, raising awareness, and
Lanka               a cross section of schools    recommendations    conducting a hygiene program.
2    Rainwater Harvesting  1.  Study Sri Lanka       FenTo-cement tanks    The technology was successfully taken
experience and lessons   developed, pilots  from pilot to full scale field
2.  Design new storage    carried out and       implementation in areas that receive
system                potential customers   adequate rainfall.
3.  Pilots in two villages    identified.
4.  Examine demand.
3    Water Rights issues   Find ways and means of    Study made five       Water rights issues made key subject
resolving issues related to    recommendations, four  area in training modules, more
water rights that surfaced in   were adopted     information collected in household
village water supply and                        surveys, steps to improve relations
sanitation sub-program.                         between stakeholders, and a follow-up
study to improve implementation.
4    Institutional        1.  Assess efficiency and    Recommendations for   This study contributed largely to an
Development of           effectiveness of the  more systematic       improvement in the social engineering
CWSPU                    CWSSP management    implementation,         and the participatory implementation
2.  Identify distortions and   improving operations,   of schemes.
bottlenecks           and ensuring social
3.  Assess capacity to    engineering is of
implement nationally.    adequate standards.
5    Preparation of Legal   Provide legal advice to water  Recommended use of   A negotiated agreement approach was
Water Rights issues.   supply schemes and the  negotiated agreements,  to a large extent successful in
CWSPU.                    and mediation over    resolving water rights issues.
=_______________ __    =       _litigation.
6    Research and         Assess the potential of the    Recommended       Publicity of the rope pump was
Demonstration of    rope pump as appropriate   publicity and installing  undertaken, and model pumps were
Rope Pump           rural technology.          demonstration pumps.  installed.
7    Legal matters related   Mitigating conflicts between   Study recommended    Tripartite memorandum of
to Small Towns      CBOs, NWSDB, CWSSP,    ways to resolve the       understanding between NWDSB, local
and local authorities.    existing conflicts.   authorities and CBOs improved
implementation.
8    Impact assessment of  Assess effectiveness of   Recommended steps to  Most recommendations were adopted
CWSPU training      training programs.         improve training and    and improved training program.
programs                                       self monitoring.
9    Performance         Improve the perfonnance of   Study recommended    Most recommendations were adopted
assessment of POs   POs                        steps to improve      and improved program for developing
functioning of POs.    and implementing village schemes.
10   Achievement          Assess the impact of the   Recommended steps to  Selected recommendations adopted
Assessment of       Project on beneficiaries   improve functioning of  contributed to improving program for
CWSSP Schemes                                  POs CBOs, CWSSP,    developing and implementing village
and District Offices  schemes.
11   Economic Analysis    Examine the Economic Rate  Study completed and    ERR greater than anticipated in SAR
___   of CWSSP             of Return                  ERR estimated
12   Effectiveness of     Assess the extent to which  Study recommended    Selected recommendations were
Hygiene Education    hygiene education message    steps to improve   adopted and contributed to the
Message             was delivered              hygiene education     improvement of the hygiene education
I__________________  I___________________ _  program s  program.



19
TABLE 8A - PROJECT COSTS
(USSMillion)
XProgiram Development       0.7<  0..= 8                           3.9l
Water Supply               11.1      21       13.2               19.6l
Sanitation                 1.4       0.0      1.4                2.2
Hygiene Education          1.0       0.2      1.2                 0.1
Project Management         2.0       0.6      2.6                4.2
Training and TA            1.7       4.0      5.7                 3.3
Physical Contingencies     1.3       .5   l  1.9
Price Contingencies        4.8       07       5.5
Total Project Costs          24.0       8.2      32.3                33
TABLE 8B - PROJECT FINANCING
(USS Million)
Ap s            e(Uma S ;- SW
Source                  Local    Foreign  Ttl:    :   TotaL:
Government                 5.5       0        5 5                 6
IDA                        16.1      8.2      24.3                24
Communities                2.5       0        2.5                 3
Total                      24.1      8.2      32.3                33
Details on local and foreign breakdown of purchases are not available because CBOs purchased imported
materials from distributors and could not report on the domestic or imported origin of these materials.



20
TABLE 9 - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
...........                        ...._ .._ _ _                           - .  ...
..... ;  ;. ;At A                   is..........  ipriaAt Completion
~~~~~~~~~.             ...... .,i.  ,      iSE    , iEE   !   L ......   . .   EEEE....ESi: S  ?!Ei
Water Schemes                     21.2 %                         26.4 %
All Costs                         7.3 %                           14.9 %
Inputs used to Estimate Benefits
* Per capita water consumption (literlcapitaJday): without project: 22 with project: 25-26
*   Time spent to collect water (minutes/liter):    without project: 0.87-0.94       with project:  0.54-0.61
* Opportunity cost of water collection (Rs/hour); 5.00
* Standard conversion factor for labor and capital: 0.9
Unit Cost Assumptions (In 1991 Rupees)
At Ap raisal           [          At Completion            l
Investment      O&M (per   *Investment             O&M (per
Cost by        month per    Cost by               month per
Scheme         household)    Scheme               household)
Gravity Schemes        205,800              10.0       Actual cost                15
Spring Box                  n/a              n/a       for each                    5
Tube wells               92,000              9.0       scheme                     15
Dug wells                18,400              1.8        adjusted to                5
(Protected)                                             1991
Piped Pumped                n/a             50.0        Rupees                    50
Schemes              I__
Rainwater                   n/a              n/a                                   5
Harvesting                            I                                I _
*Discounted @100/o/annum over 7 years
At appraisal, the economic rate of return for water schemes was estimated to be 21 percent, and for the entire project was
estimated to be 7 percent Benefits were estiinated in tenns of time saved for collecting water, other benefits, such as reduction in
water borne diseases, or changes in property values could not be ascertained. Costs included investment and operating costs. The
present analysis relies broadly on the same methodology. The analysis at appraisal estimated the economic rate of return (ERR)
for each water supply scheme; in this analysis, the ERR of the entire water supply component was calculated in the absence of
less aggregated data on investment cost by scheme. Key assumptions are documented below, and to the extent possible are
compared with assumptions made at appraisal.
Actual investment costs for different village and small town schemes have been tabulated. Operating costs have been
estimated for current and future years to cover an estimated project life of 20 years. Border prices are calculated using the
Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9 for both labor and capital. These costs are re-expressed in constant 1991 terms to facilitate
comparison with the analysis conducted in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Benefits are estimated by first tabulating the number of households served and then calculating the economic value of
time each household saved for collecting water. This estimate varies by different types of technology. The time saved has been
valued at the 1991 rate of Rs. 5 per hour. The time savings realized from avoided collection of water include the per liter savings
of both the without project consumption and the incremental consumption facilitated by the project.



21
TABLE 10 - STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Covereant 2.02 (b) C         8/2/95     Open a special account           Account opened and PPF repaid when     l
l                                                            e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~redit was declared effective.l
| Coversant 4.01 (b)    CP       7/l/93     Audit records of each fiscal year,    Audit reports were provided in a generallyl
and furnish these, Special       timely manner, but each report was
Accounts and SOEs to IDA within   qualified and required an action plan to
6 months.                        correct problems. Further, these audits
missed reporting irregularities in
Ratnapura district.
Covenant      Schedule   CP                    CBOs to establish and collect    CBOs established charges and collected
4                                charges from beneficiaries on    tariffs. However, success in tariff
Paragraph                        piped schemes sufficient to cover    collection is far from uniform across
7c                              the cost of O&M and the larger of   CBOs. Field visits indicate that many
depreciation or debt service.    CBOs have poor collection ratios and only
about one or two months of expenses at
hand in cash or in banks.
Covenant      Sched. 4    C         1/1/95     Update Action Plan               Action plan was periodically updated.
Para. 8
Covenant      Sched. 4    C        8/2/95      Apply the policies, criteria and  Project policies were generally applied to
Para. 8                          procedures established under the  all schemes in project districts and were
project to all schemes in the    also largely adopted for a subsequent small
project area for rural water supply,  towns project in additional districts
sanitation, and hygiene education    financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Status Codes: C-complied, CD-Compliance after delay, CP-Partial compliance
TABLE 1 1- COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
m iii  umber ad   Tite--                              :Comments.                 ...
OD 10.60 Accounting, Financial       Audits were submitted regularly. These were generally qualified and
Reporting, and Auditing              required follow up action by the CWSPU. Further, the audits failed to report
a significant case of mismanagement that adversely affected project
l _____________________________ _   .im plem entation.
OP 6.30 Local cost financing and     Beneficiaries' contribution of the capital cost of scheme totaled
cost sharing                         approximately 27% as opposed to the SAR estimate of approximately 20%.
OD 13.55 ICR preparation             The borrower supported the preparation of this ICR and is preparing its own
evaluation of the project's achievements.



22
Table 12 - Estimated IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Pre-appraisal                                                 29.9                                              91.2
Appraisal                                                     28.9                                              88.0
Negotiations                                                    7.1                                             23.6
Supervision                                                  145                                              241
Completion                                                     8                                                17
Total                                                        220                                              461
NA - Not available
Table 13 - IDA Resources: Missions
.~~~~~~~                                                         .~~~~~~:k~~~~~~x.......
Identification     10/90        NA          NA              NA
Preparation        1/91         NA          NA              NA
Preparation        10/91        NA          NA              NA
Appraisal          2/92         NA          NA              NA
Post Appraisal     6/92         NA          NA              NA
ISupervision        2/93          3        1 11          EN,CP, PA               I                              Need for uniform policy
Supervision        7/93          3           7          EN, EN, OA              1                 I                     TC
Supervision        3/94          4          11        EN, EN, ID, CP            1                 I                  PS; O&M
Supervision        10/93         3           6         EN, CON. FO             NA                NA             Report not available
Supervision        2/94          3          11         EN. EN, CON              1                 1           Disbursement lag, O&M
Supervision        9/94                              EN-2, CON-2, CP           NA               NA              Report not available
Supervision        6/95          4          16         MF, EN-2, ID             S                HS                    O&M
Supervision        1/96          1           7              EN                  S                 S                     AF
Supervision        7/96          3          10          EN, MF, SA              S                 S                  AF; O&M
Supervision        11/96         3          12          EN, MF. SA              S                 S                     AF
Supervision        7/97          3          10           EN-2, MF               S                 S                     AF
Supervision        3/98          3           8           EN-2. FA               S                 S                      AF
Supervision        8/98          5          1 1      EN-2, FA, CP, EC           S                 S                 Staffturnover
Last Mission       12/98         6          15       EN-3. FA, CP, EC           S                 S                    O&M
StaffSkills                                                 Perrormance Ratings                   Types ofProblems
AR - Architect, CON - Consultant,                            I - Minor or No Problems              AF: Availability of Funds
EC - Econornist, EN Engineer,                               2 - Moderate Problems                  PS: Progress of Studies
CP - Community Participation Specialist,                    3 - Major Problem                      TC: Technical capacity building
PA Project Advisor,                                         S - Satisfactory                      0 & M: Operations and maintenance
ID - Institutional Development Specialist,                  HS - Highly Satisfactory
FA - Financial Analyst, FO - Field Office OP, OA
Operation Analyst, OP - Operations Officer, PO Project
Officer. TTL- Task Team Leader,
MF Municipal Finance Specialist,
SA - Social Anthropologist



23
Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
PROJECT BACKGROUND DETAILS
1.     The Country. Sri Lanka's population (18.6 million in mid-1997), has been growing at a rate of about 1.3
percent per annum. About 75 percent of the population live in rural areas. The country has made impressive social
gains despite its low annual per capita income of US$740, due largely to high levels of literacy and education, and
free medical services.
2.     Economy. The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has had an unbroken record of democracy; yet its
economic growth was hampered by a continuing etlnic conflict started 16 years ago. The state accounted for about
a quarter of total civilian and military employment. Trade liberalization lhas been pursued and an attractive
investment climate has been created; but the government has intervened heavily in agricultural trade pricing. About
70 percent of all land is owned by the state, and pressure on land for housing has been increasing. Budgetary
pressures arising from the civil war make it very difficult for the GOSL to meet infrastructure needs of the country,
and to maintain levels of health and social services, especially rural areas where an estimated four percent of the
population live on less than US$1 a day.
3.     The Project. The project was designed to test a strategy for decentralized mechanism for delivery of water
supply and sanitation services in the districts of Ratnapura, Badulla and Matara, with participation of communities
and community organizations.
4.     Project Cost and Financing. Estimated total project cost at appraisal, including contingencies, was US
$32.3 million. The project formed part of the GOSL program of rural water and sanitation investments to be
implemented over five years, and communities were expected to contribute about 20 percent of the capital cost in
the form of cash or labor.
5.     Appropriate Technology. Teclnologies adopted were least-cost, simple, and amenable for operation and
management by communities. These included for water supply: protected wells, hand-pumps, spring source gravity
and pumped schemes; and for sanitation: twin pit pour flush toilets. Another technological option (rain water
coBlection) was developed in response to community demand.
6.     Institutional Arrangements. The institutional arrangements included: (i) a national steering committee to
advise and guide the Community Water and Sanitation Program Unit (CWSPU); (ii) a Technical Support Cell (TSC)
in the CWSPU to provide the technical underpinning and support to strategy development by monitoring lessons
learned during implementation, refining the participatory planning process, and developing methods for providing
support to strengthen CBOs; (iii) a central project unit for project management and coordination, and district offices
for delegated implementation responsibilities; and (iv) project implementation by Partner Organizations (POs) in
close collaboration with communities.
7.     POs included NGOs, NWDB and Pradeshiya Sabhas. The POs helped create CBOs from the pool of
beneficiaries; and CBOs took an active role in scheme planning, design, and monitoring implementation. In
addition to capital cost contribution, communities were required to assume responsibility for operation, maintenance
and management, and to set and collect appropriate user clharges to meet expenditures for management of assets. It
was also understood that this strategy would apply to other future GOSL or donor-funded rural water and sanitation
programs.
8.     Partner Organizations. POs were selected from among NGOs and local level organizations (Pradeshiya
Sabhas, cooperative societies, etc.). They were expected to play a multi-functional role, providing guidance to the
CBOs in all aspects of implementation (e.g. planning, designs, procurement, construction, operations). PO selection
criteria included the following: (i) legal status; (ii) size of the organization; (iii) in-house experience; (iv) financial



24
credibility; and (v) management and administrative capacity. Each selected PO had to field a staff of at least three
(project manager, community facilitator and teclhical officer) for each village scheme (Grania Niladhari Division@).
The CWSSP invited all NGOs, irrespective of their specialization, as it was found that there were only a handful of
NGOs with experience in water supply and sanitation. This required a heavy demand for sector-specific training
from the project.
9.     Success in implementation relied largely on the strength and composition of the partnership formed
between the PO and the CBO, and the capability of the PO. The performance of POs varied. Although NGOs were
considered less bureaucratic, with no political connections, vis-a-vis government organizations, most had loose
administrative setups, which left room for staff mismanagement. This was more evident among the 'local' NGOs
(those from the area of operation), but also affected national NGOs, that had to decentralize operations and recruit
additional staff to cope with the workload.
10.    Three-party agreements (CWSPU, PO and CBO) were signed for the plysical implementation of the
village schemes and payments were made on a reimbursement basis. A separate agreement was signed between
each PO and the CWSPU for the reimbursement of staff remuneration and site administrative costs.
11.    An evaluation of PO perfonnance was made in the latter half of 1997, using criteria based on quality of
construction, social, teclmical and financial skills, and effectiveness of the partnership.  POs classified as
'incompetent' were discontinued.
12.    Implementation Franmework.  The CWSPU developed a framework for project implementation and
management comprising: criteria and procedures for selecting POs and CBOs including their roles, responsibilities
and obligations; methodology for mobilizing communities, training in dissemination of hygiene education, planning
and implementation of sub-projects, and take over and management of assets including financial management. POs
were provided training in the various steps of project planning, implementation, and mobilization of communities.
The CWSPU undertook the task of publicity and promotion to mobilize communities, and to create demand for
water supply and sanitation schemes. Additionally, training was provided to CBO and PO staff, rural technicians,
locally elected officials, public servants, community leaders, and staff of the CWSPU. The CWSPU provided final
technical and financial sanction for wvater supply and sanitation schemes prior to commencement of implementation.
Completed schemes were turned over to the CBO, for operation and management. CBOs were provided training in
management of the assets.



25
Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2442-CE)
FINAL SUPERVISION/ICR PREPARATION MISSION
(December 3 -18, 1998)
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
1.     An IDA Task Team comprising Miriam Witana, Mallika Samaranayake, Julitta Rasiah, Kirsten Hommann,
Tashi Tenzing, Tejbir Singli Phool and K M Minnatullah carried out the Final Supervision and ICR Preparation
Mission for the above project during the period December 3 - 18, 1998. The team acknowledges with thanks the
support and assistance of the Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project Unit (CWSPU), Community Based
Organizations (CBOs), Partner Organizations (POs), the Rural Water and Sanitation Unit of the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board (RWS, NWSDB), local authority representatives from the Badulla, Matara and
Ratnapura districts and senior staff of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MHUD), the External
Resources Department (ERD) and the National Planning Department (NPD). The list of persons met is attached as
Annex 1.
2.     The mission focused on: (a) the status of actions agreed with the previous IDA mission; (b) physical
progress; (c) financial status; (d) special account; (e) post project strategy, and (f) preparations for the ICR.
3.     This Aide Memoire summarizes the mission's findings and recommendations, discussed at the wrap-up
meeting chaired by Mr. V K Nanayakkara, Secretary Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MH&UD) on
December 18, 1998.
B. Summary of Findings
4.     The project has completed 766 village water supply schemes, while 84 are nearing completion. On project
completion, a total of 850 village water supply schemes will provide drinking water to about 1 million people, more
than 50 percent over the initial SAR target of 650,000. The project will also exceed the target for latrine construction
by about 18%. Project disbursement to date is US$16.6 million which amnounts to 98% of the credit The credit is
expected to be fully disbursed. However, in some schemes service delivery has been found to be unsatisfactory due
to technical defects and weak management capability of the CBOs. The financial health of the CBOs also appears
uncertain in many cases.
5.     During the field visits, the mission learnt of alleged irregularities in project procurement, and financial and
physical reporting in the Ratnapura District. In executing its fiduciary responsibility, IDA will engage an
independent entity to carry out a full investigation of project activities in this district. The GOSL promised that
CWSPU will provide access to whatever records, documentation and other information that will be requested by the
investigator in connection with the investigation.
C. Detailed Findings
6.     Status of actions agreed durinz the last mission: Data and information required for the ICR has been
provided by the CWSPU. The National Policy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation is yet to be finalized.
Background information for the legal and statutory status of the CBOs and regulatory framework for the rural sector
is still under preparation. The senior staff positions of Deputy Director, Community Development and Accountant
were filled, while the posts of Deputy Director, Teclnical and Regional Director Ratnapura are still vacant.



26
7.     Field visit: The mission visited several village and small town water supply schemes in the districts of
Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura. While all the completed schemes visited are functioning, the mission noted that m
some schemes a number of households are not getting adequate water supply. The main reasons are documented in
paragraph 16 below.
8.     Physical Status: The status of plysical progress as of November 30, 1998 is in Annex-2. The overall
physical progress of the village water supply component indicates that the target of 850 village schemes will be
reached by the project closing date. However, there will be insufficient time for consolidation activities for the
recently completed schemes. Sanitation targets have been exceeded by 18% -- a result of the much larger demand
for latrines than was envisaged. Nine small town water supply schemes are expected to be operational by project
closing, and three are expected to be completed in early 1999. Given that all the necessary materials have already
been procured for the on-going schemes, IDA disbursements will not be affected. 80% of the target for the school
water supply and sanitation component will be reached by project closing.
9.     Financial Status/Disbursements: Project disbursement to date is US$16.6 million which amounts to 98% of
the credit. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed. As per the Credit Agreement CWSPU will be allowed to
submit withdrawal applications up to April 30, 1999 for expenditures incurred by December 31, 1998.
10.    Recovery of Advances from Partner Organizations (POs): As per the records of CWSPU, SLR 38 million is
still outstanding with POs. CWSPU should take immediate action to (i) carry out a complete and detailed review of
all outstanding advances with (a) POs that have completed schemes, and (b) POs that have partly
completed/suspended schemes; and (ii) take necessary steps to recover all outstanding advances. It has been agreed
that CWSPU will provide IDA a detailed report by January 29. 1999.
11.    Special Account: CWSPU has initiated action to collect documentation for the SLR 65 million that was
advanced to the three district offices. CWSPU agreed to submit to IDA complete documentation for the advanced
Rs. 65 million by January 29, 1999.
12.    Proiect Costs: Excluding community contributions, total project expenditure for 1998 (as of end November
1998) is Rs. 498 million. To date, Rs. 336 million (of Rs. 475 million that was requested by CWSPU) has been
received from GOSL as Consolidated Funds and Rs. 320 million from IDA, towards this expenditure. Although IDA
credit is expected to be fully utilized, CWSPU anticipates that GOSL funds of about Rs. 150 million (including Rs.
139 million that is yet to be released by the Treasury) will remain unutilized by the end of 1998. Excluding
community contributions, cumulative project expenditure to date (November 30, 1998) is Rs. 1.8 billion.
13.    Community Development: Commuunity participation was found to be fairly high during design, planning
and implementation stages. About 80% of labor contribution appears to be by females who were not in employment
and could spare the time, while male family members who were generally engaged in casual employment could not
provide labor for the project. Women's contribution during construction was significant. However, heavy work
associated with dug wells were mostly done by men. In some instances, women have used the time saved for
collecting water for income generating activities.
14.    PO Capacitv: The POs participating in the project are mostly NGOs and a few were Pradeshiya Sabhas or
Multi Purpose Cooperative Societies. Field visits and community perception reveal that the capacities of different
POs to address the expectations of the project in building social capital varies considerably. The project has
addressed this aspect by (i) providing further orientation to the POs to build their capacities; (ii) evaluating the PO's
performance; and (iii) discontinuing the services of some of them. The reduction of the number of POs from 86 in
1996 to 65 in 1998 is an indication of such efforts.
15.    Sustainabilitv Issues: Althouglh the quality of construction is satisfactory, field visits, discussions with
technical staff of the CWSPU and CBOs and findings from various studies indicate that in some schemes service
delivery is unsatisfactory due to the following technical and management weaknesses: (i) inaccurate topographical
surveys; (ii) lower source yields; (iii) connections taken by influential people without contribution; (iv)
inappropriate tariff setting and irregular collection/payments; and (v) ad-hoc O&M by the CBOs. Furthermore for
the Small Towns, mechanisms for meter repair and clear definition of roles of the CBO, Pradeshiya Sabha and the



27
NWSDB is critical. CWSPU and NWSDB agreed to address these issues in the post project strategy to ensure
sustainable service delivery.
16.    Operation and Maintenance: All CBOs collect pre-determined fees for 0 & M and each CBO has a positive
cash balance. However, it has been observed, that the collection of fees for O&M has remained largely ad hoc.
While there appears to be a clear willingness to pay a monthly contribution, regular collection of fees is hampered
by (a) the reluctance of CBOs to hire full-time caretaker and fee collector; (b) the lack of enforcement of the role for
disconnection due to unclear legal status of the CBO; and, in some cases, (c) significant cash balances in the CBO
savings account. As indicated in the field visit report in Annex-3, some CBOs appear reluctant to spend the funds for
system improvements required, in some instances, to ensure equitable delivery of water to all beneficiary
households, as they are unclear about their mandate to utilize the O&M fund. Instead, cash is accumulated in the
CBO account, which yields low or even negative real returns in the presence of high inflation rates. A clear
mandate, instituted by provision of legal status to the CBO, could remedy this concern.
17.    Cost-Sharing and Levels of Subsidies: From the field visits and ensuing discussions with both regional staff
of the CWSPU and the CBOs, it is not clear if the principles underlying the current cost-sharing arrangements were
clearly understood or implemented by both the community, partner organizations, and staff of CWSPU. In some
cases it is observed, on an anecdotal basis, that beneficiaries opting for basic service levels are cross-subsidizing
those who have chosen a hiigher service level like house connections. While the extent of this transfer may be
difficult to assess in a post-project evaluation, a more simplified and equitable structure for targeting subsidies under
the proposed follow-up project is recommended, by the mission and CWSPU.
D. Overall Assessment
18.    While the project objectives in physical tenns have exceeded the SAR estimates, sustainability needs of
schemes, specially the piped systems, remain to be addressed. Systems and institutions for community-based
planning and implementation of cost-effective water supply and sanitation were established. CWSPU was
established to directly implement rural schemes and to implement small town schemes with the assistance of the
NWSDB. A system of selecting and working with POs was developed and improved dynamically to incorporate
community demands.
19.    Economic Rate of Return: The mission conducted a preliminary analysis on the expected economic return
of the project that would feed into the economic evaluation for the ICR. For reasons of comparison, the approach
adopted for the analysis followed the principles of the economic analysis undertaken at appraisal, and was - similar
to the appraisal analysis - conducted in 1991 constant prices. The preliminary results suggest a slightly higher ERR
than the initial SAR predictions, confinning the mission's expectation, as significant unit cost savings could be
realized for the water supply schemes without compromising on the expected benefits (see paragraph 4 above). As a
result of these cost savings coverage could be increased by an additional population of about 350,000 (about 50
percent). Yet, the overall expected benefits arising from the time savings for water collection may be overstated,
since in some cases beneficiary households visited have not yet been able to receive sufficient water, mostly due to
inadequacies in the design of the water supply schemes. Follow-up consultation and re-designing is already ongoing
in some cases, in order to ensure that the expected benefits under the project are fully reaped. Notwithstanding this
anecdotal evidence, the preliminary sensitivity analysis suggests the findings to be robust.
E.     Next Steps
20.    Post-Proiect Strategy: One major weakness of the project is the institutional sustainability at the national,
district, and village levels. District and regional committees have been set up during project implementation, with no
clear mandate for continuity during the operational phase. An outline strategy for implementation and monitoring
post-project operations has been prepared by the CWSPU for the village schemes, and by the NWSDB for the small
town schemes. For the village schemes, a program for the rectification of problems and CBO strengthening is
included. A draft MOU has been prepared wlhich assigns responsibilities among three parties, the Divisional
Secretary (the regional ann of the central governnent), the Pradeshiya Sabha (the lowest level of local government)
and the Community Based Organization. An 'Operations Committee' will also be established comprising
representatives from these three parties and other relevant agencies (such as Health Services and Samurdhi). This



28
committee is expected to meet monthly to review and reach consensus on O&M performance based on identified
monitoring indicators, tariff revisions, and other policy matters.
21.    For the small towns, the NWSDB regional/district offices will undertake the responsibility of monitoring
post-project performance. Three model agreements for implementation in the small town scheme operations have
been introduced. Each model assigns responsibility for operating the system to one of three parties (CBO,
Pradeshiya Sabha, NWSDB). Representatives from each of the three parties will form an 'O&M Steering
Committee'. This committee will have similar functions as the Operations Committee mentioned above.
22.    CWSPU should take immediate steps to implement the proposed post-project strategy extensively in the
three districts covered and a comprehensive system of monitoring its effectiveness should be introduced
simultaneously. Short and long term action plans need to be prepared to address technical and management issues.
23.    Status of ICR Preparation: The mission noted with satisfaction, the considerable effort made by the
CWSPU in the preparation of base data for ICR preparation. CWSPU and NWSDB have prepared scheme-specific
physical and fmancial data on the water supply and sanitation components. Analyses of the data with respect to
project cost/household vis-a-vis cost ceilings for each type of technology has also been carried out. The unit has also
prepared a performance/capacity evaluation of the partner organizations involved in the current project. Data on the
training and hygiene education components have also been provided.
24.    In addition to the above, the mission noted that the following details are required:
(i)    Prograin Development: Reports on promotional activities, registration of POs and CBOs, and
development of systems and procedures for this phase;
(ii)    Hygiene Education: Reports on the hygiene education and training programs and their impact,
reasons for the deviation from the original proposed approach of utilizing the services of the Ministry of
Health, and post-project strategy for assessing the long-tenr efficacy of this component for promoting the
demand-driven approach;
(iii)   Training: Reports on the post-project strategy for assessing the effectiveness of the training
programs carried out and the overall benefits to the sub-sector;
(iv)    Technical Assistance: Detailed reports on resources provided by the Technical Suppoit Cell
(annually), and an assessment of their effectiveness during project implementation; Reports on subsequent
actions on completed studies and research; and
(v)    O&M: Data on the existing cash balances for the CBO accounts for operation and maintenance.
25.    The mission agreed that a draft ICR will be provided to the GOSL for review by early February, 1999 and
the GOSL would also provide its draft completion report to IDA at the same time.
26.    A proposed follow-up project is under preparation and, subject to outcome of the negotiations, may become
effective in calendar 1999.



29
Annex 1
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
IDA FINAL SUPERVISION[ICR PREPARATION MISSION (December 1998)
LIST OF PERSONS MET
Name                      Designation              Office
Hon. Indika Gunawardena   Minister                 Ministry of Housing & Urban
Development
Mr. V.K. Nanayakkara      Secretary                Ministry of Housing & Urban
Development
Mr. F. Mohideen          Director General          Dept. of External Resources
Ms. N. Madanayake        Director                  Dept. of External Resources
Mr. Lal Premanath         DGM, RWS           National Water Supply & Drainage Board
Mr. D.S.D. Jayasiriwardene AGM, RWS          National Water Supply & Drainage Board
Dr. D.U.L.A. De Silva     Dep. Dir.                Ministry of Health
Mr. M. Wickremage        Director                  Water Resources Secretariat
Ms. Myrtle Perera         Executive Dir.           Marga Institute
Mr. Halbach                                        GTZ
Mr. Chanaka de Silva                               Nitiya Associates Consultant (Legal)
Mr. Mangala Dias                                   Praja Navodaya Foundation
Ms. Manel Jayamanne       Program Officer          UNDP
Dr. Nyunt Nyunt Yi        Program Officer          UNICEF
Mr. S. Huda               Scientist                WHO
Officers of the CWSPU:
Mr. W. Piyasena                 Project Director
Mr. Susil Somasiri              Deputy Director, M&E and MIS
Mr. Nihal Rambukwella           Deputy Director CD
Mr. Kamal Pathmasiri            Regional. Director, Badulla
Ms. D.W.S. de Silva             Regional Director, Matara
Mr. K.S.C. Perera               Acting Regional Director, Ratnapura
Mr. Sunidha Senaratne           Consultant



30
Annex 2
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
IDA FINAL SUPERVISION/ICR PREPARATION MISSION (December 1998)
Achievement as of November 30, 1998
Description                        Badulla        Matara        Ratnapura          Total
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
IDA target*                                         274             291             285             850
Completed                                           263             258             245            766
Under Construction                                    11             33              40              84
In Construction Stage, but suspended due to lack      --                                             81
of funds
In Development Stage, but suspended due to lack       6                              25              31
of funds or other problems
Villages Covered                                    858             873           1,218           2,949
Villages Provided with Water Supply                 789             774             735           2298
No. of Beneficiaries                            270,031         220,084         396,540         886,655
IDA target*                                       16,687         13,178          15,135          45,000
Completed                                        20,467          18,400          14,477          53,344
Under Construction                                 4,948            429           5,862          11,239
SCHOOL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
IDA target*                                         220             300             230             750
Through POs                                                      _
Launched                                            165              86             158             409
On-going                                            151              63              68             282
Completed                                             14             23              90             127
Through "Samurdhi"           _   _         = =               _   _
Launched                                             45              62              84             191
On-going                                             35              53              41             129
Completed                                             10                             43              62
Through Education Department
Launched                                                            163                             163
On-going                                                             94                              94
Completed                                                            69                              69
Total
Launched                                            210             311             242             763
On-going                                             186            210             109             505
Completed                                            24             101             133             258
SMALL TOWN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
IDA Target*                                   _        3              4       _       5    |         12
Launched                                               3              4               5              12
Completed                                              2              2               2 O             6
Construction Ongoing                                   1              2               3    |6



31
Annex 3
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
IDA FINAL SUPERVISION/ICR PREPARATION MISSION (December 1998)
REPORT OF THE FIELD VISIT
The mission visited several village and small town water supply and sanitation schemes
in the districts of Badulla, Ratnapura and Matara. The mission members were accompanied by
the staff of the CWSP Unit, and National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB), and met
the communities, CBOs, Pradeshiya Sabhas (PS), and Provincial Council officers. The mission's
main findings are summarized in the tables below. The general issues identified by the mission
are:
*  Roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders: more clarity is required in the respective
roles of the CBO, the PS and the CWSPU/NWSDB.
*  Operation and maintentance: trained and adequately remunerated caretakers should be
employed to look after operation and maintenance of the schemes.
* Legal status of the CBO: legal recognition of the CBO would be required for CBO
ownership and management of assets, including effective enforcement of the CBO's rules
and regulations.



32
BADULLA DISTRICT
VILLAGES                                            SMALL TOWNS
Review Areas          Welanhinna                  Paramakankada                    Hali-Ela                Koslanda
______________  ____  (small town)     (small town)
Type of WS        Gravity Scheme, Dugwells  Gravity Scheme                    Gravity Scheme           Gravity Scheme
Schemes               . _.
Community           CBO comprised of 15       I I members of which 6 are women;* 90% of the households   * A tripartite agreement
Organization        members;                 a tripartite agreement on O&M      are participating in the  on O&M among the
first CBO responsible for   among the CBO, PS and           scheme, the rest 10%    CBO, PS and
implementation has been    CWSSP/NWSDB exists.             are supplied by the      CWSSP/NWSSB exists
replaced by a new CBO                                      Water Board,
fomned in July 1998; a                                     a tripartite agreement on
tripartite agreement on                                    O&M among the CBO,
O&M among the CBO,                                         PS and
PS and WSSP/NWSDB                                          CWSSP/NWSDB
exists.                                                     exists.
O&M                 The person trained for   The chainnan and the treasurer of the                       The PS is canying out
Arrangements        maintenance has left the    CBO assume the responsibility for                        the operation and
village to work in      O&M on a voluntary basis                                    maintenance of the
Colombo. The CBO has                                                                system (at the request of
appointed another                                                                  the CBO).
worker who is not
trained and so the simple
plumbing repairs
required at the stand-post
are not done.
CBO pays the worker.
Contributions to    O&M accounts have        O&M accounts have bcen established   The Community has      The Community has
Investment and      been established and     and contributions deposited in a bank    made contribution to the  nmade contribution to the
O&M                 contributions deposited  account.                           scheme in kind and       scheme in kind and
in a bank account,                                         cash.                    cash.
Sanitation          Household latrines have   Household  latrines  have  been
been constructed, and are   constructed, and are being used.
being used.
Issues              More clarity on the      More clarity on the division of    The CBO does not have  * The PS's operation of
division of             responsibilities between CBO, PS    funds to pay for labor to   the slow sand filtration
responsibilities between    and CWSPU/NWSDB is needed       complete the works:     plant could be
CBO, PS and                                                 bridge crossing, laying  improved: the mission
CWSPU/NWSDB is                                             transmission mains and    had doubts as to whether
needed                                                      completing the          regular monitoring of
construction of the     the water quality was
roughing filters. It is  being carried out;
unlikely that the works    whether the water was
could be completed in   being chlorinated.
time for material
provided under the
._________________  .____ _____ _____ __ _   _credit not to  deteriorate.



MATARA DISTRICT
VILLAGES                                                                        SMALL TOWNS
Review Ares               Pagoda                              Kotapola North                              Ifakiylyadhuwa                                  Pasgoda
(small town)
Type of WS         Gravity Scheme              Gravity Scheme                                      Gravity Scheme                         Piped Pumping Scheme
Schemes
Community             CBO comprises 350        * CBO has 320 members, and comprises ofthe president,  CBO comprises of a chairman, a      * 694 ofthe 781 families living in the area have
Organization          members that pay a          a treasurer, a secretary (female) and 24 animators (9 of  treasurer, a secretary and 16 animators to    obtained CBO membership.
membership fee of Rs.      which are women).                                   collect O&M fees.                    * For families wanting to participate in the scheme,
25/year.                    Members pay a monthly fee of Rs. 5.                Members pay a monthly fee of SLR 2.   the CBO has issued consent letters, where the
* CBO conducts community meetings on a    households have to agree in writing on
monthly basis.                        contributions.
An amendment to the CBO constitution
is currently under way.
O&M Arrangements    There are 4 unpaid            CBO has 2 caretakers (one is an assistant) that work  There is one caretaker, assisted by  * The CBO is in charge for carrying out operation
caretakers. In the fiiture,  about I to 2 days per week. They are compensated with  household helpers, that does      and maintenance.
they are expected to receive    Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500 respectively.            maintenance on an ad hoc basis. The
a notional compensation of                                                     caretaker is currently unpaid, but
Rs. 500/month.                                                                 remuneration of Rs. 500 is considered
starting January.
Contributions to      CBO has a cash balance of   The monthly O&M fee is Rs. 15 per household, and has    Initially, a monthly fee of Rs.   The CBO holds a balance of Rs. 374,157 in its
Investment and        Rs. 60,000 in their account  been increased from an initial Rs. 10.            Shousehold was charged for O&M, but    savings account, which would be used to complete
O&M                * households have contributed    The cash balance on the O&M account is Rs. 107,000.  has been increased to Rs. 15.      outstanding works.
Ra. 1 5/month.                                                               * The CBO holds about Rs. 33,980 on the  Community's contribution to the schene has been 
savings account and Rs. 8,200 in cash.  low (I I percent), deviating significantly from the
initial estimate of 46 percent.
For households that could not afford connection,
the CBO has arranged Bank loans.
Sanitation            116 household latrines have    65 household latrines have been constructed.    87 households have been provided with
been constructed, to which  The CBO watned to establish a revolving fund for   a latrine. Demand for additional latrines
the project contributed SLR  sanitation, where households deposit SLR 250 to   could not be met.
256,750 and the community    become eligible for receiving funds in three installments.
SLR. 348,000.              Loan recovery information was not available.
Issues                                            Water pressure is low upstream.                    Water pressure is low in the hills, and  Many of the water meters provided by the
some households don't receive water.  NWSDB installed don't work.
CBO considers an additional line for
households uphill.



34
RATNAPURA DISTRICT
VILLAGES
Kadangoda Village     Ekencligoda Village    Sudagala Village
Review Areas       Erapola Village
Type of WS         Gravity scheme:        Gravity scheme        Gravity scheme        Gravity scheme
Schemes            175 yard taps and      46 yard taps          completed in 1998      449 House
27 stand posts Dug    16 stand posts        May 249 yard taps      connections
wells- 3
Community          CBO comprises          CBO has a             CBO has a             CBO has a
Organization       260 members           membership of 143      membership of 294     membership of 449.
Originally members    Initiated in 1993     with 17 leaders as a
attended meetings.                          core group.
Now only the
leaders attend.
O&M                Caretaker trained      Caretaker trained     Caretaker trained     Caretaker trained
Arrangements       O&M fund              but needs further      Operator / caretaker  O&M fund
operational           training for          is paid Rs 500/- per   operational.
*  Used Rs 11,000/-       enhancing             month.
for augmenting        capacities.            O&M fund
supply of water                             operational
source.
* Current amount in
O&M fund Rs
5000/-
Contributions to   Members pay Rs 5/-    Members pay Rs         Members pay           Membership fee Rs
Investment and     as membership fee      10/- as membership    membership fee of     5/- per month.
O&M                per month.            fee and Rs 5/- for     Rs 10/- per montlh.
maintenance (total  *  About 130 families
Rs 15/- per month)    pay up on time.
Sanitation         Informnation not      Household Latrines     47 Household          Phase 1 - 29 latrines
obtained.             constructed and in    latrines provided.     provided.
use                   Selection by the      Phase 2 - 57 latrines
leaders all deserving  provided
_ ____________________    people.
Issues             Pipe lines were        Pradeshiya Sabha      Three people had
designed for stand    was PO from 1993      illegal connections.
posts. Later the      to 95. It did not     It was regularized
CBO decided on        function efficiently  by getting them to
Yard taps. Water      and therefore         pay Rs 5,000/- each
distribution network  directly              for the connections
is under designed?    implemented by        Less participation a
*  Pradeshiya Sabha       district office.      problem (about 100
offered to take over  *  Teclnical          people participated)
the scheme but        backstopping          according to CBO
CBO has refused.      needed.



35
Annex 4
IDA Final Supervision/ICR Preparation Mission
December 3-18, 1998
LIST OF AGREED ACTIONS
I.   CWSPU will provide IDA a detailed repott  January 29, 1999
on recovery of Advances from Partner
Organizations (POs)
2.   CWSPU agreed to submit to IDA complete   January 29, 1999
documentation for advanced SLR 65 million
3.   Draft ICR will be provided to the GOSL for  February 5,1999
review
4.    GOSL to provide draft completion report to  February 5, 1999
IDA



36
Annex 5
Strategies to Address the Issues in Small Towns
District    Small Town               Issues                             Strategies
Ratnapura    Kuruwita       1  Low reliability of the    a.  To assess the water yield per day for a selected
Intake Arrangement.       period to ascertain the safe yield.
b.  To increase the installed capacity, if required,
from the outcome of (a) above.
c.  To educate the CBO on the technology used and
the facilities provided.
d.  To arrange for a preventive maintenance and
service agreement for the intake arrangement.
2  Office bearers of CBO   a.  To promote transparency of operation.
working as employees.  b.  To Include in the CBO constitution relevant
clauses preventing such practices.
c.  O&M steering committee meetings to be
regularized and institutionalized.
Kalawana       1  Less than anticipated    a.  To train and guide CBOs for promotional
service connections.      campaign to increase the service connections.
Pallebedda     I  Low reliability of the    a.  To jointly assess the water yields per day for a
Intake Technology.        selected period to ascertain the safe yield.
b.  To increase the installed capacity, if required,
from the outcome of (a) above.
c.  To educate the CBO on the technology used and
the facilities provided.
d.  To arrange for a preventive maintenance and
service agreement for the intake arrangement.
e.  To promote a continuous program to monitor
water quality, especially color and turbidity.
Arakawa &      I  Assurance a water      a.  To educate the CBO regarding the technology and
Calotte        .  quality/quantity          intake arrangements.
b.  To arrange continuous monitoring of water
c.  quality/quantity.
To train the CBO to record the relevant data in the
d.  reporting formats and monitor them.
Arrange back up support from NWS&DB
I___  RegionaVDistrict setup.



37
Strategies to Address the Issues in Small Towns (Continued)
District Small          Issues                Strategies
Town
Matara   Kirin/       1 Assurance a water   a  To educate the CBO regarding the technology and
Puhulwella   . quality/quantity   .  intake arrangements.
b To arrange continuous monitoring of water
. quality/quantity.
c To train the CBO to record the relevant data in the
. reporting formats and monitor them.
d Back up support from NWS&DB Regional/District set
. up.
Hakmana      I Assurance a water   a  To educate the CBO regarding the technology and
quality/quantity  .  intake arrangements.
b To arrange for continuous monitoring of water
. quality/quantity.
c To train the CBO to record the relevant data in the
. reporting formats and monitor them.
Back up support from NWS&DB RegionalDistrict
d setup.
2 Lack of skills for    a  To provide training to operators and TOs and other
Operation and     .  selected employees for proper O&M.
Maintenance of       Display of instructions for O&M at the site.
HRF.              b  To arrange for refresher training programme and link
. with relevant agencies/institution.
Kekanadura  1 Assurance a water   a  To educate the CBO regarding the technology and
quality/Quantity  .  intake arrangements.
b To arrange for continuous monitoring of water
. quality/quantity.
c To train the CBO to record the relevant data in the
. reporting formats and monitor them.
d  Back up support from NWS&DB RegionaVDistrict
. setup.
2 Lack of skills for    a  To provide training to operators and TOs and selected
Operation of SSF.   .  additional employees for proper O&M.
Display of instructions for O&M at the site.



Appendix C
SRI LANKA
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
OPERATION PLAN
PRESENT OR FUTURE ACTION                                           PERFORMANCE                      TARGET DATE
INDICATOR                        (AGENCY)
1. O&M consolidation of Salil Towvs Water Supply Scihemes in Ratnapura District (Kuruwita, Kalwana,  Improvenwut  of  water  supply
Pallebedda, Rakwana, Kaltola);  watara District (Kiritda-Puhulweila, Hakrnana, Kekaiadura); Badulla District facilities
(Passara, Koslan,da Hlaliela)
(a) Assess installed capacity; measure safe yields; assess performance and improve intake anid filter arrangements;  Assurance   of   adequacy   of  July 1999
provide water quality monitoring arrangements; create linkages with responsible institutions to assure protection of  technology requirements  (NWSDB)
water source catcmunents
(b) Train and guide CBO on promotional campaign; educate CBOs on technology options, and facilities provided; train  Assurance  of sustainability  and  July 1999
CBOs on operation, maintenance and management of completed assets; provide training to operators and TO's and  building social capital  (NWSDB)
other selected personnel in O&M; develop and display O&M instructions at site
(c) Prepare and adapt coordination mechanism between PS and CBOs; reguiarize and institutionalize O&M steering  Participatory development  July 1999
committee Meetings                                                                                                                   (NWSDB)
2. A'ational Policyfor Rutral Wlater Supply and Sanitatioen                                         Sector policyfranuework
(a) Prepare draft policy, and submit for Parliamentary approval                                     National consensus                August 1999
___________________________________________________._______________________________________                           (Sector Facilitation Unit)
3. Legal RecogRnitioin of CBOs                                                                      Social capital development
(a) Develop consensus for delegation of authority vested with Local Authorities to CBOs to manage and operate water  Empowerment of CBOs  January 1999
systems   __-                                                                                                                        (CWSPU)                    co
(b) Introduce enabling legislation, ensure consistency in CBO constitutions; convert CBOs to legal entities  CBOs converted to legal entities  December 2000
(CWSPU)
4. Development of CBOs -1illiage Water Supply Systenms                                               Couwnumnity capacity building_
(a) provide tariff setting and financial management guidelines                                      Improved CBO management           February 1999
(b) Form CBO apex organization; prepare and launch proposals for diversifying activities            Community   development   and  Deember 1999
strengthened CBOs                (CWSPU/CBOs)
S. Strengthening of Other StakelaoWders                                                             Capacity building
(a) Train sector-specific units under District Secretaries and Local Authorities and establish monitoring committees at Capacity building at village level  August 1999
the village level comprising representatives from Divisional Secretariat, PS, CBO and other peoples organizations                    (CWSPU/LAs)
(b) Establish separate units under Provincial Councils to facilitate sustainability of facilities provided  Capacity  building  in  Provincial  December 1999
Councils                        (CWSPU/Prov.
Councils)
(c) Promote private sector participation in O&M activities                                          Partnership building with private  December 2000
.__________________________________ __   sector                   (CWSPU/Private Sector)
6. Expansion of Water Supply and Sanitation Coverage                                                Sector Development
(a) Prepare and secure donor funding for follow-on projects                                         Expansion of coverage             July 1999 (continuing)
.___________________          _  (CW SPU)



39
Appendix D
SRI LANKA'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT (Credit 2442-CE)
Prepared by Community Water Supply & Sanitaton Project Unit, Ministry of Housing &
Urban Development (January 1999)
SECTION 1- INTRODUCTION
1.1    Background.   The Community Water Supply &  Sanitation Project (CWSSP)
implemented by the Government of Sri Lanka under the IDA Credit 2442 CE, with the explicit
objective of improving the quality of life through the provision of pure and adequate drinking
water & sanitation facilities to the rural poor in three districts came to a closure in December
1998.This report is an evaluation of the project's execution and initial operations, costs and
benefits, Bank's and GOSL's performance on their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were achieved.
1. 2   Project Objectives. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report of World Bank (Nov. 1992),
the objectives of the CWSSP were to: (a) develop systems and institutions for community-based
planning, implementation, operation & maintenance of cost effective and sustainable water
supply & sanitation; (b) implement community-based water supply & sanitation schemes in rural
areas and small towns in Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura Districts; and (c) prepare a follow-up
project, which will apply the community-based approach, to be developed and tested during
CWSSP, to complete the coverage in the above districts and to extend this approach to the rest of
the country.
The immediate objectives of the project were to: (i) provide water supply facilities to
650,000 people living in 2,700 villages, and additionally to 17 small towns; (ii) assist 3,800
villages to construct satisfactory sanitation facilities; and (iii) assist 650 rural schools to have
satisfactory water supply and sanitation facilities in the Districts of Ratnapura, Matara & Badulla.
Additionally, the project was expected to pioneer the community-based demand driven approach
to be followed by sector projects funded by other donors, and an agreement was reached during
credit negotiations that the policies, concepts and procedures adopted by the CWSSP would apply
to other projects undertaken by GOSL with other donors, to ensure consistency.
1.3   Project Description. The CWSSP was designed in 1992 to address the rural water
supply & sanitation issues in a novel and innovative way through a process of active beneficiary
participation in planning construction, operating and managing the facilities.
1.3.1  Project Partners. CWSSP was implemented over a period of six years (from Feb 1993
to December 1998) by the Community Water Supply & Sanitation Project Unit (CWSPU)
established under the Ministry of Housing & Urban Development. Project preparation was carried
out over the period from May 1992 to Feb 1993. The project was implemented in several stages
of implementation; the pilot implementation stages, small scale. Implementation stages and large-
scale implementation stages. This was due to the need of gaining experience and learning lessons,
with a view to improve the implementation procedures which have not been tested earlier.
The project was implemented through intermediary organizations called Partner
Organizations in partnership with Community Based Organizations (CBOs). Different Partner



40
Organizations were entrusted different types of sub projects: (i) village water supply-NGOs,
cooperative societies or Pradeshiya Sabhas; (ii) small towns water supply and sanitation-NGOs,
and local authorities through the NWSDB; (iii) school water supply and sanitation-Divisional
Secretaries or Education Department of Sri Lanka; and (iv) directly by community-based
organizations
Community Based Organizations (CBOs) comprising members of the beneficiary
communities actively worked with the Partner Organizations in the village and small town sub
programmes. In the case of schools, School Development Societies comprising parents and
teachers played the role of the CBO.
1.3.2  CWSSP is the first ever concerted effort initiated in addressing rural water supply and
sanitation issues in Sri Lanka in a broader perspective; (ii) the project was implemented using a
demand-based approach; (iii) initiatives were taken by the user communities and they were
actively involved in all phases of the project (Planning, Construction and Consolidation); (iv)
GOSL played the role of a facilitator in the process including setting up national policies,
procedures and strategies, while providing financial and technical support; (v) the project was
implemented through a strong partnership arrangement among the Governrment, User
Communities represented by the CBO and the Partner Organizations; (vi) during the planning
process, a CBO was formed within a sub project area (Grama Niladhari Division) to undertake
the overall responsibility of the project planning and implementation management; (vii) a
minimum of 20% contribution of construction cost was expected from the user communities; and
(viii) the full responsibility of the operation and maintenance of the facilities is with the CBO.
SECTION 2 - PROJECT DESIGN AND APPRAISAL
2.1    THE PROCESS. The implementation process mainly comprises of 2 types of activities.
They are: (i) initial activities, and (ii) village level activities
2.1.1  Initial Activities.  Initial activities at the national and district level include the pre
qualification of POs based on agreed selection criteria, conducting awareness campaigns for the
public, selection of villages based on an agreed criteria, setting up of monitoring & supervision
procedures and payment procedures and establishing coordinating mechanisms at appropriate
levels. At village level, the initial activities begin with a self-assessment of the status of water
supply and sanitation by the communities. This is followed by a request submitted to the project
unit for assistance. The project unit having justified the request based on a set of criteria, assigns
a pre qualified PO with whom an agreement is reached for provision of services to the selected
community throughout the sub project cycle.
2.1.2  Village Level Activities. The sub project cycle in the village/small town consists of 3 sub
phases namely development phase, construction phase and consolidation phase. PO is expected to
facilitate the beneficiary community through out the sub project cycle.
Some of the key activities performed in each phase are given below;
Planning Phase. (i) mobilization of the communities and community action. (ii)
formation & registration of the CBO; (iii) hygiene education; (iv) identification of technology
options for water supply and selection of the most suitable option; (v) preparation of the project
proposal consisting of detailed designs and cost estimates; and (vi) preparation of the sanitation
proposal



41
Pre Construction Phase.  (i)_approval of the project proposal; (ii) selection of the
caretaker; (iii) mobilization of funds for cash contribution (if any); (iv) signing of construction
agreement, among PO, CBO, CWSPU; and (v) organizing O&M fund
Construction Phase. (i) material procurement; (ii) construction of water supply systems;
(iii) on the job training to caretakers; (iv) construction of latrines; (v) hygiene education activities;
(vi) testing & commissioning of the scheme; (vii) preparation of completion report; (viii)
preparation of "as built drawings" of the scheme constructed; and (ix) preparation of the O&M
plan of the scheme
Consolidation Phase. (i) signing of an agreement between CBO & CWSSP demarcating
the responsibilities of both parties with regard to consolidation activities, to be effective until 31
December 1998; (ii) rectification of social and technical defects (if any); (iii) routine O&M; (iv)
conflict resolution; (iv) caretaker training on long term O&M; (v) financial management training
to CBOs; and (vi) signing a memorandum of understanding between CBO/Pradeshiya Sabha
(Local Authority) & the Divisional Secretary (to represent the Government) to ensure efficient
functioning of the schemes and their sustainability.
Project Activities of a Typical CWSSP Village Scheme
N  Activity/      Period in Months
o Phase
2    4     6      8     10    12   14   16    18   20  22    23    26   28
1Community
Developmnent   ;                                                                    _
and Phinming        ~     .-
Phase
2  Pre-construction                .
Stage
3  Construction of                                    
Water Supply
4  Consolidation   |    i          r
5  Construction of            |                    : E
LAtrines
6  Hygiene
Education
2.2    Components of the Project. The components of the project were as follows: (i)
programme development; (ii) water supply; (iii) sanitation; (iv) hygiene education; (v) training,
research and studies; (vi) project management; and (vii) technical assistance.
2.3    Appraisal of the Project Design. (i) The objective of the project was in agreement with the
overall objectives of the GOSL, and the selected districts were as per the priority assigned by the
GOSL; (ii) The size and the scope of the investments proposed, in consideration of the pilot nature of
the project and the time period allocated, could be considered as suitable. However, when
considering the requests for the facilities still being received from communities of the three districts,
it is obvious that the total demand of the project area is not fully addressed; (iii) The project design
was based on community-centred, community-managed and community-owned concept creating a
genuine sense of ownership, and thereby building a conducive environment for the beneficiary



42
communities to undertake entire responsibility of O&M. This is one of the major deviations from the
conventional pattern of project implementation giving rise to new thinking; (iv) The involvement and
the contribution of the Partner Organisations (PO) was expected at a high level, with the presumption
that the capacity and competence of them were adequate. However, it was found that the capacity of
the POs, especially in technical aspects was inadequate. This has resulted in a greater involvement of
the CWSPU in implementation process, forcing the CWSPU to increase its staff and entrust heavy
workload on them.
SECTION 3 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS AND EXPERIENCE
3.1    Programme Development. This component covered the cost of publicity in the project,
assessment of Partner Organisations, registration of Community Based Organisations and payments
to Partner Organisations for their services throughout the project cycle. Under this component the
project unit gave a vast publicity on the project through mass media as well as through other ways
which created a huge demand for facilities. Nearly 80 Partner Organisations worked with the project
and their performances were assessed periodically. Contracts were terminated with a few POs on
poor performance. 959 CBOs had been registered with CWSPU by end of December, '98. A sum of
Rs. 205.48 Million, which is 10% of the total cost was spent on programme development.
3.2    Water Supply. The project provided potable water supply facilities to nearly one million
people living in 2,541 villages (within 847 GNDs) and tol2 small towns. The population served
has exceeded the original target which was 650,000 people. A sum of Rs. 1272.69 Million was
spent for water supply construction which is 62% of the total expenditure.
3.2.1  Following are the different technology options used in water supply for above population: (i)
protected dug wells (shared by 4-6 families); (ii) tube wells; (iii) gravity supplies; (iv) pumped
supplies; (v) extensions from existing water supply systems; and (vi) rain water harvesting systems
The majority of the beneficiaries have selected protected dug wells (shared) and gravity
supplies and few have selected the pumped supply option, tube wells and extensions from
existing systems. Household rainwater tanks was a popular option in the Badulla district.
The Table 1 presents the technology options provided under the project. CWSSP
promoted innovative technologies such as construction of ferro cement tanks instead of reinforced
concrete tanks and construction of dug wells with rope pumps, which had proven to be very cost
effective. Construction of water supply schemes in the villages had been done through a contract
signed between PO, CBO and the CWSPU.
3.2.2  Small Town Water Supply.  In the case of small towns, the responsibility of
implementation was given to the National Water Supply & Drainage Board (NWSDB). The
NWSDB selected the deserving small towns in each district in consultation with CWSPU based on
an agreed selection criterion, after considering the requests from the communities and district level
authorities. The sources were identified by the NWSDB, followed by source investigations. After
confirmation of the technical feasibility, the POs were selected from a list obtained from the CWSPU
who are operating in a particular district. The technical designs of the schemes were done by the
NWSDB. Construction of scheme was done by CBOs and the Contractors. The CBO was given the
opportunity to construct components which they are capable of, on agreed payment basis. The agreed
community contribution was provided by the community by way of labour and cash. The target was
12 schemes, and 10 were completed by the end of the project period, while the construction of the
other two are being completed by the NWSDB.



43
3.2.3  Schools Water Supply. The provision of water supply facilities to schools was made with
the co-operation of School Development Societies, after selecting the schools with the concurrence
of the Departnent of Education. Provision of water supply facilities to 704 schools was covered
under this component. (This is against a target of 650 schools).
3.3    Sanitation. Under the sanitation component the project provided funds in the form of a
grant to eligible beneficiaries through CBO's based on a proposal submitted by the CBO. Under this
component individuals in communities have constructed 64,135 latrines by end of December 1998.
(This is against a target of 45,000 latrines). The majority of the households had constructed water
sealed single pit latrines. A sum of Rs. 143.28 Million had been spent for sanitation, which is 7% of
the total expenditure. Provision of sanitation facilities to 704 schools was also covered under this
component.
3.4    Hygiene Education. With the objective of educating the beneficiaries on the expected
health benefits from the project, CWSSP attempted through its hygiene education component to
impart the knowledge on hygiene practices using various training techniques. A self-evaluation
exercise by households themselves was done on a pilot basis with the guidance of CWSPU. This
consisted of filling a questionnaire and then updating the same after a period of 6 months, thus
making them realise the effect of poor water supply and sanitation on their health. A sum of Rs. 5.7
Million has been spent on hygiene education component which is nearly 0.3% of the total project
cost.
3.5    Training, Research and Studies. The project provided extensive training for PO Staff, on
mobilization as well as on technical aspects. Several training programmes were held for CBOs on
financial management and caretakers' role and also selected CBO members were trained on operation
& maintenance of the facilities constructed. Several orientation training programmes were conducted
for the public servants involved with the project, CWSPU staff, (including overseas training) and
suppliers of major construction materials such as PVC Pipes, GI Pipes & cement. 11
studies/research activities were also carried out under this component. A sum of Rs. 28.03 Million,
which is equivalent to 1.5% of the total cost, was spent on training, research & studies.
3.6    Project Management.  The Project Management component of CWSSP has largely
exceeded its original allocation due to under estiration of staff required for CWSPU. Furthermore,
due to the lack of technical capacity of Non Governmental Organisations in the country (Majority
of the PO's of CWSSP were NGO's) CWSPU was compelled to provide additional technical inputs
during the implementation of the project. A sum of Rs. 242.56 Million which is equivalent to 12% of
the total cost has been spent for project management.
3.7    Technical Assistance. Under this component CWSPU established a Technical Support Cell
to advise and guide the Project Unit on all aspects of its operation. A sum of Rs. 140.71 Million (7%
oftotal cost) was spent for the Technical Support Cell. The cost of preparation of the first part of the
project proposal, - amounting to Rs. 4.91 Million - for the follow up project, namely Community &
Private Sector Water Supply & Sanitation Project (CPSWSSP), was met by the additional funds
provided by the GOSL.
3.8    Problems Faced by the Project and Contributory Factors. The project, on its way
towards completion, faced several problems due to various reasons, particularly due to the pilot
nature of the project. But the overall implementation of the project has been fairly satisfactory
since the project management was able to overcome a variety of problems and complete the
project on the date due for closure, exceeding the set original targets and completely disbursing
the IDA credit. Some of the major problems faced by the project are presented below: (i) lack of past
experience of the partners as this was the first ever effort to address the issues of rural water supply



44
and sanitation sector using this novel and innovative concept; (ii) cost overrun due to huge demand
for facilities than expected; (iii) over estimation of the capacity of the NGO's (especially the technical
capacity); (iv) all the partners including the CWSPU were new to the 'partnership' approach; (v) lack
of adequate monitoring and evaluation systems; (vi) lack of proper management information system
and financial information system; (vii) delays due to weather conditions; (viii) size of sub projects
were larger than anticipated in ansy instances giving rise to higher costs and complications in
implementation; (ix) escalation of cost; and (x) devaluation of local currency.
SECTION 4 - PROJECT RESULTS AND SUSTAINABILITY
Despite the inherent weaknesses of the project (which is common in projects of this nature)
and the implementation constraints mentioned above, the project successfully achieved its original
objectives exceeding the targets creating a great impact on the Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Sector, some of which are mentioned below:
In Sri Lanka up to year 1992 the Government and the Public Agencies were the direct
providers of water supply facilities adopting a supply driven approach. CWSSP was the first ever
effort made on changing this conventional approach making the government a facilitator rather
than a direct supplier, allowing the beneficiaries to play the main role. CWSSP proved this as a
successful way of reaching the unserved rural poor in this country ensuring the sustainability of
facilities and led the government to prepare a new policy on 'Rural water Supply and Sanitation'
based on the participatory approach tested by the CWSPU.
It is clearly evident that the project had been able to mobilize the ultimate beneficiaries
through PO's to change their attitudes, taking them away from the welfare notion leading to
dependency syndrome. A classic example of this is the average beneficiary contribution towards
the capital cost of construction of w/s systems, amounting to 32% exceeding the original
expectation of 20%.
The project has contributed significantly towards improved social status, better health,
time saving in fetching water, energy savings, short term employment, long term employment and
creating assets. Water supply has resulted in increased land values as well. The imparting of
technical knowledge was quite considerable at the village level. The project has largely
contributed to CBO development through the following: (i) initiating action on providing legal
authority to CBO's; (ii) capacity building of CBOs; linking CBO's to main stream of development
and administration; (iii) facilitating the formation of apex organizations; and (iv) facilitating the
formation of co-ordination committee; (iv) the project has introduced new technologies to the
sector and popularised them as feasible and affordable options. Ferro cement structures, rain water
harvesting and rope pumps are the prominent among them, (v) a vast improvement and
strengthening has taken place in the NGO sector due to the project activities. The number of
NGOs involved in the sector activities has increased many fold, and their management capabilities
and skills have been greatly enhanced. The development of human resources in the sector has been
very high, through the skill development of the employees of CWSPU, POs and CBOs. This has
benefited other sector projects, and also created employment opportunities for many.
CWSSP has been an 'eye opener' for the sector and having observed the success of
CWSSP. Donors other than IDA have expressed their willingness to assist Sri Lanka in similar
projects. As a result, Sri Lanka was fortunate to get assistance from the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) to implement a rural water supply and sanitation project adopting the CWSSP concepts and
methodology in 6 districts of Sri Lanka, which has commenced in February 1999. Further, the
GOSL is in the process of preparing an implementation plan for the follow up project of CWSSP



45
which will be implemented in 9 districts of Sri Lanka. The prospects of the sustainability of
completed sub projects have been greatly enhanced due to the sense of ownership created among
the beneficiary communities.
SECTION 5 - LESSONS LEARNED
Being a pilot project started without any previous experience of similar nature, the
lessons learned were very valuable. Throughout the project period, these were continually used
for the evolution of policies, procedures and process, which were used in subsequent
implementation. Some of the important lessons are briefly described below;
5.1    Community Based organizations (CBOs). (i) Communities have shown their willingness
to contribute substantially to water supply and sanitation development. There are communities who
are willing to pay even more than 30% of the capital costs involved, expecting a higher level of
service. A new cost sharing formula has been developed based on this, for the proposed follow up
project. However, it was also evident that the priority should still be focussed to cater to the most
needy; (ii) Generally, communities are often interested to build services that match their needs and
aspirations.  Continuous improvements on technological packages that meet the needs of
communities and individuals is essential to offer them an improved service; (iii) The legal status of
CBOs to own and take care of the project they constructed has to be clarified. If so needed, existing
laws may have to be amended to enhance the development of a broader civil society.
Simultaneously, the right to abstract water needs to be clearly spelled out in future legal enactment,
and the right of a CBO to own a water source needs to be laid down by Act. Based on this lesson,
actions are being taken to prepare a document for upgrading the status of the CBOs and propose a
mechanism by which statutory recognition can be given to CBOs; (iv) Instead of organizing new
CBOs, attention should be given to make use of the existing, active and accepted village
organizations to take up the project responsibilities in the fonn of a CBO; (v) Attention has to be
given to the strengthening of CBOs by providing external support to become a productive
organization while linking them with existing mainstream of development in order to ensure the
long-term sustainability of the facilities provided; (vi) Entrusting more responsibility and delegation
of more authority to CBOs is vital in establishing a sense of strong ownership.
5.2  Partner Organizations (POs). (i) The POs were lacking the skills and ability in long term
planning, technical aspects and in the overall project management aspects. Thus skill development
of PO staff was crucial at the beginning of the project; (ii) However, it is evident that obtaining
inputs even from competent POs for different components of the project should be based on
speciality they possess. This fact was the basis to introduce the "unbundling the process" in the
proposed follow up project; (iii) Selection of POs should be done carefully by adhering to the laid
down selection criteria and sub project implementation contracts should be executed effectively, so
that optimum retums are achieved; (iv) Based on this lesson, the selection of POs in the proposed
follow up project will be on competitive bidding basis, with due attention paid to the pre
qualification of suitable POs and quality of output; (v) The payments to POs should be based on
their outputs, for which the indicators should be developed. This aspect is included in the proposed
follow up project, by introducing a "measure and pay" system; and (vi) Based on the lessons
learned, involvement of CBOs is essential in certifying the payments and quality assurance of the
outputs produced by the POs.
5.3  Institutional Aspects. (i) A well defined rural water supply policy framework is required;
(ii) Links should be established from the inception among the CBOs, local authorities and also the
general administrative set up of the area in order to facilitate effective management of Operation &
Maintenance of the schemes, thereby ensuring the sustainability; (iii) Skill development at



46
appropriate levels is important. The training of care takers at CBO level and training of Technical
Officers in PS and Divisional Secretary levels are identified as essential; (iv) A sound constitution
should be available for the CBOs in order to execute their functions more effectively; (v) The final
draft of a model constitution is already completed; (vi) Involvement of women in the process of
decision making is found very effective; (vi) Diversifying the activities of CBOs in order to
transform the CBO into a productive organization is essential for the sustainability of the
organization; (vii) More effective strategies should be developed to ensure active participation of
the beneficiaries; and (viii) The dissemination of information on best practices experienced by one
project should be encouraged, so that it would be extremely useful for the development of Water
Supply and Sanitation sector.
5.4   Water Supply and Sanitation. (i) Technical soundness of the facilities provided is a crucial
factor contributing to the sustainability of facilities; (ii) This fact has been given due recognition in
the proposed follow up project, by making it the responsibility of the Partner. In order to ensure this,
rectification of defects has been made a condition for final payment; (iii) Consolidation activities
within a community should be given the due consideration to make the facilities sustainable. The
activities should commence at an early stage of the sub project implementation; The involvement of
the local private sector is important in all phases of the project, including in O&M, providing the
opportunities to the communities for easy access to technical assistance at competitive prices; (iv)
Demand for water and sanitation facilities could be created by making the people realise the
consequences of the absence of facilities adequately; (v) Construction cost can be reduced
considerably, when the beneficiaries themselves are involved in construction using locally available
resources and knowledge; (vi) Dependence on external financial assistance can be minimised once a
genuine need is recognised by the people; (vii) Possession of a new latrine enhances the self-esteem
and social acceptability; and (vii) Hygiene education can contribute to establish a better maintenance
culture.
5.5   Project Management. (i) Effective monitoring system, which closely couples physical and
financial progress is essential from the commencement of the project, at all levels. This will ensure
the anticipated progress of the project and transparency of activities, and minimises the possibilities
of any malpractice; (ii) Due to the high demand for the experienced and qualified personnel in the
sector, the conditions for employees and POs should be attractive, in order to get the competent
personnel, which is a vital ingredient for the success of the project.
SECTION 6 - CONCLUSION
In conclusion it may be said that the project had both strengths and weaknesses in the design
as well as in implementation, which would have been unavoidable in a pilot effort of this nature in
providing certain basic services to the most deserving sections of a society for the first time.
However with the experience gained and the lessons learnt through this innovative approach
GOSL/CWSPU is confident that the proposed follow up project (CPSWSSP) can be implemented
more successfully.



47
Appendix E
SRI LANKA'S POST PROJECT ACTIVITIES
FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY OF FACILITIES PROVIDED
BACKGROUND
Since 1992, CWSSP has provided Water Supply & Sanitation Facilities to 2493 villages in 847
Grarna Niladhari Division's (GND's), 10 Small Towns and 704 Schools in Ratnapura, Badulla and
Matara Districts. The following table presents a profile of water supply technologies used in the
project and the percentage of households served by each technology.
`.Water Supply Technology.                % of the H/H Served
Gravity Water Supply                                   60%
Extension from NWSDB Schemes                           1.9%
Pumping Schemes                                        2.7%
Dug Wells                                              28.2%
Tube Wells                                             2.7%
Rain Water Harvesting                                  3.2%
Spring Boxes                                           1.3%
Total                                 100
In the case of sanitation, the technology used is off set pit latrines, of which 92% has been new
constructions and 8% rehabilitation.
In order to address the issue of long term sustainability, which is one of the main objectives of the
CWSSP, the project has already taken several steps, and certain other steps are proposed to be
taken, based on the lessons learnt.
SECTION 1- VILLAGE SUB PROJECTS
The actions already taken, and actions proposed are given below.
ACTION TAKEN TO DATE:
(i) Status Survey:
(a) Training modules and guidelines have been prepared to train trainers at district
level and through them to train CBO office bearers on "Status Survey" in order to assess
the status of completed projects. The main objective behind this exercise is to identify the
social and technical defects and take remedial measures. Identified issues to be categorized
as minor defects and larger defects. This infornation should be discussed and Action Plan
should be prepared at a community meeting with assistance of PO and CWSPU
representatives. Minor defects are to be handled by CBO itself while others to be brought
to the notice of the external agencies (PO, CWSPU etc.) for required assistance. (b) Status
Survey exercise has been tested in Badulla district and Technical Survey has been tested in
Ratnapura District. These are anticipated to be introduced in other districts too. The
technical issues identified through this exercise could not be attended to by CWSPU/PO
due to the financial crisis the CWSPU was facing. However, all these defects will be
rectified during the first six months of 1999 with consolidated funds.



48
(ii) Capacity Building of CBO's:
(a) Caretaker training programmes have been completed. However, with regard to
the newly completed sub projects and also where caretakers have left the area, modified
caretaker training programmes are being conducted. (b) Conflict resolution workshops are
being conducted. (c) O&M training done for the CBO leaders in already completed
schemes are completed. However, nominees of CBOs of sub projects recently completed
need to be trained. Leadership training programmes also have been/are being conducted.
(d) Information Directories containing the names, address and the services available of
Government, Non Government and other relevant agencies in all three districts have been
prepared and delivered amnong CBOs. (e) Three workshops have been conducted at district
level for Chairmen of Local Authorities, Divisional Secretaries and other relevant officials
with a view to set up a local level network to support the CBOs in ensuring the long term
sustainability of facilities acquired by them. (f) The following consensus were reached at
the above workshop: To sign an MOU among CBO, Local Authority and Divisional
Secretary to support O&M activities of CBO when and where necessary; 3-5% annual
income of Local Authorities to be allocated for O&M activities. (e) Agreement has been
already signed between the CWSPU District Project Unit and CBOs, identifying the tasks
of both sides to be performed in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of facilities
provided.
(iii) Legal Aspects of CBO's:
(a) Registration of CBOs under the Ministry of Housing & Urban Development. (b)
CBOs were encouraged and motivated to get their organizations registered under Local
Authority and Divisional Secretariat as NGOs. (c) Provision of certificate to each CBO by
the Ministry of Housing & Urban Development, giving the ownership of their water
schemes. (d)   Preparation of the jSt draft of the Legal Document (an Act.) to provide
legal status to CBOs. (e) Coordination committees at Provincial Level also have already
been established under the Chairmanship of Chief Secretary.
(iv) Insurance Coverage for Pumping/Gravity Schemes. CWSPU Ratnapura and Badulla
Districts have already initiated action on obtaining Insurance Coverage for completed
gravity and pumping schemes for a negligible premium, against malfunctioning of electrical
and mechanical equipment and any possibility of major failures in civil works. Inquiries
have been made in this regard from the state and private sector Insurance Agencies to
explore the possibilities on expanding this insurance scheme on the basis of successful
results gained through the above exercise. CWSPU is in the process of facilitating the
interested CBOs in all three districts to enter into such insurance coverages.
(v) Formation of CBO Federations. CWSPU in Ratnapura and Badulla have already initiated
action to form CBO federations. The first CBO federation has been formed in the
Kalawana Divisional Secretary Areas in Ratnapura and it has been reveled that there is a
strong, willingness of CBOs in forming into federations on the understanding that this might
enhance their capacity to handle possible future challenges. CWSPU is in the process of
facilitating the CBOs in the 3 districts on formation of CBO federations.
FUTURE PLANS
(i) Addressing the Legal Aspect of CBOs:
(a) Revision of CBO constitution based on the lessons learnt; Carryout a survey to
identify the need for revision of present contribution among randomly selected CBOs. Based on
survey findings, decide on the items to be added/deleted to the constitution; and prepare the



49
revised CBO constitution (already completed). (b) Process of delegating authority and power
vested with the Local Authorities to CBO in managing and functioning of their water schemes:
Make the Pradeshiya Sabhas aware of the importance of transferring required authority to CBOs
to ensure the long-term sustainability of facilities; Obtain the consensus of PSs; Facilitate the
CBO and Pradeshiya Sabha on signing an agreement on delegation of authority and powers
mentioned above. (c) Process of presenting an Act to the Parliament through the Cabinet to
Legalize and provide Legal Authority to CBOs with regard to the management and ownership of
assets: Obtain Assistance from the legal consultant assigned by the World Bank; Prepare a TOR;
Present the final draft to a plenary discussion of relevant stakeholders; Seek the advice of
Attorney General Department; Prepare a Cabinet Memorandum; and Presentation of the Proposed
Act by the Hon. Minister of Housing and Urban Development to the Parliament. (First draft is
ready)
(ii) Capacity Building of CBOs:
(a) Action to streamline the tariff collection: Carry out a collective study on present status
of tariff collection, tariff structure; O&M expenditure in randomly selected schemes (A
representative sample); Make recommendations to CBOs based on the findings on how to ensure
a continued effective O&M System; Introduce adequate caretaker remuneration's etc, scheme
wise tariff collection in-order to operate the scheme, commercially viable; Motivating CBOs to
utilize the O&M collection as a revolving fund to meet the other development requirements
without affecting the O&M activities; Identify the other development requirements of the
communities through the collective study mentioned above; Make recommendations on how to
utilize O&M collections in a productive manner. (b) Forming CBO Apex. Organizations to
handle future challenge: Organize wvorkshops among CBO officials enabling them to exchange
their experiences, issues and constraints encountered and potential solutions; Make them aware
that the future challenges with regard to the sustainability of facilities acquired by them, cannot
be handled by individually; Prepare the background conducive to CBOs to form into a broader
organization which will in turn generate more authority and power to overcome the possible
challenges. (c) CBOs registering as Companies, once they become matured and commercially
viable
(iii) Addressing Technical Issues:
(a) Preparation of scheme-wise detailed cost estimates and activity plans for rectification
of shortcomings identified. (b) Selection of a construction partner (preferably the CBO) for
rectification of such defects and sign agreements. (c) Rectification of shortcomings. (d)
Supervision by the project unit. (e) Protection of water sources by CBO
(iv) Introducing an Effective Coordination and Monitoring Mechanism:
(a) Establishment of operational committee in the village level comprising of
representatives from Divisional Secretary, PS, CBO and other people's organization with a view
to enhance the capacity of CBO to manage O&M activities. (b) Training of animators selected by
communities to facilitate the task of community facilitator, construction work, O&M and
undertaking caretaker's task and bridge the gap between the CBO and external agencies. (c)
Strengthening of the present coordination net work with other stake-holders at divisional level
and Provincial level.
(v) Capacity Building of Sector Stakeholders:
(a) Orientation Training Programmes for Technical Officers of Local Authorities and
Divisional Secretariats on Gravity Water Scheme maintenance: Design a suitable training
programme; Conducting the training programmes; Impact evaluation; and Provision of a set of
tools to PSs needed for repairs.
(b) Encourage and promote private sector on O&M and to make spare parts available at local



50
level: Conduct an assessment on availability and capacity of such private sector in the project
districts; Identify their needs to actively engage in the O&M of the project; Provision of
assistance to the private sector to embark on these activities. (c) Establish a separate unit under
each Provincial Council to facilitate the sustainability of facilities provided: Negotiate with the
Provincial Secretaries; Identify suitable staff; Agree on Terms of Reference; Establish the unit;
Provision of logistics; Conduct orientation training programme; Coordination and supervision of
activities
(vi) Formulation of a National Policy on RWSS'. The final draft is already completed and
editing is being attended.
SECTION 2 - SMALL TOWNS
The present status regarding the small towns, the improvements needed and aspects to be
considered in view of long term sustainability are summarised in this section.
(i) Present Status. The small town Water Supply and Sanitation Programme (STWSP) was
commenced in December 1994, and the programme is scheduled to be completed by December
1998. The original proposal for seventeen (17) Small Towns were subsequently reduced to
twelve (12) and according to the present program construction work of ten (10) Small Towns
have been completed by December 1998. The construction work of remaining two (2) Small
Towns will be completed soon. During the operation of the Small Towns, the district offices have
closely observed the development and the problems and issues have been documented. In
addition, the STWSP has also arranged some independent evaluations from time to time to assess
the situation and, to address the problems and issues identified. The recommendations from this
evaluation, together with our site visits and feed back from various missions have encouraged
STWSP to take remedial measures.
(ii) Aspects Requiring Attention. Discussions with the involved actors, CBOs, Provincial
Council Local Government Units, PSs and NWSDB Regional Offices etc., have identified certain
aspects which need attention for ensuring sustainability with regard to each scheme. These are
indicated in Table 1, together with the strategies to overcome these.
(iii) Implementation Arrangements.  The proposed strategies given above are to be
implemented jointly with the relevant actors and the responsibility for the Post Project Strategy
will be with the Programme Management (Small Towns) of Rural Water Supply Section of
NWSDB. Some of the work will be carried out by the district unit of Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation Section (RWS Section) of the NWSDB in Ratnapura, Matara and Badulla until March,
1999 and subsequently by the RWS Section closest to the respective districts. But many of the
responsibility will be carried out by the NWSDB Regional/District set up for backup support to
CBO/ PS in Ratnapura, Matara and Badulla district. It is expected to complete all items, except
those which will require continuous activities, by June 1999.
(iv) Cost estimates. In view of the nature of the work items, a tentative estimate is prepared
which amounts to Rs. 10.0 Million. This estimate includes the items such as supply and
installation of bulk meters, improvements to water intakes and protection of sources,
improvements to Treatment Unit, Support for office buildings and for other relevant software
activities such as training.



