Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2442-CE
                   Development Credit Agreement
          (Community Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 21, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2442-CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1992, between DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Area" means the districts of Badulla, Matara
and Ratnapura.
      (b)   "Program Unit" means the Community Water Supply and
Sanitation Program Unit referred to in Part 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   "Partner Organization" means an entity selected in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association which has
entered into an agreement with the Program Unit pursuant to Part 4
(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (d)   "Community Based Organization" means an organization
established pursuant to Section 3 (b) of the Societies Ordinance
which has entered into an agreement pursuant to Part 5 (b) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 3, 1992 and March 10,
1992 between the Borrower and the Association.
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      (g)   "Rupees" and "Rs" means Rupees in the currency of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
Page  3
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2003 and ending September 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, utility, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained by the Program Unit, Partner Organizations and Community
Based Organizations, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts of the Program
                   Unit referred to in paragraph (a) of this
                   Section including those for the Special Account
                   for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
      from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
      expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
Page  5
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   staff with qualifications and experience, and in numbers
satisfactory to the Association have been appointed to the head
office in Colombo of the Program Unit referred to in Part 1 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and are in place; and
      (b)   consultants referred to in Part 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, have been employed.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
            Colombo, Sri Lanka
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   SECMINFIN                  FINMIN 21409
                   Colombo                    FORAID 21232
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
Page  6
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
                           OF SRI LANKA
                         By /s/ Ananda W.P. Gurughungarumlaut\0d
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ P. Isenman
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Badulla district
    (a) Civil works              2,100,000      65%
    (b) Goods                    1,050,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category               SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(2) Matara district
    (a) Civil works              1,400,000       65%
    (b) Goods                      700,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
Page  7
(3) Ratnapura district
    (a) Civil works              2,100,000      65%
    (b) Goods                    1,050,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Program Unit                 1,100,000      100%
    operating
    costs
(5) Consultants                  5,550,000      100%
    services and
    training
(6) Refunding of                   500,000      Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                  1,350,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     16,900,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Program Unit operating costs" means salaries
of Program Unit additional staff, and Program Unit vehicle and
office operation and maintenance.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
      (a)   in respect of expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement;
      (b)   in respect of expenditures under Category (1) in Badulla
district, unless and until staff with qualifications and experience,
and in numbers satisfactory to the Association have been appointed
to the Program Unit branch in Badulla district referred to in Part
1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (c)   in respect of expenditures under Category (2) in Matara
district, unless and until staff with qualifications and experience,
Page  8
and in numbers satisfactory to the Association have been appointed
to the Program Unit branch in Matara district referred to in Part 1
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (d)   in respect of expenditures under Category (3) in
Ratnapura district, unless and until staff with qualifications and
experience, and in numbers satisfactory to the Association have been
appointed to the Program Unit branch in Ratnapura district referred
to in Part 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to develop and
implement sustainable community initiated water supply and
sanitation schemes, and hygiene education in the Project Area; and
(ii) to prepare for application beyond the Project Area, the
community based approach for water supply and sanitation schemes,
and hygiene education.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Program Development
      Provision of assistance by Partner Organizations to Community
Based Organizations for the preparation of water supply and
sanitation schemes, and hygiene education.
Part B:     Water Supply
      Supply of potable water through the construction of protected
wells, hand pump wells, spring source gravity schemes, and/or pumped
supplies.
Part C:     Sanitation
      Construction and upgrading of latrines for:
      1.    Individual households;
      2.    Schools; and
      3.    Pre-school institutions.
Part D:     Hygiene Education
      Hygiene education through media campaigns and training.
Part E:     Training
      Training for those involved in Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project.
Part F:     Project Management
1.    Establishment and maintenance of a Program Unit with a head
office in Colombo, and a branch office in Badulla, Matara, and
Ratnapura districts, respectively.
2.    Promotion of private sector participation in water supply and
sanitation system maintenance.
Part G:     Technical Assistance
      Provision of technical assistance:
1.    through the establishment and maintenance of a Technical
Support Cell to advise the Program Unit;
Page  9
2.    for studies and research to complement activities under the
Project; and
3.    to prepare future community based water supply and sanitation
projects.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $7,500 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,000,000,
may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $7,500 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
Page  10
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Institutions
1.    The Borrower shall, under Part F of the Project, establish and
thereafter maintain with staff, responsibilities and resources
satisfactory to the Association, a Program Unit with a head office
in Colombo, and a branch office in Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura
districts, respectively.
2.    The Borrower shall employ, for the Technical Support Cell
under Part G.1 of the Project, consultants in accordance with the
procedure set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.    The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain with
membership, responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the
Association, a National Steering Committee, and a District
Coordinating Committee in Badulla, Matara and Ratnapura,
respectively.
Partner Organizations
4.    The Borrower shall cause the Program Unit:
      (a)   to select Partner Organizations in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   to furnish to the Association for approval, Partner
Organizations eligibility assessments;
      (c)   to enter into an agreement with Partner Organizations
approved by the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, to implement schemes under the Project; and
      (d)   to ensure that such Partner Organizations continue to
satisfy the eligibility criteria, and suspend participation of
Partner Organizations which fail to satisfy said criteria.
Community Based Organizations
5.    The Borrower shall cause each Partner Organizations:
      (a)   to select Community Based Organizations in accordance
Page  11
with criteria satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   to enter into an agreement with a Community Based
Organization and the Program Unit, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to implement schemes under the
Project; and
      (c)   to ensure that such Community Based Organization
continue to satisfy the eligibility criteria, and suspend
participation of Community Based Organizations which fail to satisfy
said criteria.
Schemes
6.    The Borrower shall cause the Program Unit:
      (a)   to select schemes for program development, water supply,
sanitation and hygiene education under the Project, in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   to ensure that such schemes shall be carried out in
accordance with design standards satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   to furnish to the Association for approval the first
program development agreement and the first water supply, sanitation
or hygiene education agreement of an Partner Organization referred
to in Part 4 (c) of this Schedule; and
      (d)   to furnish to the Association the proposal for any
scheme estimated to cost more than Rs 2,000,000.
Cost Recovery
7.    The Borrower shall, with respect to Part B of the Project:
      (a)   cause Community Based Organizations to contribute at
least 20% of the direct capital cost of each water supply scheme,
except that for tube-wells the contribution is to be at least 10% of
the direct capital cost.
      (b)   cause Community Based Organizations to assume
responsibility for operation and maintenance of completed water
supply schemes including the establishment and collection from
beneficiaries of charges sufficient to cover the cost of operation
and maintenance related to each water supply scheme; and
      (c)   cause its agencies and Community Based Organizations to
establish and collect charges from beneficiaries on piped schemes
sufficient to cover the cost of operation and maintenance and the
larger of depreciation or debt service.
Action Plan
8.    (a)   The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance
with an action plan satisfactory to the Association.
      (b)   The Borrower shall by March 1, 1993 and by each
January 1 thereafter review and update the action plan in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Schemes in Project Area
9.    The Borrower shall apply the policies, criteria and procedures
established under the Project, to all schemes in the Project Area
for rural water supply, sanitation, and hygiene education.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  12
       (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
Page  13
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
