Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20344
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(31730)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$117 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.00 = US$ 0.57
US$ 1.00 = R$1.75
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL             Adaptable Program Loan
CISET           Internal Audit Unit, Ministry of Environment
CONAMA          National Environment Council
ESEC            Ecological Reserve
GOB             Federative Government of Brazil
IBAMA           Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources
IBDF            Forestry Agency (merged into IBAMA)
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
LAN             Local Area Network
MMA             Ministry of Environment
NEP             First National Environmental Project
NEP II          Second National Environmental Project
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
PARNA           National Park
PCBAP           Plan for the Conservation of the Upper Paraguay Basin
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PED             Decentralized Execution Projects
PROARCO         Brazil - Amazon Emergency Fire Prevention and Control Project
PROBIO          National Biodiversity Fund
REBIO           Biological Reserve
RIMA            Environmental Impact Assessment Report
SEMA - PR       Presidential Environment Secretariat (merged into IBAMA)
SEPA            State Environmental Protection Agency
SISNAMA         National Environmental System
SUDEPE          Fisheries Agency (merged into IBAMA)
SUDHEVEA        Rubber Promotion Agency (merged into IBAMA)
TTL             Task Team leader
UC              Conservation Unit
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:   John Redwood HI
Task Manager:   Daniel R. Gross



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
(LOAN 3173-BR)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     9
6. Sustainability                                                                        11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       14
9. Partner Comments                                                                      15
10. Additional Information                                                               22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        3 5
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    36
This docwment has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizaion.






Brazil
National Environmental Project
Loan Number 3173-BR
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Environmental Project in
Brazil. Loan 3173-BR, in the amount of US$117.0 million was originally approved on February 27, 1990
and became effective in December 5, 1990.
The ICR was prepared by Daniel R. Gross (Senior Anthropologist in LCSES) in collaboration
with Andrew Hurd (Consultant). It was reviewed by Robert Schneider (Environment Sector Leader,
LCC5C) Marta Molares (LEGLA) and Morag van Praag (LOAEL). The Borrower provided comments
that are included as Chapter 9 to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's mission in March, 1999. It is based on material in
the project files. The Borrower provided reports and other materials and contributed information and
insights through interviews.



I



Project ID: P006446                                        Project Name: BR NAT ENVIRONMT
Team Leader: Daniel R. Gross                               TL Unit: LCSEO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: April 11, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: BR NAT ENVIRONMT                                L/C/TFNumber: 31730
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management; VP -
Pollution Control / Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/15/87                                 Effective:  12/05/90           12/05/90
Appraisal:  11/08/89                                   MTR: 01/11/94              01/11/94
Approval.  02/27/90                                 Closing: 06/30/94             12/31/98
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Federative Republic of Brazil/Brazilian Institute of the Enviromnent and
Renewable Natural Resources; Federative Republic of Brazil/Ministry of
Environment
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                           Armeane Choksi
Sector Manager:       Robert Schneider                           Phyllis Pomerantz
Team Leader at ICR:   Daniel R. Gross                            Maritta Koch-Weser
ICR Primary Author:   Daniel R. Gross; Andrew K.
Hurd
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M-=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the project were to strengthen (i) the protection of the country's most important
conservation areas and imminently endangered ecosystems, with special emphasis on the reduction of
economic and environmental losses associated with uncontrolled deforestation, soil erosion and air and
water pollution in the Pantanal, Legal Amazon, Atlantic Forest and Brazilian Coast; (ii) the institutions of
the environmental sector, with special emphasis on strengthening IBAMA and State Agencies in the Legal
Amazon and Pantanal; and (iii) the regulatory framework of the environmental sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective did not change substantially after the Mid Term Review in 1994. The most important change
was the addition of the ecosystems of the Caatinga and Cerrado to section (i) of the original objective.
Since the project objectives remained virtually unchanged, the restructured project was not presented to the
Board. The Loan Agreement was amended in April 1994.
3.3 Original Components:
Original Funding Allocations by Component
Rating  Component                                 Sector                 Cost (US$)
S    Conservation Units                          Environment            43,200,000.00
S    Protection of Ecosystems                    Environment            52,500,000.00
S    Institutional Development                   Environment            50,600,000.00
HS    Project Management, Monit. & Eval.          Environment             2,700,000.00
Unallocated                                                       17.400.000.00
TOTAL    166,400,000.00
Assessment of original components
The original components were designed to (1) strengthen protection for conservation units (national parks,
biological reserves and the like); (2) strengthen protection of some of Brazil's most threatened ecosystems;
and (3) strengthen the recently created federal environmental protection agency, IBAMA.
Component (1) was designed to improve some 50 selected federal conservation units and was intended to
invest in planning, consolidation of land tenure, better protection from degradation risks such as fire and
squatting, improved management, and, where appropriate, better facilities for public visitation and
research. IBAMA was chronically short staffed with less than 700 people nationwide to manage nearly
150 conservation units covering tens of millions of hectares. During project preparation, IBAMA indicated
that it was seeking to expand its staff by some 500 but, as the project evolved, the possibility of a
significant manpower increase became increasingly remote. It also became apparent that a manpower
increase alone would not be sufficient to improve the management of conservation units. Four conservation
units were selected in as many management categories (National Park, Biological Reserve, Environmental
Protection Area, Ecological Reserve) to be raised to the state-of-the-art as models for the rest of the system.
However, both the original list of 50 and the four model units were not selected according to consistent
criteria and IBAMA's database on these units proved to be incomplete. During the first years of project
implementation, IBAMA struggled with its planning process, as it sought to apply a cumbersome planning
tool (the "Management Plan") to each conservation unit before any investment could take place. In
hindsight, it is apparent that the Borrower and the Bank did not take into account IBAMA's weak planning
capacity and its overconfidence in its capacity to manage its large empire of conservation units.
-2 -



Component (2) was designed to invest in the planning and implementation of measures to improve
protection of three ecosystems, namely the Atlantic Forest, the Pantanal, and the Coastal Zone, that were
named in the 1988 Federal Constitution as constituting a critical part of the National Heritage (Patrim6nio
Nacional). These components were designed to be implemented mainly by the States and included different
elements for each ecosystem. The Atlantic Forest was the most decentralized of the subcomponents and
allowed the participating states (Santa Catarina, Parana, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo) to
design and implement their own activities. Most of these States invested in the strengthening of state
conservation units incorporating endangered areas of Atlantic forest. Sao Paulo, Santa Catarina, Parana
and Espirito Santo also invested in improved forest-cover monitoring and enforcement of forestry laws.
However, because this component was not carefully structured at appraisal, it is difficult to assess its
impact. Some states, notably Rio de Janeiro, lagged behind in preparing and implementing their Atlantic
Forest activities with the result that little was accomplished. Other States used the resources mainly to
acquire equipment.
The Pantanal Subcomponent was implemented by the two States that encompass most of the Pantanal
wetlands, Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul. Each state divided its activities into two parts:
"Emergency Actions," and the "Plan for the Conservation of the Upper Paraguay Basin," or PCBAP.
Emergency actions consisted of strengthening monitoring and enforcement of fishery regulations,
strengthening of the licensing of potentially polluting activities, strengthening of state forestry policy,
wildlife protection, and water quality monitoring. In Mato Grosso there were also actions to license and
control wildcat mining activities. Most of the indicators for these activities related to inputs and none to
environmental quality. The sustainability of these actions is therefore open to question. The PCBAP began
as an ambitious zoning plan that would eventually generate legislation and use restrictions for the
environmentally sensitive Pantanal wetlands. After long delays, a multi-volume set of data was completed
and published containing baseline data on water quality, sedimentology, vegetation, fauna, indigenous
cultures and health. The data were also incorporated into a georeferenced database available in both
States. However, the goal of new environmental legislation to protect the Pantanal was not achieved and,
with hindsight, this goal may have been too ambitious.
The Coastal Zone Management subcomponent was the most structured and centralized of the three
Ecosystems subcomponents. It was managed by the Coastal Zone Unit at the Ministry of Environment
which inherited its mandate from a unit of the Navy that had previously been engaged in this exercise. The
goals of this sub-component were to produce a national baseline study using satellite imagery and GIS
technology, and to build the capacity of States to carry out baseline studies, planning and management in
their respective coastal regions. Eight of the 17 coastal states were engaged in this activity: Rio Grande do
Sul, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, and
Maranhao. Of these, two states (Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Norte) completed the full sequence of
actions prescribed by the Ministry's unit. However, actual management plans and monitoring schemes
were not generated in most states. Several states experienced difficulty in following the elaborate
prescription prepared by MMA and the scheme itself had to be simplified in order to get results at all. This
subcomponent, unlike the other two, may have been overly centralized in its conception and it proved
difficult to get full "buy-in" by the states.
Component (3) was centered around a few key activities: (a) the institutional analysis and restructuring of
IBAMA, (b) environmental education, (c) "technology for environmental management," (d) strengthening
of IBAMA's environmental information system, (e) developing a computer and MIS system for IBAMA,
(f) remote sensing laboratory, and (g) environmental toxicology.
- 3 -



(a) The institutional analysis was contracted and began fairly soon after the project began, but it dragged
on for more than two years because of instability in IBAMA's leadership and strong resistance from the
IBAMA Staff Association. The analysis fell short of the client's expectations and did not present a clear
diagnosis leading to a new structure for IBAMA. Also, the consultant construed its role as mainly analytic
and wanted to receive a new contract for an implementation plan. In retrospect, expectations of what the
management consultant could produce were too optimistic.
(b) The Environmental Education subcomponent focused on the production of educational materials which
would eventually find their way into primary and secondary school curricula. A series of workshops was
planned and numerous specialists were contracted. The enterprise stressed intellectual discussion but fell
short on practical content. The program did not focus on specific environmental problems, but rather on
the methodological questions of how to transform environmental problems into curriculum. In the process,
specific issues such as deforestation, were lost. The subcomponent also failed to consider alternatives such
as adult education, community mobilization, public information campaigns, etc.
(c) The "technology for environmental management" subcomponent aimed at producing manuals to be used
by practitioners in industry and agriculture and also to serve as a guide for state environmental protection
agencies (SEPAs) for use in designing environmental mitigation schemes. Like the environmental
education component, it was organized around a lengthy series of seminars and workshops that were costly
and time-consuming without a clear formulation of priorities and practical results.
(d) The "environmental information" subcomponent was a highly focused activity designed to produce two
practical results: (i) to strengthen IBAMA's collection of environmental materials (journals, books, etc.),
and (ii) to create small environmental information centers in some 20 cooperating states. Both activities
were modest in scope, focused, and well implemented.
(e) The original project design called for investing some US$2 million in renovation of space and
acquisition of equipment for a distributed computing system. However, changing technology persuaded
IBAMA's management to use these resources instead to create a networked system of microcomputers,
including LANs at headquarters, the state offices and other decentralized facilities at a cost of over US$10
million. Using support from the project, this system was designed, procured and implemented along with a
number of applications that paved the way for more efficient management of the agency.
(f) The project supported the strengthening of IBAMA's remote sensing laboratory through the upgrading
of its hardware and software. As a result of an analysis conducted with project support, the project also
financed the design and implementation of a "virtual network" among some 20 remote-sensing facilities in
as many different states. The purpose was to facilitate the exchange of techniques and data among
different laboratories and to reduce overlap. The "Remote Sensing Associated Network" was implemented
with partial success. The design adopted may have overestimated IBAMA's capacity to play a leadership
role since its own structure imposed so many constraints. Remote sensing is a rapidly evolving
technological field and a state-of-the-art laboratory may well become obsolete three to five years after it is
installed. This imposes a requirement to constantly upgrade the technical stock of equipment and to recycle
technical personnel. To do so, IBAMA decided to charge its internal clients for services to offset the
maintenance and depreciation costs. However, this plan was never implemented so the quality of IBAMA's
new laboratory began to degrade shortly after it was completed. IBAMA also had difficulty controlling the
tendency of the Remote Sensing Laboratory to set its own work program rather than responding to demand.
This resulted in pressures to develop parallel remote sensing laboratories within the walls of the same
institution to serve the needs, for example, of wildfire detection. These difficulties could possibly have
been detected during preparation if a more thorough institutional analysis had been carried out.
-4 -



(g) During project implementation, it was found that an entire component with an allocation of some
US$20 million had not been appraised. The goal of this component was to create or strengthen a network
of environmental toxicology laboratories in under-served states to lay the basis for environmental
monitoring. After some analysis, it was decided not to go forward with this component since the demand
for such services and the sustainability of the proposed laboratories had not been demonstrated.
(h) A number of small-scale subprojects was also included under this component. They included the
rehabilitation of the Riacho Fundo Nature Sanctuary near Brasilia carried out by an NGO. This activity
was not completed. Another such activity was a national survey of Brazil's speleological heritage. This
activity was not begun. It appears that these subprojects were added to the project during preparation to
gain the favor of key stakeholders in Brazil but they were not integrated into the overall structure of the
project.
Events leading to restructuring
The principal events leading to restructuring were basically (a) a low level of disbursement for the first
three years, due in part to the high levels of inflation during this period; (b) questionable levels of
commitment to some project activities; and (c) growing evidence of the need to clarify and redefine the
goals of some project components (see the foregoing analysis). Low disbursement was partly a
consequence of excessive caution on the part of IBAMA to invest in conservation units. IBAMA's Parks
Department required that a full planning cycle using a complex and rigid methodology be completed before
any significant investments could be made. There were also problems with procurement arising out of the
control held by some old-line IBAMA employees who had little interest in modernizing the agency or
making it more effective. Some of the problems that arose could have been foreseen with better analysis
during appraisal, but many were probably due to the Bank's and the Borrower's relative unfamiliarity with
this type of operationi. Since 1988-89 (when the project was being prepared), much has been learned about
institutional strengthening and individual subcomponents would be designed differently today, with more
concern for issues like ownership, benefit-cost ratios, environmental impact, and sustainability.
In 1993, after a relatively unstable period in Brazilian Government, during which a government had been
elected and deposed, a relatively stable administration took the reins and began to implement far-reaching
economic and political reforms. Government became more concerned with the efficiency and effectiveness
of services. Large-scale "mega-projects" were no longer proposed and implemented. There was a strong
concern with streamlining government, improving services and fiscal responsibility. The Real Plan
stabilized the currency and helped restore investor confidence. In 1993, a Ministry of Environment was
created to which IBAMA was subordinated. The Project Management Unit was taken out of IBAMA and
moved to the Ministry which established itself in a new location in the national capital. Most of the
components of the project were removed from direct control by IBAMA except where it was essential, as in
Conservation Units and some aspects of Institutional Strengthening aimed specifically at IBAMA. The
Minister of Environment recognized the project's shortcomings and threw his support behind restructuring.
This also afforded him an opportunity to put his administration's stamp on the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project Restructuring
The following paragraphs summarize the changes that were adopted after the Mid-Term Review of 1994.
The Country and Legal Departments determined that restructuring did not constitute a change in objectives.
- 5 -



Hence the revision was not presented to the Board of Directors for approval. -
(1) The Conservation Units Component was scaled back to more closely fit the actual capacity of the
agency to implement. The target for conservation units improved was reduced from 50 to 33 and the
budget reduced to roughly one third the original value. IBAMA also agreed, as a condition of disbursement
for that component, that it would sign at least eight co-management agreements with other agencies or
private-sector organizations as a way of overcoming its manpower shortage and low implementation
capacity. After an initial period of reluctance, IBAMA quickly discovered the extent to which it could
expand its capacity to operate effectively in conservation units, by signing agreements with government
agencies and NGOs to take over certain responsibilities in conservation units. To break the planning
logjam, IBAMA adopted a simplified "Emergency Action Plan" instrument which could be prepared in 60
days and which officials were willing to allow to serve as the basis for investments. The model
conservation units were deleted from the project.
(2) The budget for the Ecosystems Component was also reduced but the general outline of the component
remained the same. MMA adopted a more flexible posture on how resources could be used and several
states came forward with innovative proposals within the framework of the original design that allowed
them to make good investments. Some excellent subprojects were supported under this component in the
States of ParanA and Sao Paulo.
(3) The Institutional Development Component was substantially restructured. The environmental
education, technology for environmental management, and environmental toxicology laboratories were
deleted from the project by MMA which determined that their potential benefit was not commensurate with
the cost of these components. The Institutional Analysis and restructuring of IBAMA continued as a
component but at a lower level of budgetary support. Some funds were allocated to the institutional
strengthening of the Ministry of Environment which was created in 1993 after the project began
implementation. The project financed studies on decentralization and environmental licensing that had an
important influence on the direction the Ministry took. It also supported the development of an electronic
network for MMA similar to that developed in IBAMA.
(4) The original design had included the preparation and implementation of about ten local environmental
subprojects with little indication of the nature of such subprojects. This idea was significantly scaled up
and linked to environmental policy strengthening at the State level under the Decentralized Execution
Projects Component (PED). An elaborate manual was drawn up to define the kinds of policy reforms that
States should adopt in order to become eligible for project support. MMA successfully resisted political
pressures to make grants, and carefully followed the guidelines established in the manual. Many state
environmental secretariats welcomed the opportunity to make reforms because the availability of grant
moneys conditional on such reforms provided them with significant leverage. The eligibility criteria
included demonstration of the growth and support of a state environmental agency, the development of
specific forestry legislation at a state level, the development of a more transparent licensing system with
civil-society participation in decision-making. A budget of some US$61.2 million was allocated for this
component. States were required to match at least 30% of the total project costs. In many cases, both
states and localities mobilized considerably more than 30% to finance these subprojects.
- 6 -



Funding Allocations by Component after Restructuring
Ratinq             Component                        Sector        Cost (US$)
S            Conservation Units                 environment 16,900,000.00
S            Protection of Ecosystems           environment 22,800,000.00
S            Institutional Development          environment 23,500,000.00
HS           Project Mgmt., Mon. & Eval         environment 2,700,000.00
HS           Decentralized Matching Grants             environment 61,200,000.00
Unallocated                                     17,400,000.00
TOTAL                                             166,400,000.00
Assessment of Revised Components
The design of the Revised Components is Satisfactory. The Mid-Term Review took into account the lessons learned
from the first three years of project implementation, eliminating the activities that were not performing well and
stressing activities that responded to the rapidly changing environment in Brazil.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the project is rated as Unsatisfactory. The subsequent poor performance of the
project up until the Mid-Term Review was related more to unanticipated institutional issues and
counterpart funding problems with than to problems with the basic design. Institutional analysis could
have been better, but IBAMA was a very new institution at the time the project was prepared and had no
track record to evaluate.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Most objectives were either achieved or significant progress was made toward achieving them. The
National Environmental Project's (NEP) overall outcome, therefore, is satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Conservation Units
The original target of 50 federal conservation units was reduced to 33, representing every region of the
country. Extensive planning exercises with public participation were conducted in each of these
conservation units (National Parks, Biological Reserve, Environmental Protection areas, etc.). Upon
completion of the planning phase, significant investments were made in nearly all the conservation units
including such items as improved infrastructure, visitor facilities, environmental studies, physical
demarcation, etc. As a result these 33 conservation units are stronger, better managed, and better able to
fulfill the conservation and public recreation goals for which they were created. NEP also supported
training for federal conservation unit staff.
Protection of Ecosystems
Pantanal
Using project resources, a number of "emergency actions" were taken by the States of Mato Grosso do Sul
and Mato Grosso (encompassing the entire Brazilian Pantanal) including improved environmental
-7 -



enforcement, infrastructure improvements, stronger regulations, water quality-monitoring, training and
other activities. Parallel to these actions, NEP supported a comprehensive baseline study of environmental,
economic and social characteristics in the entire Pantanal Region and surrounding hinterland as a basis for
zoning, future planning and development. This study, conducted in a coordinated way by the Federal
Universities of the respective States, has been published in several volumes and is also available in
electronic form. This study was also one of the main sources for an IDB environmental project currently
under preparation.
Atlantic Forest
NEP supported activities in several of the principal states where significant remnants of Atlantic Forest
remain including Santa Catarina, Parana, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Espirito Santo. These included
creation and strengthening of state conservation units, improved environmental enforcement, training,
baseline studies, etc.
The Brazilian Coast
NEP supported a national baseline study of the entire coast, published a comprehensive set of maps and
created an electronic database. It also supported the development of specialized tools for environmental
analysis in eight of the 17 coastal states, including the creation and strengthening of specialized laboratories
with geographic information systems. Two States developed actual management plans for segments of the
coast while the other six made significant strides in their capacity to describe and analyze coastal zone
dynamics.
Institutional Development
NEP supported a comprehensive institutional analysis of Brazil's national environmental agency, IBAMA,
and management studies which contributed to the reform of this agency. Relatively few actual reforms
were adopted at IBAMA during the project period, but the momentum created by these studies has
continued and, after the project closed, IBAMA began an extensive series of reforms including a new
institutional structure. NEP supported the acquisition and improvement of important tools for
environmental management including the expansion of IBAMA's library and information system,
distribution of computers and bibliographic resources to many State environmental agencies, the
development of a state-of-the-art remote sensing laboratory and a national network of associated
remote-sensing laboratories. NEP also supported creation of a nationwide electronic network for IBAMA,
linking nearly every desk at headquarters in Brasilia and IBAMA facilities in all 27 States. NEP also
supported extensive training of some 1,700 IBAMA staff. After the Ministry of Environment was created
in 1993, NEP supported development of a Local Area Network (LAN) in that agency. NEP also
supported a number of studies that led to policy changes in federal environmental policy and in the
relationship between the federal and state governments.
Decentralized Execution Projects (PED)
At the midterm review in 1994, the Government of Brazil proposed the addition of a community-based,
participatory component which would allow local community groups to propose and execute environmental
projects for the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. This was fully consistent with the
objectives and project design of the original project which had called for the preparation and
implementation of 19 local-level environmental projects. Under the Decentralized Execution Project
component (PED), twenty out of Brazil's 27 states were able to qualify by demonstrating that they had
- 8 -



adopted significant improvements in environmental legislation, support for environmental agencies, the use
of key environmental protection instruments, and other reforms. State Environmental authorities were
enthusiastic about this design because it gave them leverage for implementing important policy reforms and
provided their state with resources for specific subprojects.
This component sparked a remarkable amount of energy and creativity in more than one hundred
communities across the country, allowing these communities to make more effective use of natural
resources and reduce degradation. These subprojects were implemented mainly at the level of
municipalities or consortia of municipalities and frequently involved the private sector, local NGOs,
university and research institutions, and local groups. PEDs included the local development of ecotourism,
sustainable use of marine resources, marine and inland aquaculture, rehabilitation of degraded lands, etc.
Section 10 lists a sample of titles and institutional arrangements for these subprojects.
In May 1998, US$3.9 million was reallocated from the PED Component at the Government's request to
support emergency efforts to respond to the forest fires in the state of Roraima. These reallocated funds
were used to finance equipment for fire suppression efforts, as well as the strengthening of an early warning
system for high risk areas. These activities fed into the Brazil - Amazon Emergency Fire Prevention and
Control Project (PROARCO) financed by the Bank.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n/a
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As discussed in Section 4.2, NEP contributed to the country's ability to manage key environmental
resources, and review and implement enviromnental policy reforms. The tools mentioned under Section
4.2 gave IBAMA and MMA greater capacity to formulate and implement environmental policy and helped
integrate the national environmental protection system by strengthening the linkages and coordination
between the Federal Government and State Environmental Agencies. The PED Program described above
contributed to institutional development in two ways: (a) by inducing a series of policy reforms in many
States as eligibility requirements, and (b) by strengthening -- and sometimes creating -- the capacity to plan
and implement environmental projects at a local (municipal) level. NEP also supported detailed analyses in
certain key policy areas. For example, NEP supported a comprehensive review of the state of the art in
environmental licensing in all regions of the country which is being used to design and implement
environmental licensing reforms under the recently approved Second National Environmental Project (NEP
II). NEP also supported extensive studies aimed at transferring responsibility for environmental
enforcement from IBAMA to State agencies under "federative pacts," which have been negotiated in 6
states (Minas Gerais, Ceara, Bahia, Goias, Espirito Santo, and Mato Grosso), from 1997 forward.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A major factor that severely hindered project implementation was the ongoing fiscal crisis in Brazil that
resulted in shortages of counterpart funds, both because access to treasury funds were often frozen over
long periods and because accelerating inflation from 1990 to 1994 quickly reduced the real value of
budgeted resources. Conditions improved dramatically after the Real Plan of July 1994.
-9-



The overall climate, during project implementation, was one of strong public interest in the environment.
Two external factors influenced public perceptions: (1) the UNCED conference in Rio in 1992 which
focused attention in Brazil on environmental matters and spurred the creation of many environmental
NGOs; and (2) a series of disastrous events in the Amazon region including a massive burning season in
1987, the assassination of Rubber Tapper leader Chico Mendes in 1988, the massacre of 16 Yanomami
Indians at the hands of Brazilian gold miners in 1993. These events increased both public awareness and
sensitivity abroad. The G-7 leaders at their Houston summit in 1990 proposed creation of a Pilot Program
to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest. Partly in response to these external events, the government created,
in 1990 (Law No. 8.028, April 12, 1990), a Federal Secretariat for Environment, which became the
Ministry of Environment in 1993. Thus, the project was implemented in a climate of heightened public
awareness and expectation and increased external pressure on the Government to manage highly visible
environmental problems more effectively.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the second half of the project period (roughly 1994-1998), the Government of Brazil embarked on a
major reform program. Among the major aspects of this program were the decentralization of government
services to the State level or below, efficiency improvements, reduction of costly entitlements, fiscal reform,
etc. IBAMA was targeted among the agencies slated for reform.
The 1988 Constitution provided for "concurrent" responsibility for environment between the Federal and
State Governments but many specific roles and activities were poorly defined, and, in practice, cooperation
between State and federal agencies was virtually non-existent. IBAMA, initially the lead agency for the
NEP, was created in 1988 through the fusion of four existing agencies (the Presidential Environmental
Secretariat (SEMA-PR); the fisheries agency (SUDEPE); the forestry agency (IBDF); and the rubber
promotion agency (SUDHEVEA)). IBAMA's structure preserved the outlines of its former constituent
agencies, and cooperation among them was tenuous. Also, IBAMA's presence in the States was built
around State superintendencies which were subject to significant local political pressures. During project
appraisal, it was recognized that IBAMA required major reorganization so the project design provided
support for an institutional analysis and subsequent reorganization of the agency and an elaborate exercise
was carried out for that purpose. However, instability and resistance from IBAMA's staff delayed and
stymied the reorganization process at every turn. A reorganization of the agency was carried out during
1999 (after the project closed) and continues in the present.
Perhaps the greatest single factor affecting project performance prior to the midterm review in 1994 was
instability in the primary implementing agency, IBAMA. During a three-year period, IBAMA had seven
presidents. Each of these Presidents brought in a new management team and instituted personnel changes
and changes in the structure of the agency. However, none was able to overcome the entrenched
"corporativism" of IBAMA's staff in which "turf' was jealously guarded, frequently at the expense of
mission.
In 1993, the project coordination unit was shifted from IBAMA to the newly created Ministry of
Environment, under Minister Coutinho Jorge and Hugo de Almeida as Executive Secretary. When Gustavo
Krause became Minister in 1996, the Ministry's portfolio was expanded to include water resources. Project
performance improved considerably after the PCU was shifted to the Ministry of Environment, although
significant portions of the project continued to be administered through other agencies, as follows:
* Conservation Units - IBAMA
*   Ecosystems - Individual States
- 10-



* Institutional Development - IBAMA, MMA
* PED - MMA, States and Individual Subproject Consortia
Unfortunately, heightened public awareness of environmental issues did not translate into major changes in
federal environmental policy. There were many political obstacles to improving the performnance of state
environmental agencies. These agencies, with a few exceptions, tended to be underfunded and unstable,
while IBAMA had difficulty adjusting to a new role in a decentralized environment. On a broader level,
IBAMA and the newly formed Ministry of Environment did not take a strategic view and select specific
priorities for action. Nor did these agencies organize themselves adequately to identify and attack the
principal environmental problems. Perhaps the only environmental problem to which the federal
government systematically addressed itself was deforestation in the Amazon region. However, most of its
efforts were spent on isolated, short-term enforcement campaigns; there was little cooperation with State
agencies and no coordinated campaign to rationalize the licensing and enforcement of forestry activities,
and few efforts at public education. There is no evidence that federal efforts had a significant effect on the
rate of deforestation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
IBAMA's instability and lack of experience administering externally funded projects also added to the
initial problems in project implementation. However, under MMA, a stable and efficient PCU was
developed with a small but devoted staff specializing in technical issues, planning, procurement,
disbursement and accounting, and overall project administration. These units became the model for several
other programs in the Ministry including the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest, the
PROBIO, etc. In many ways, the NEP PCU became the template for the development of MMA's structure.
However, the relative newness of the Ministry, its lack of permanent staff, and its heavy dependence on
externally funded programs led to the fragmentation of the institution into many largely autonomous shops,
each reproducing many functions such as procurement and financial management. Through NEP, MMA
developed a relationship with the State Environmental Agencies and, through frequent contact and judicious
management, many "turf' issues were resolved and the basis for the formation of a stable, productive
"National Environmental System" was laid. This may prove to be the most lasting legacy of NEP.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Fiscal issues affecting the availability of counterpart funds are discussed under 5.1. Disbursement lagged
seriously behind until 1994. Subsequently, disbursement picked up sharply and, after three extensions of
the closing date, the project was nearly fully disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
As intended, NEP played a major role in developing institutions at the Federal State and sub-state levels
which are likely to be sustained over the long-term. The project made significant contributions to the
institutional growth of IBAMA, MMA and the "National Environmental System," or SISNAMA, and it
helped to integrate these institutions and to define goals and roles more clearly. While other factors also
played a role, NEP provided critical support for the development and consolidation of the Ministry of
Environment and several State environmental agencies.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Although the place of the environmental agenda in Brazilian policy is still not fully consolidated, many of
the important elements are now in place. On the institutional side, the Ministry of Environment, IBAMA,
many strengthened State environmental agencies, a number of functioning Federal and state conservation
units including many popular parks, and growing public awareness of the need for effective environmental
- 1 1 -



protection are in place. The Ministry of Environment and most State Environmental Agencies have
important and recognized roles and they are unlikely to be ignored by their respective executive and
legislative branches in the future. Environment is still regarded with some distrust in Brazil, particularly
those who see it as a brake on development. However, events like the recent oil spill in Guanabara Bay,
and increased pollution problems in metropolitan Rio and Sao Paulo, widespread shortages of pure water
supplies, and increasingly catastrophic forest fires in the Amazon and floods in other regions, have made
it clear to the public officials that environment cannot be ignored. Although such events continue to occur,
it is clear to virtually all stakeholders that Brazilian governments have a valid claim on resources to deal
with such problems. Activities supported by NEP and other Bank-financed operations have contributed
both to governmental capacity and to the development of an environmental "constituency" that will continue
to be the primary basis of sustainability of the environmental sector.
Many of the studies and activities financed under the project have directly contributed to the development
of the Second National Environmental Project (NEP II), recently approved by the Bank. NEP II takes into
account the lessons learned provided in Section 8 and seeks to strengthen and solidify the environmental
constituencies created under NEP, particularly the PED Component. As NEP II is an Adaptable Program
Loan (APL), the appraisal of Phase II of the Program (expected to occur in 2003) presents an excellent
opportunity for a full review of the long-term impact of NEP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Identification
NEP was the first stand-alone national environmental project financed by the Bank. It came against a
backdrop of increasing external and internal pressure for action on highly visible environmental problems
such as deforestation in the Amazon region. It also occurred during a crisis in the internal organization of
environmental institutions in Brazil. The Bank played a key role in helping to focus the concerns of federal
authorities and to identify key issues that required sustained support in order to develop. The project also
supported development of key institutions at a federal and State level. The Bank might have placed greater
emphasis on issues that affect the quality of life of the majority of people in Brazil, particularly the urban
poor, in defining the project scope.
Preparation
Project preparation involved a wide process of consultation both in and outside government, so much so,
that some project components "slipped in" that may not have been consistent with the overall project
design. Greater attention might have been paid to risk assessment and priority setting at the state and local
levels as a means for focusing activities. Some components were dropped after the Mid-Term Review,
possibly because their goals were not defined clearly enough during preparation. These include the
environmental education and "technology for environmental management." The project design was not
entirely coherent and included components that were not fully analyzed. However, the project reflected the
state-of-the-art at the time of preparation and greater rigor might have reduced official support for the
project.
Appraisal
In general, the appraisal followed consistently upon preparation (see above). Because the situation was in
flux, the risk of instability in IBAMA may not have been adequately anticipated and its inexperience with
externally-funded projects not taken into account. The time frame initially proposed for the project (three
- 12 -



years) was inadequate, especially in view of the institutional problems that emerged. However, extensions
of the closing date allowed the project to evolve and suitable responses to emerge.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was generally timely and thorough. Full supervision missions were conducted on average
every six months, and there were many informal missions lasting a few days during visits to Brazil by the
TTL and other staff. Many missions included visits to particular sites that received support from the
project such as conservation units and PED subprojects. A great deal of supervision input went into review
of procurement documents since a large volume of resources went into consulting, equipment and small
works. The Bank team responded to more than 1400 separate procurement documents, often providing
detailed guidance on the technical design of consultant studies and other project-supported activities. In
general, problems were identified and dealt with in a timely fashion, especially regarding some
unproductive project components that were deleted from the project at the Mid-Term Review stage.
The Mid-Term Review was highly satisfactory. Close supervision of the fiscal and institutional problems
during the first half of the project implementation period allowed the Task team to work effectively with
MMA and IBAMA to redesign the project, increasing its potential for success. The addition of the PED
component after the Mid-Term Review greatly increased the relevance, visibility and support for the project
at the state and local levels.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank 's performance on this project evolved from unsatisfactory to satisfactory.
Disbursements lagged seriously during the first three years of project implementation, but picked up
significantly after the mid term review and adjustments in the project design.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower may have overestimated IBAMA's capacity to adequately administer this project. Some of
the components of the project were not completely worked out at appraisal with the result that significant
preparatory work had to be done after the project was effective.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
There were some delays in the availability of counterpart funding due to the temporary freezing of treasury
funds during 1992-1994, resulting in implementation delays. In 1993, treasury funds for project
implementation were not released until late in the year, resulting in the loss of most of a year in project
implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
After the Mid-Term Review and the transfer to MMA, project implementation improved considerably. The
Ministry set up a small department to disseminate procurement techniques to the implementing agencies
and this Department was remarkably successful in training more than 100 separate agencies in Bank
procurement guidelines. In similar manner, many State agencies and municipal-level implementation units
were trained in the preparation of Annual Operating Plans, budgeting and expenditure accounting.
Considering the degree of decentralization in the project, the project was managed very effectively at the
Federal level. Audits were carried out annually by the Secretaria Federal de Controle which, in turn,
relies on the Ministry's internal audit unit, CISET. While these audits left something to be desired in terms
of thoroughness, they were generally conducted in a credible manner.
There was wide variation in the implementation of the PED subprojects since this depended on the capacity
of local entities, usually municipal administrations with some support from state coordination units and
- 13-



locally hired consultants. Some of these entities were not accustomed to elementary planning and
budgeting while others had experience only in the context of non-Bank financed projects.
7.7 OverallBorrowerperformance:
Overall, after the Mid-Term Review, project implementation was satisfactory. The Borrower and the Bank
had a continuous and productive dialogue on all matters and there was a high degree of transparency in
MMA's operations. MMA also kept excellent records and made available many studies, papers and other
materials produced by the project. MMA also conducted independent reviews of the project's operations
and published the results.
8. Lessons Learned
The following are the principal lessons learned from the experience of the National Environmental Project.
1. Stand-alone investments in Institutional Strengthening are less effective than an approach which
focuses on specific improvements in institutional performance and in environmental quality.
2. Training resources need to be deployed with a view to effectiveness and sustainability. Considerable
resources were spent equipping and training some units of IBAMA and other organizations, but often
these inputs were not specifically linked to organizational outputs or outcomes. In such cases, not only
was it frequently impossible to detect any measurable benefit from the investment, the investments
themselves were often not sustainable. For example, some people were trained but were not in a
position to use the skills they acquired or were transferred shortly after their training.
3. Local ownership and initiatives are essential for stand-alone subprojects. Almost invariably,
subprojects developed outside the area where they were implemented enjoyed a lower level of support
and were less successful than those responding to local demand.
4. The incentive structure for agencies and stakeholders alike must be carefully analyzed to provide an
adequate framework for improvements in environmental quality. In some cases, people were trained
and strategies were developed without consideration of what stakeholders would stand to gain or lose.
For example, strategies were developed for conservation units that had no staff because of their remote
location, lack of amenities, lack of salary differentials, etc. In some cases, sophisticated equipment was
procured for agencies which did not have resources to cover maintenance and depreciation.
5. Sustainable improvements in environmental quality require partnerships between federal/local
governments and public/private sectors. Specific local interventions developed and implemented in
partnership with local governments, civil-society organizations, etc. were generally more successful and
showed signs of greater sustainability.
6. Planning and studies (e.g. zoning and databases) must be complemented with implementation. A
number of studies financed under the project have languished on bookshelves as interesting documents
because they were not linked directly to action plans for which there was ownership.
7. Widespread public information, transparency and clear rules enhance the policy leverage of the
matching grants program. One of the factors that contributed to the success and widespread acclaim
for the PED Program was the complete transparency with which the project was implemented. All
decisions were taken in a public manner following published rules.
8. The encouragement of environmental constituencies are key to successful institutional strengthening.
Some activities, such as strengthening conservation units and environmental enforcement could have
been more effective if they had taken better account of the actual or potential stakeholders who would
favor such actions.
9. Relatively small matching grants can provide sufficient incentives to States to adopt significant
environmental reforms. Most of the PED matching grants were in the vicinity of about US$600,000
but these amounts were sufficient to leverage major policy reforms including the adoption of
- 14 -



environmental legislation, new regulations, etc.
10. The Mid-Term Review can transform a struggling project into a success if primary constraints are fully
understood and an open dialogue exists between the Task team and the Borrower. After the Mid-Term
Review in NEP, the Matching Grant component (PED) was implemented with great success. The
Mid-Term Review was effective by providing a specific moment in which to examine progress in the
project and to focus attention on alternatives and mid-course corrections.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of Brazil: Ministry of Environment
National Environmental Program: 1991 - 1997
Brasilia, 1997
Borrower's Report - Summary
1. The National Environmental Project (NEP) was implemented during a period of high economic and
administrative instability for the first half of its implementation period (early 1991 up to the first semester
of 1994). High inflation rates, high degrees of uncertainty in planning, and the effects of macroeconomic
policies needed for the economic stability of the country significantly hampered the implementation of the
Project during this period.
2. The Brazilian Government submitted the Project to the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD), and signed a Loan Agreement (3173-BR) on August 16, 1990. The loan will be
repaid within 15 years with fixed and scheduled installments including 5 years of grace, and the standard
variable interest rates of the Bank.
3. Total funding of the Project, in accordance with the original conditions of the Loan Agreement as of its
Midterm Review (April, 1994), was US$166.4 million.
Source:                       US$ Million   End Use:                     US$ Million
IBRD                          117.0         Institutional Development      27.8
Government of Brazil           49.4         Conservation Units             41.8
Protection of Ecosystems       36.5
PEDs                           60.6
Project Coordination           15.8
PROARCO (re-allocated)         02.9
TOTAL                         166.4         TOTAL                          185.4
4. Objectives
Designed during the period of 1987 - 1989, the Project initially targeted three main objectives: (i)
strengthening of environmental institutions and legal and regulatory frameworks; (ii) protection of the
environmentally most important areas in the context of environmental policies of the country; and (iii)
protection of eminently endangered ecosystems. In the context of institutional development, special
emphasis was given to the strengthening of the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable
Natural Resources (IBAMA) and of state environmental agencies in the Legal Amazon and in the Pantanal
regions. In the context of protection activities, the reduction of economic and environmental losses
associated with uncontrolled deforestation, soil erosion, and air and water pollution in the ecosystems of
- 15 -



Amazon, Pantanal, Atlantic Forest and Coastal Zone was stressed. With regard to the regulatory
framework, the procedures related to the Environmental Impact Assessment Report (RIMA), to
environmental zoning, management of river basins and eco-toxicology were emphasized. Furthermore, the
Project played a major role in a broader government effort in integrating environmental considerations into
regional development and planning.
These lines of action defined the components that encompassed the National Environmental Project in its
first phase; (i) Institutional Development; (ii) Conservation Units; and (iii) Protection of Ecosystems.
In the second phase of the Project, which began with the Midterm Review, the program was reorganized-
activities were either canceled or stopped due to insufficient results, technical non viability or unfavorable
cost-benefit ratios. A new component, Decentralized Execution Projects (PED) was introduced during the
Midterm Review.
Without changing the original objectives of NEP, the Midterm Review allowed for a fine tuning in the
definition of these objectives, summarized as follows:
*   Strengthening the operational capacity of the Brazilian government particularly the Ministiy of the
Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon (MMA), the Brazilian Institute for the
Environment and of Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), and state environmental agencies in
order to assure availability of institutional, human, technical and information resources needed to
implement environmental policies within their areas of action;
3  Establishment and maintenance of a National System of Conservation Units;
3  Development of management tools and preservation activities for special ecosystems with high risk of
degradation which have been declared "of national interest" by the Federal Constitution (Pantanal,
Atlantic Forest, Coastal Zone);
i  Implementation of demonstration projects for sustainable development based on the principles of (i)
development of decentralized environmental management; (ii) incorporation of local government and
civil society in environmental management; (iii) introduction of market tools for environmental
management and sustainable use of natural resources.
- 16 -



5. Financing
Source of Funds    External Resources (US$ Million)    Counterpart         TOTAL
Loan             Grant            Funding         US$ Million
US$ Million
IBRD                    115.0                                                 115.0
GTZ                                       17.2*                               17.2
Federal Government                                          38.0              38.0
States                                                      12.9              12.9
Municipalities                                               2.3               2.3
TOTAL              115.0             17.2              53.2              185.4
* GTZ provided US$17.2 in grant resources to the Government of Brazil to finance part of the
government's contribution to counterpart funds for the Conservation Units Component.
6. Results and Benefits
The National Environmental Project financed by the World Bank with counterpart funds from the National
Treasury was the largest credit operation signed by the environmental sector with the multilateral agencies
in Brazil. It has also been the main funding source of projects of this kind during its execution phase.
Institutional Development - Institutional development activities carried out under the Project achieved
major progress in the administrative framework related to environmental management. Previously, human
resources capacity, availability of equipment, facilities and information systems were lacking. During the
implementation of the Project, this sector achieved long lasting results such as:
v  Establishment of an information system for the Ministry of the Environment and IBAMA with positive
impacts on work productivity, technical capacity for planning and coordination, expediting
communications, increasing the control capacity of the administration, and on the opportunity and
assurance of decision-making;
v  Establishment of a remote sensing network whose products would potentially increase the capacity of
planning and management, supervision of the use and the preservation of natural resources by
environmental agencies, including an increase the areas of activities, and a decrease in operational
costs;
*   Training for over 1,700 technical and administrative staff of the National Environmental System in
several areas, but highlighting those areas which environmental agencies lacked most - particularly
those related to planning and management;
*   Establishment of an information and documentation national network, allowing researchers and
technical staff of environmental organizations to reap immediate benefits on the rationality and
efficiency of their activities.
Conservation Units - The Conservation Units component, which had faced difficulties during the first
phase of the Project, increased the speed of its implementation over the last three years, rehabilitating 33 of
these units (20 national parks, 5 biological reserves, 5 ecological stations, 3 environmental protected areas)
that were partially unprotected, without management plans and closed to public visitors or to research
- 17 -



entities due to lack of minimal operational conditions. In total, these units, distributed over all regions of
the country, cover an area of 56,000 sq. km, approximately one third of all Conservation Units area
administered by IBAMA. Supported by the National Environmental Project, IBAMA has developed
promising experiments in joint management of the protected areas in partnership with state and local
govemment institutions, NGOs, etc. thus acquiring credibility to establish other similar agreements.
Protection of Ecosystems - Investments were made in three strategic areas in the Protection of Ecosystem
component:
Atlantic Forest - activities were concentrated in 5 states where the most important remnants of the Atlantic
Forest are located: Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Parana and Santa Catarina. Several goals
were reached in these states:
*   16 Preservation Units, including parks, ecological stations and biological reserves, were
created/strengthened, covering an area of 451,845 hectares which are now open to public visitation as
well as to research activity. During Project implementation, from 1991 to 1996, over 330,000 visitors
and 210 research projects were undertaken in these units;
*   In all states covered by this sub-component, surveillance systems were either restructured or
strengthened between states environmental agencies and forest police force, which now have the tools
to monitor over 43,000 sq. km, or 45%, of the Atlantic Forest area in the country;
*   Project funds supported Environmental Education Activities in this ecosystem (training of 190,000
persons in 28 municipalities of Espirito Santo), satellite monitoring systems of the forest, and mapping
of the Atlantic Forest Biosphere Reserve.
Pantanal - special attention given by the Ministry of the Environrent and by the Project yielded major
positive results:
o   Economic and ecological zoning of the Pantanal and its tributary basin (361,666 sq. km);
-   Preparation of a Preservation Plan for the Upper Paraguay River Basin which resulted - for the first
time in the country - in a regional integrated and sustainable development plan;
*   Establishment of an Integrated Management Committee of the Upper Paraguay River Basin, which is
considered as a model for the establishment of a new water resources management system, set by law
at the beginning of 1997;
*   Institutional strengthening of state environmental agencies in the states of Mato Grosso and Mato
Grosso do Sul: restructuring and provision of equipment for the monitoring systems in those states,
including their forest battalions.
Coastal Zone - As this is the oldest settlement area of the country, and with the highest demographic
concentration and urban rates, only with the National Environmental Project that essential tools for its
effective management have been achieved. During the implementation period of the Project, significant
progress were made:
*   Environmental zoning (at scale of 1: 1,000,000) of the entire coastal zone of the country, from Amapa
to Rio Grande do Sul (7,367 km, and an area of 389,000 sq. km). This region encompasses 17 states,
367 municipalities, and a population of 32.5 million (1991);
- 18 -



*   Zoning (in scale of 1:100,000) of 8 states (Maranhao, Rio Grande do Norte, Bahia, Espirito Santo, Rio
de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Santa Catarina e Rio Grande do Sul) representing 40% of the Brazilian coast;
*   Equipping of environmental and planning agencies in these states with geo-processing systems, and the
monitoring capacity of the coast by means of satellite information and the formation of a critical mass
of experts to operate these systems.
Southern Coast of Rio de Janeiro - As it is a strategic area for the development of the country, which is
currently undergoing economic growth in the industry, service and infrastructure sectors, the development
of studies and the preparation of institutional and planning tools were requested for environmental
management of the tributary basins of Sepetiba and Ilha Grande bays. These Bays are located in southern
region of the state of Rio de Janeiro, encompassing 14 municipalities over a total area of 4.135 sq. km,
with a population of 1,809,100 inhabitants, (1991 Demographic Census).
Sepetiba Bay - design of a Macro Management Plan for the bay, including the following planning and
management tools:
*   Tools for controlling the use of soil and of water resources, making up for a set of policies and land use
zoning which promote the harmonization of the economic development process of the region and the
protection, rehabilitation and the maintenance of environmental balance;
:   Water & Sewage Master Plan covering and setting hierarchy of actions related to the existing demand
and those generated by future development of the region (water, sewage, drainage, waste, and vector
control), and including an implementation plan, plus tools and mechanisms for its management;
*   Pollution Control Strategy, with emphasis in industrial pollution, and including the proposal of
appropriated typology for the basin as well as tools for economic control linked to desired
environmental parameters and goals, which are selected in view of its critical role in the region.
Ilha Grande Bay - design of the Management Project for the Environmental Sustainable Development of
the Tributary Basin of the Ilha Grande Bay, comprising of:
*  Diagnosis of the Environment and of the carrying capacity of the basin (preparation of maps, data
banks, environmental assessments and thematic maps; analysis of natural resources use and of
polluting activities; identification of stakeholders, plan and project appraisals, valuation of natural
resources, political and institutional assessment, determination of social and environmental supporting
capacity);
*  Action Alternatives (estimates, guidelines, definition of integrated envirornental management actions,
and for public information; plans for the use of the soil and of the natural resources, prevention of
environmental risks, water and sewage and the zoning of urban areas, rehabilitation of forest and
marshlands, information and environmental education plans).
Decentralized Execution Projects - Starting in 1994, the National Environmental Project, jointly with 19
state governments, implanted a set of initiatives implemented by municipalities in joint-ventures with other
municipalities, community and non-governmental organizations. These projects were designed to increase
economic activity, distribute results amongst broad range of stakeholders, and promote ecological
sustainability and community participation. Results are as follows:
*   89 projects were implemented in the areas of fishery, rehabilitation of river bank vegetation,
agroforestry systems, ecological tourism, rehabilitation and sustainable use of natural resources,
benefiting 19,000 households (or about 95,000 people);
- 19 -



*   during implementation 541 entities from public and private sectors were involved (92 implementing
municipalities, and 185 municipalities in co-management, 112 state government agencies, 7 federal
agencies, and 145 community and non-government agencies).
Besides testing and disseminating sustainable development models, yielding economic results immediately
appropriated by communities and people, the implementation of these projects increased the capacity of the
local implementing agencies in terms of administration, planning, and management of funds from
multilateral finance organizations. In many localities, the administrative procedures developed for the
management of these projects are being incorporated into their current administrative procedures.
7. Lessons Learned
Lessons learned during the implementation of the National Environmental Project are summarized as
follows:
*   Good performance in Projects of this nature depends mainly on the stability of administrative
regulations and the economic stability of the Country, particularly related to the flow of funds and
confornity to the initially established disbursement schedules. Projects included under the Program
must have their objective and expected results well-defined, with feasible deadlines for activities, and
compatibility with the effective capacity of implementing agents;
* Decentralization of funds to the states and municipalities is effective only if the environmental and
sustainable development objectives sought by the Program are included among the priorities defined in
the development or governmental plans of these states and municipalities, preferably prior to the
request of funding. During the decentralization process, states and municipalities must demonstrate
objectively that these priorities will be maintained, that they have, or can set up within a reasonable
period of time, the administrative and technical capacity needed for the implementation of projects, and
above all, that the implementing teams have their stability assured (otherwise funds may be lost due to
the discontinuity of the activities or due to increase in expenditures with training at every change in the
administration).
e  Institutional strengthening projects, or those linked to the usual activities of environmental
organizations, generally produce little or no effectiveness at all unless they are undertaken within the
context of other projects which are guided towards end activities or concrete environmental results;
*   Investments to consolidate Conservation Units tend to become sustainable in the long term only if they
are combined with activities involving the surrounding communities. It is important that these
communities recognize these Units as a benefit and an asset to be preserved (leisure opportunity,
generation of new economic activities and of employment, preservation of environmental goods and
service of common use, such as the provision of water supply, etc.);
*   Investments made in sustainable development in the context of the strategy used in the "Decentralized
Execution Projects" has shown to be highly effective as they allowed the fulfillment of genuine
demands from municipalities and communities, broadening the participation of those communities and
their organizations in the decision-making process, and enhancing municipalities' and
non-governmental organizations' capacities for designing sustainable projects. However, the
decentralization of direct federal environmental management to municipalities, based on a large number
of projects distributed over the national territory, creates the risk of fragmentation and scattering of
funds resulting in high supervision, technical assistance and evaluation costs. Thus, the participation
of the states in this process is indispensable: from identification of priority areas to monitoring,
supervision and technical assistance activities to executing agents. The constant involvement of local
actors results in lower indirect costs for the implementation of projects.
- 20 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a
- 21 -



10. Additional Information
State            PED Project Names (Principal Municipality)
Acre               * Agroforestry and Ecotourism (Xapuri)
* Agroforestry Systems Associated with Apiculture to Rehabilitate Degraded
Areas (Senador Guimard)
* Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas (Acrelandia)
* Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas using Agroforestry (Bujari)
* Establishment of Agroforestry Poles (Rio Branco)
Amapa              * Establishment of Agroforestry Systems (Serra do Navio)
* Environmental Protection and Fisheries Development (Tartarugalzinho)
Para               0 Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas (Uruari)
* Production of Native Seedlings (Irituia)
* Development of Tocantins and Ilhas Basin (Abaetetuba)
* Sustainable Development of Northeast Para (Santa BNrbara do Para)
* Sustainable Development AlteSatives for Small Agricultural Producers (Marab
a)
 Sutial Mangmn an Seedlin Production (Ponta de Pedras)_ 
Rondonia           * Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas in Scrublands (Castanheiras)
* Integrated Rural Production (Cacaulandia)
* Rural Development and Ecology Project (Campo Novo de Rondonia)
*Fisheries, Preservation, Support and Basic Infrastructure (Cabixi)
* Mixed Use of Forest Areas: Agroforestry Systems in Scrublands (Nova
Brasilandia do Oeste)
* Mixed Use of Forest Areas: Management of Forest Reserves (Nova Brasilandia
do Oeste)
Roraima            * Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas and Ecotourism Development in Indigenous
Areas (Normandia)
* Conservation and Recovery of Water Resources in Boa Vista (Boa Vista)
* Fluvial Shoreline of Rio Branco (Caracarai)
Maranhao           0 CITUSA/Itaipava - Pilot Project to Rehabilitate Degraded Lands (Grajaut)
Rio Grande do      0 Rehabilitation of the Caatinga in the Apodi-Mossoro and Piranhas-Assu Basins
Norte                (Assfi)
* Rehabilitation and Management of Forest Resources (Ceari Mirim)
* Environmental Management of the Caatinga (Caic6)
* Rehabilitation and Integrated Forest Development (Lajes)
* Environmental Management of the Caatinga (Martins)
* Rehabilitation of Caatinga (Sao Josd do Campestre)
-22 -



Paraiba           * Environmental Management of the Caatinga, Mata-do Brejo and Mata do
Agreste Ecosystems for the Areia, Alagoa Grande, Arara and Borborema
Consortium (Areia)
* Management and Rehabilitation of the Caatinga in Campina Grande (Campina
Grande)
* Rehabilitation of the Caatinga (Patos)
* Optimization of Microbasins (Sao Joao do Tigre)
* Minimization of the Degradation of the Caatinga and Mata do Agreste
Ecosystems for the Souza, Uirauna, Santa Helena and Triunfo Consortium
(Souza)
* Protection and Conservation of the Caatinga and Mata do Agreste Ecosystems
for the Umbuzeiro and Nutura Consortium (Umbuzeiro)
Pemrnambuco       * Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas (Araripina)
* Mixed Use Forestry Development (Bonito)
* Ecotourism Development in Fernando de Noronha (Fernando de Noronha
District)
* Establishment of Atlantic Forest Biosphere Reserve (Itapissuma)
Bahia             * Cultivation of Ornamental Species (Mucuge)
* Alternative Fuels for Limestone Production (Iraquara)
* Conservation and Management of Rio Joanes (Lauro de Freitas)
* Sustainable Fishery Development (Alcoba9a)
* Integrated Socio-Environmental Management of the Almada River Basin
(Almadina)
Espirito Santo    0 Conservation and Rehabilitation of Coastal Ecosystems (Anchieta)
_ Agriculture and Environmental Alternatives (Colatina)
Rio de Janeiro    * Sustainable Development of Ilha Grande (Angra dos Reis)
* Rehabilitation of the Quimbira and Marimbondo River Basins (Cardoso
Moreira)
* Rehabilitation of the Rio das Pedras Basin Ecosystems (Itatiaia)
Minas Gerais      * Fisheries Development in the Furnas Lagoon (Alfenas)
* Rehabilitation and Preservation of the Water Quality and Quantity (Cachoeira
de Minas)
* Sao Francisco - Tourism Development (Delfin6polis)
* Integrated Management of Natural Resources in the Riberao Pedra Branca
Sub-Basin (Ipatinga)
* Rehabilitation of the Riverine Environment and Soil Conservation of the Upper
Sao Francisco (Lagoa da Prata)
* Integrated Control of the Water Quality of Lagoa Santa (Lagoa Santa)
* Development of Nature Tourism (Lima Duarte)
* Integrated Management of Natural Resources in the Rio Bananal Basin
(Salinas)
* Integrated Management of the Sao Joao River Sub-Basin (Sete Lagoas)
* Fishery Management (Tres Marias)
* Rehabilitation , Preservation and Socio-Economic Development of Turmalina
(Turmnalina)
* Integrated Management of the Santana River Basin (Varginha)
-23-



Sao Paulo         0 Rehabilitation of the Marimbondo Reservoir (Barretos)
* Sustainable Use of the Iguape, Cananeia and Ilha Comprida Estaurine Complex
(Ilha Comprida)
* Sustainable Agriculture Pilot Program (Jucupiranga)
* Public Water Spring Supply Protection Project (Piracicaba)
* Rehabilitation of the Alto Fortuna Basin (Presidente Venceslau)
* Clean Agriculture (Taruma)
Parana            * Araucaria: Conservation of Biodiversity and Sustainable Use of Forest
Resources (Bituruna)
* Ecotourism, Environmental Valuation and Recuperation (Campo Mourao)
* Rio Andrada: Rehabilitation and Sustainable Use (Cascavel)
* Restoration of Fishery Capacity in Guaratuba Bay (Guaratuba)
* Rehabilitation of Sao Joao Riverine System (Sao Jorge do Patrocinio)
* Conservation of the Rio Miringuava Basin (Sao Jose dos Pinhais)
Santa Catarina    0 Restoration of Coastal Lagoons (Laguna)
* Associated Rice and Aquaculture (Paulo Lopes)
* Sustainable Development of Mollusk Production (Bombinhas)
Rio Grande do Sul   * Ecotourism in Coastal Flatlands (Mostardas)
* Agroforestry Development with Recuperation and Conservation of Natural
Resources (Almaral Ferrador)
* Integrated Municipal Development (Riozinho)
* Integrated Ecological Corridor on the North Coast (Os6rio)
* Sustainable Development of Quarta Colonia (Faxinal do Sotourno)
* Sustainable Ecotourism for the Cima da Serra Region (Cambari do Sul)
Goias              0 Creation of Four Ecotourism Centers (Alto Paraiso)
* Protection and Preservation of Water Resources in the Alto Araguaia Basin
(Araguapaz)
* Alternative Medicine: Plant Therapy (Diorama)
* Rehabilitation and Preservation of the Turvo River (Firmin6polis)
* Rehabilitation and Management of the Meia Ponte River Basin (Goiania)
Federal District   * Management Plan for the Gama-Cabeca de Veado Protected Area (CAESB)
* Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas in the Descoberto Protected Area (DER-DF)
* Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas of the J6quei Clube Landfill (SLU-DF)
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
After Project restructuring in 1994, an Annex was added to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement
providing a number of Monitoring and Evaluation Performance Indicators. These indicators did
not seek to measure outcome or impact, only output. As a result, the table below provides a
representative sample of Output Indicators and the results as of the end of the Project.
Expected Output                    Indicator                       Result
Decentralized Execution
Projects (PED)
States become eligible for PED  At least 8 States have become  19 States became eligible for
funds                          eligible                        PED funds
Municipalities, private sector,  A coalition of stakeholders   89 subprojects were
and NGOs participate in PED    implement the PEDs              implemented by the
Municipalities, consortia of
municipalities and usually at
least one other local group
(see Section 10 for a list of
PEDs)
Results of PEDs disseminated   Publications, videos and other  A number of publications and
media are used to publicize    videos from MMA, the States
successful PED State programs    and Municipalities have been
and subprojects                published. See Annex 7 for
some examples.
Institutional Development
Studies on issues of central   At least 12 studies completed and   "The Ecoystems of Brazil and
importance for improved        the results disseminated        the Principle Macrovectors of
environmental protection carried                               Development;" see Annex 7
out                                                            for other published studies
IBAMA is reorganized           Programmed measures for         At Project close, IBAMA had
institutional development of   not been reorganized. Since
IBAMA concluded                 project closing, IBAMA
underwent partial
reorganization, building on
studies and measures
developed under the Project
IBAMA's Electronic Network     At least 80% of LANs are        Network connecting IBAMA
implemented                    functioning; national links in  headquarters and decentralized
place and operational           units in all 27 States is
operational
- 25 -



MMA LAN tied to IBAMANET   The LAN has been procured and   MMA is fully connected to
installed and connected to    IBAMA's electronic network
IBAMA
IBAMA's Remote Sensing        Network has been installed and is  IBAMA's remote sensing
Network is in place and       operational; other units are   laboratory is fully operational;
producing services for internal    receiving satisfactory service  and most of the associated
and external clients                                         laboratories are also fully
operational. All are producing
useful services.
Protection of Ecosystems
Pantanal
Technical reports and thematic    10 maps and corresponding  PCBAP maps were produced
maps                          technical reports developed and    and disseminated.
disseminated (5 each Mato
Grosso do Sul (MS), Mato
Grosso (MT)
Sedimentology of Pantanal study   Study completed and        Study included in PCBAP.
disseminated
Licensing system implemented  System in place, operational and    Mato Grosso and Mato
fully computerized with adequate   Grosso do Sul both
staff, equipment and facilities  significantly increased the
number of licensed enterprises
affecting the Pantanal
Action Plans for enforcement  Uniform Action Plans ratified by   Increased efficiency of
both MS and MT                enforcement systems in MS
and MT by reinforcing local
infrastructure, resulting in
significantly less pressure on
natural resources
River Monitoring Network      Network in place and operational   Mato Grosso has implemented
water-quality monitoring
network; Mato Grosso do Sul
implemented its network and
strengthened its laboratory,
but they are only functioning
moderately.
- 26 -



Water resource classification  System in place and operational    Principal rivers in Alto
system                                                       Paraguay Basin classified (in
accordance with CONAMA
Resolution No. 20/86) and
mapping completed
Atlantic Forest
Conservation Units operational    11 Conservation Units partially    16 Conservation Units
or fully regularized, with    partially or fully regularized,
infrastructure installed in Parana,  with infrastructure installed in
Rio de Janeiro, Santa Catarina,    Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Santa
and Sao Paulo                 Catarina, Espirito Santo and
Sao Paulo
Conservation Units created    3 Conservation Units fully     Topographic and mapping
regulated with state decrees and    studies carried out to create 2
preliminary management plans  Conservation Units in Santa
developed in Santa Catarina   Catarina
Integrated Enforcement Systems   5 Systems in place and fully  5 systems fully operational in
operational, with adequate    Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Santa
equipment and staffing in Parana,  Catarina, Espirito Santo and S
Rio de Janeiro, Santa Catarina,    ao Paulo
Espirito Santo and Sao Paulo
Coastal Zone Management
National Information System for   System guidelines completed and   Applied Information Systems
Coastal Zone                  published                      developed and implemented in
8 States and at the National
Coordination level
Thematic maps of Coastal Zone    Maps at 1: 100,000 scale    Zoning diagnostics and
completed and published       projects with thematic maps
developed in 8 states
Management Plans              8 states have developed and    Management Plans identifying
submitted proposals for       priority actions developed in 6
implementing sectoral actions  states
agreed among stakeholders
Consolidation of Legal base   Draft legislation prepared to be    Paper about the legislation
presented to State Assembly of    applicable to the coastal zone
Rio de Janeiro                prepared in Rio de Janeiro.
Conservation Units (UCs)
- 27 -



Management Plans for UCs        At least 5 new plans are         8 Management Plans
approved by IBAMA; at least 7    developed in following UC's:
outdated plans revised and      PARNA do Jau, PARNA da
approved by IBAMA               Chapada dos Veadeiros,
REBIO Comboios, REBIO
Augusto Rusche, REBIO
Uatuma, REBIO Anavilhanas,
PARNA da Lagoa do Peixe
and PARNA da Serra do
Divisor. Of these, 6 Plans
approved by IBAMA. The
Plan for PARNA de Brasilia
was revised and approved.
Emergency Action Plans          At least 15 Plans approved by    22 Emergency Action Plans
IBAMA                           developed
Basic infrastructure for UCs    At least 80% of UCs included in    Basic infrastructure installed
NEP have installed basic        or repaired in all UC's covered
infrastructure as called for in  under the project
Action and Management Plans
Assessment or demarcation of    At least 80% of UCs slated for   5 UC's demarcated: PARNA
UC boundaries                   demarcation or assessment have    marinho Fernando de
completed such activities       Noronha, PARNA de Serra do
Cipo, ESEC Carijos, REBIO
Abufari (90%) and PARNA
da Chapada Diamantina.
Training of UC staff            200 staff trained in planning,   Completed (greatly
administering and managing of   surpassed).
UCs
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
" '-' ,,',L_ 31 Wg e9 lEto. i W~~~41 8
Conservation Units                                          43.20             41.80              97
Protection of Ecosystems                                    52.50             36.50              70
Institutional Development                                   50.60             27.90              55
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                2.70              15.80            585
Decentralized Execution Projects (PED)                       0.00             60.50                0
PROARCO (re-allocation)                                                        2.90                0
Total Baseline Cost                                        149.00            269.00
Physical Contingencies                                      6.00              0.00               0
Price Contingencies                                        11.40               0.00               0
Total Project Costs                  166.40            269.00
Total Financing Required                   166.40            269.00
- 29 -



(roject Costs by Procurem       90t Arran1ements (Apraisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
1. WoSrs                         0.00           12.30          4.30           0.00           16.60
(0.00)         (8.60)        (3.00)          (0.00)         (11.60)
2. Goods                         13.00          22.10          3.30           0.00           38.40
(9.1I0)       (15.70)         (2.30)         (0.00)        (27.10)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           55.90          0.00           55.90
(0.00)         (0.00)        (39.30)         (0.00)         (39.30)
4. Operating Costs               0.00           0.00           55.50          0.00           55.50
(0.00)         (0.00)        (39.00)         (0.00)        (39.00)
Total                         13.00          34.40         119.00          0.00           166.40
(9.10)        (24.30)        (83.60)         (0.00)        (117.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govenunent units.
Project Financing by Cormonent (in US$ million equivalent)
Conservation Units       22.70     25.90      0.00       13.30     11.30     17.20    58.6   43.6   0.0
Protection of Ecosystems  46.80     11.60     0.00      25.80      10.70      0.00     55.1   92.2   0.0
Institutional Development    45.10  11.20     0.00      20.30       7.50      0.00    45.0   67.0   0.0
Project Management,       2.40      0.70      0.00       10.30      5.50      0.00    429.2  785.7   0.0
Monitoring and Evaluation
Decentralized Execution   0.00      0.00      0.00      42.40      18.20      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Projects (PED)
PROARCO (re-allocation)    0.00     0.00      0.00       2.90       0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Cancellation of Unused Loan Balance
On April 26, 2000, the Bank canceled the unused balance of US$5,178,524.30.
-30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Prect Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty             Perform   eRating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count      Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation        2   Anthropologist, Environmental
10/87                             Specialist
6/88                         2   Anthropologist, Environmental
Specialist
2/89                         3   Anthropologist, Environmental
Specialist, Institutions Specialist
5/89                         3   Anthropologist, Environmental
Specialist, Institutions Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/89                        4   Anthropologist,
Environmental Specialist,
Institutions Specialist,
Procurement Specialist,
2/90                         3   Anthropologist, Legal Counsel,
Procurement Specialist
Supervision
05/91                         4  Economist, Anthropologist,          U                 U
Environmental Officer,
Procurement Specialist
10/91                        2  Anthropologist, Economist            U                 U
1/92                         2  Anthropologist, Economist            U                 U
5/92                         2  Anthropologist, Financial            U                 U
Management Specialist
12/92                        2  Anthropologist, Economist            S                 S
7/93                          4  Anthropologist, 2 Economists,
Environmental Specialist (HQ)
1/94                         6  Division Chief, Anthropologist,      S                 S
2 Institutional Specialists,
Economist, Environmental
Consultant
11/94                        6  Anthropologist, 3 Economists,        S                 S
Environmental Specialist,
Environmental Consultant
7/95                         3  Anthropologist, Environmental        S                 S
Specialist, Information Specialist
2/96                          2  Anthropologist, Environmental       S                 S
Specialist
7/97                          4  Anthropologist, 2 Environmental     S                 S
Specialists, Environmental
Consultant
12/98                        2  Anthropologist, Lead                 S                HS
Environmental Specialist
- 32 -



ICR
3/99                          1   Anthropologist 2                     S                HS
6/99                          3   Anthropologist, 2                    S                HS
Enviromnental Specialists
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation              116.2                       182.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                    11.4                        25.9
Supervision                            315.6                        642.3
ICR                                       4.2                         7.8
Total                                   447.4                       858.4
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies
M Sector Policies                             OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
C Physical
O Financial
2 Institutional Development                   0H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
XEnvironmental                               *OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
Social
10 Poverty Reduction
O Gender
10 Other (Please specify)
1 Private sector development
O Public sector management                    O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Other (Please specify)
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS OS *U OHU
E Supervision                                          *HS OS   Ou   OHU
[  Overall                                             OHS OS   O  u  O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                                Rating
X Preparation                                          OHS S    Ou         O HU
2 Government implementation performance                O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                    OHS OS   O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                              OHS OS  OU O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Conservacao Ambiental no Brasil - Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente 1991-1996. Ministerio do Meio
Ambiente, dos Recursos Hidricos e da Amaz6nia Legal (MMA), 1997. 220 p.
Avaliacao Final - Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente. Ministerio do Meio Ambiente, dos Recursos Hidricos e
da Amaz6nia Legal (MMA), Programa Nacional das Nacoes Unidas para o Desenvolvimento (PNUD) 1997. 90 p.
The Ministry of Environment has on file a list of approximately 600 documents produced as part of the Project.
These documents can be made available upon request.
- 36 -



