Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIL USE ONLY
Ltd. 3I754-R.
Repont No. 8146-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
January 31, 1990
Country Department 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 24, 1989)
Currency Unit                            = Brazilian New Cruzado (NCz$)
US$ 1.00                                 = NCz$ 6.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                              = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                         = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                           = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)                 = 100 hectares = 0.386 sq miles
1 nautical mile                          = 1853 meters
1 cutiic meter (m3)                      = 1.31 cubic yards or 264.2 US
gallons
1 kilogram (kg)                          = 2.2 pounds
1 ton                                    = 1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
IBAMA (THE EXECUTING AGENCY'S FISCAL YEAR)
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMFCUL US ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABEHA               Associacao Brasileira de Entidades de Heio Ambiente
(Brazilian Association of Environmental Entitiea)
APA                 Area de Protecao Ambiental (Environmental Protection
Area)
BA                  State of Bahia
BAP                 Bacia do Alto Paraguai (the Upper Paragual Basin -
Pantanal)
CEPED/BA            Centro de Pesquisa/Bahia (Center for Research, State of
Bahia)
CETEC/MG            Fundacao Centro Tecnologico de Minas Gerais (Foundation
"Technological Cente;", Minas Gerais)
CETESB/SP           Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental, Sao
Paulo (Company for Environmental Sanitation Technology,
Sao Paulo)
CIRM                Comissao Interministerial para os Recursos do Mar
(interministerial Commission for the Resources of the
Sea)
CNIA                Centro Nacional de Informacao Ambiental (National Center
for Environmental Information)
CNPq                Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e
Tecnologico (National Council for Scientific and
Technological Development)
COGERCO             Coordenacao do Gerenciamento Costeiro (the Coordination
Group for Coastal Management)
CONAMA              Conselho Nacional de Meio Ambiente (National
Environmental Council)
DIRAF               Diretoria de Administracao e Financas/IBAMA (IBAMA's
Directorate for Administration and Finance)
DIRCOF              Diretoria de Controle e Fiscalizacao/IBAMA (IBAMA's
Directorate for Control and Fiscalization)
DIREC               Diretoria de Ecosistemas/IBAMA (IBAMA's Directorate for
Ecosystems)
DIRPED              Diretoria de Incentivo a Pesquisa e Divulgacao/IBAMA
(IBAMA's Directorate for Incentives to Research and
Information)
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance
of their offical dutiesL Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Wotld Bank authodrzation.



- ii -
DMI/RG             Departamento de Meio Ambiente/Rio Grande do Sul
(Department of Environment, Rio Grande do Sul)
DNAEE              Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
(National Department of Water and Electric Energy,
electric sector regulatory agency).
DNPM               Departamento Nacienal de Produ%ho Mineral (National
Department for Mineral Production/Ministry of Mines and
Energy)
ELETROBRAS         Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (Federally-owned
electric utility holding company)
ELETRONORTE        Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
ES                 State of Espirito Santo
FATMA              Fundacao de Amparo a Tecnologia e Meio Ambiente - Santa
Catarina (State Environmental Foundation - Santa
Catarina)
FEMA               Fundacao Estadual de Meio Ambiente - Mato Grosso (State
Environmental Foundation - Mato Grosso)
FEEHA              Fundacao Estadual de Engenharia de Meio Ambiente do
Estado do Rio de Janeiro (State Foundation of
Environmental Engineering of Rio de Janeiro)
FLONA              Floresta Nacional (National Forest)
FUNAI              Fundacao Nacional do Indio (National Indian Foundation)
IBAMA              Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos
Naturais Renovaveis (Brazilian Institute for Environment
and Natural Renewable Resources (Ministry of the
Interior))
IBDF               Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development/formerly
part of the Ministry of Agriculture)
IBGE               Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
IEF                Instituto Estadual de Florestas
INPE               Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas Espaciais (the National
Institute for Space Research)
ITCF               Instituto de Terras, Cartografia e Florestas - Parana
IUCN               International Union for the Conservation of Nature
KfW                Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Bank for
Reconstruction/German Federal Republic)



- iii -
MA                 Ministerio da Agricultura (Ministry of Agriculture)
HHU                Ministerio de Habitacao, Urbanismo e Meio Ambiente
(hinistry of Housing, Urban Affairs and the
Environment/extinct in 1989)
MIC                Ministerio da Cultura (Ministry of Culture)
MINTER             Ministerlo do Interior (Ministry of the Interior)
MM                 Ministerio da Marinhs (Ministry of the Marine)
MM                 Ministerio das Minas e Energia (Ministry of Mines and
Energy)
MT                  State of Mato Grosso
MS                  State of Mato Grosso do Sul
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
OEMA               Orgao Est-dual do Meio Ambiente (State level
environmental agency)
PADCT              Programs de Apoio a Ciencia e Tecnologia (CNPq),(the
program of support for science and technology)
PCBAP              Plano de Conservacao da Bacia do Alto Paragual
(Conservation Plan for the Alto Paraguai Basin
(Pantanal))
PCU                Project Coordination Unit (Nucleo de Coordenacao Geral
do Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente)/IBAMA
PNGC               Plano Nacional de Gerenciamento Costeiro (The National
Plan for Coastal Management)
PNMA               Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente (National
Environmental Program)
POA                Plano Operativo Anual (Annual Operating Plan)
PR                 State of Parana
RADAMBRASIL        Satellite Imagery Agency/ part of IBGE
RENIMA             Rede Nacional de Informacao sobre o Meio Ambiente
(National Environmental Information Network)
RIMA               Relatorio de Impacto de Meio Ambiente (Environmental
Impact Assessment)
RJ                 State of Rio de Janeiro



- iv -
RN                 State of Rio Grande do Norte
RS                 State of Rio Grande do Sul
SADEN              Secretaria de Assesoramento da Defesa Nacional
(Secretariat for Advice in National Defense
(Presidency))
SC                 State of Santa Catarina
SEAMH              Secretaria Estadual de Agricultura e Meio Ambiente
-Espirito Santo
SECIRM             Secretaria da Comissao Interministerial para os Recursos
do Mar (Secretariat of the Interministerial Commission
responsible for the Resources of the Sea)
SEMA               Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente (former Special
Secretariat for the Environment, until 1988 part of the
Ministry of Housing, Urban Development and the
Environment)
SEPLAC             Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenacao (IBAMA) (The
Secretariat for Planning and Coordination (IBAMA))
SEPLAN             Secretaria de Planejamento da Presid@ncia da Repdb'ica
(Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency of the
Republic/has status of a Ministry)
SIGERCO            Sistema de Informacoes do Gerenciamento Costeiro (the
Information System for Coastal Management)
SINIE              Sistema Nacional de Informacoes Espeleologica4JNational
Information System for Caverns
SINIMA             Sistema Nacional de Informacoes sobre o Meio Ambiente
(The National Information System for the Environment)
SINUC              Sistema Nacional de Unidades de Conservacao (the
National System of Conservation Units)
SISNAMA            Sistema Nacional do Meio Ambiente (The National
Environmental System/comprises federal and state level
environmental agencies)
SMA                Secretaria de Meio Ambiente - Sao Paulo
SP                 State of Sao Paulo
SPHAN              Secretaria do PatrimOnio Hist6rico e Artlstico Nacional
(Secretariat for the National Historical and Artistic
Heritage/Ministry of Culture)
SSMA               Secretaria de Saude e Meio Ambiente - Rio Grande do Sul



- v -
STN                Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional (National Treasury
Secretariat)
SUDEPE             Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Pesca (former
Superintendency for the Development of Fisheries, until
February 1989 part of the Ministry of Agriculture)
SUDHEVEA           Superintendencia da Borracha (former Superintendency for
the Development of Natural Rubber, until February 1989
part of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce)
UN                 United Nations
UNDP               United Nationa Development Programme
VW                 World Wildlife Fund



- vi -
BRAZIL
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS .........................i 
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY .1
II.  THE ENVIRONMENT SECTOR.                                                  4
A. Environmental Strategy, Legislation, Policies and
Institutions.                                                     4
B. Environmental Management and Protection.                          7
C. The National Patrimony of the Ecosystems of the Amazon,
Pantanal, Atlantic Forest and Brazilian Coast .8
D. Past Bank Strategy and Lending for Environmental Programs ....l
III. THE PROJECT                               ..... 12
A. Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement          .     .    .12
B. Proiect Obiectives               ....12
C. Project Description .     . ..........................           13
1. Summary                ...................... 13
2. Detailed Features .      . ......................... 15
a. Conservation Units ...........................           15
(i) Consolidation of Existing Conservation
Units                      .. 15
(ii) Establishment of Model Conservation
Units ...........                                   16
(iii) Establishment of New Conservation
Units ................                              16
(!.v) Training .................                         1
(v) Strengthening of the National System of
Conservation Units .17



_ vii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
b. Protection of Ecosystems   .         .....  . ... ..... * .... 18
(i) Pantanal    ...18
(ii) Atlantic Forest.                        . . .20
(iii) Brazilian Coast .21
c. institutional Development .22
Mi) Strengthening of IDAMA .22
(ii) Support for Environmental Action
Programs    ...25
(iii) Technologies for Environmental
Management  . .26
(iv) Environmental Education.....          ............. 27
3. Project Cost .28
4. Financing Plan .30
IV.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                . . .31
A. Organization
1. Project Management .31
2. Monitoring and Evaluation .34
3. Flnancial Management, Accounts and Auditi .             .35
B. Procurement    ..37
C. Disbursements and Special Account                  .       .        .38
V.        PROJECT JUSTIFICATION            .     .     ...... . ....                40
A. Benefits                 ......... 40
B. Risks  . .41
VI. AGREEMENTS .41



- viii -
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1.         IBAMA Organizational Chart .................      ........... 44
Annex 2.         IBAMAs Proiect Xmplementaticn .................       ..... 45
Annex 3.         Proiect Components by year .............................49
Annex 4.         Summary Accounts by year ... ..... .0. . . ... .... .... **....50
Annex 5.         Financing Plan .......................................... Sl
Annex 6.         ScheduLle of Disbursements..... ......   .o .............. ..52
Annex 7.         List of Conservation Units included under the
Conservation Units Component      ....     ... ........53
Annex 8.         Coastal Management; Legal and Institutional Fratework ... 56
Annex 9.         Monitoring and Evaluation....#* ......*..............57
Annex 10.        Documents available in the Proiect File        .... 70
MAPS
Map 1 - Fed-eral Conservation Units (IBRD Map 22019)
Map 2 - Conservation Units of the Atlantic Forest (IBRD Map 22020)
Map 3 - The Pantanal (IBRD Map 22059)
Map 4 - Brazil: Natural Vegetation (IBRD Map 22018)



BRAZIL
NATIONAL ENVIROWMENTAL PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers            Federative Republic of Brazil
Ezecuting Aaencv:    Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos
Naturais Renovaveis (lBAMA).
Amounts              USS 117 million equivalent.
Termst               Repayable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:       The project would benefit Brazil's federal and state
level environmental agencies.
Proiect Obiectives
and Descriptiont    The objectives of the project are to strengthen
(i) the protection of the country's most important
conservation areas and imminently endangered
ecosystems, with special emphasis on the reduction of
economic and environmental losses associated with
uncontrolled deforestation, soil erosion, ond air and
water pollution in the Pantanal, Legal Amazon,
Atlantic Forest and Brazilian Coast, (ii) the
institutions of the environmental sector, with special
emphasis on the strengthening of IBAMA and State
Agencies in the Legal Amazon and Pautanal, and (iii)
the regulatory framework of the environmental sector.
The project would support the first three-year phase
of Brazil's National Environmental Program (Programa
Nacional do Meio Ambiente--PNHA). It would finance:
ti) the strengthening of the National System of
Conservation Units, through improved protection of
existing conservation areas and establisbment of
additional ones representative of important
ecosystems; (ii) Protection of Ecosystems, providing
environmental management and protection for the
acutely threatened Pantanal, Atlantic Forest, and the
Brazilian coast; and, (iii) Institutiunal Develowment,
by strengthening IBAMA and state level Environmental
Agencies, through the provision of staff training,
equipment, improved technical information, legal and
technicAl assistance programs; improvement of
regulations and technical guidelines for environmental
management; and, environmental education.



-2.
Protect Risks:       One main risk is that the project executing agency,
IBAMI, which has been created only recently, is not
yet fully consolidated, and therefore might experience
problems in ca:rying out this additional program. To
the extent possible, this risk has been addressed in
project designs IBAMA is to be strengthened under the
Institutional Development component, project
implementation arrangements and key staff are already
in place, and detailed operating agreements with
participating states have been designed to assure
project execution at the state level. Risks to the
continuity of the project might arise in connection
with current changes in the Federal Government and
changes in State Governments in 1991. Regarding the
likely commitment of the incoming new Federal
Government, prospects for implementing the project
seem good, given that the president elect advocates
strong environmental programs. While substantial
environmental policy reforms have been enacted in
1989, project success would depend on the
identification and removal of any remaining policies
which might adversely affect the specific goals of
environmental protection in the ecosystems of the
Amazon, Pantanal, Atlantic Forest and the Brazilian
Coast. Under the project, the policy framework would
be addressed through IBAMA sponsored studies of and
proposals for strengthening the legai and policy
framework. It would also be addressed through the
Bank's policy dialogue and Economic and Sector Work.



-3-
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreisn          Total
(US$ M)
A.   Conservation Units                  37.8        5.4            43.2
B.   Protection
of Ecosystems                       47.3       5.2             52.5
C.   Institutional DeveloDment           42.8        7.8            q0.6
D.   Proiect Management,
Monitoring and Evaluation            2.5       0.2              2.7
Total Baseline Costs                    130.4      18.6            149.0
Physical Contingencies               4.8       1.1              5.9
Price Contingencies                 10.9       0.4             11.3
Total Proiect Costs                     146.2      20.2            166.4*
Local     Foreign   Total
Financing Plan (US$ million)
Government                          49.4                 49.4
IBRD                                96.8      20.2     __7.0
Total                                   146.2      20.2      166.4
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)s
Bank FY            1990**    1991       1992      1993
Annual             19.0       35.0      34.9      28.1
Cumulative         19.0       54.0      88.9     117.0
*    includes about US$ 10.1 million in local taxes
**   includes initial deposit of US$ 10 million into the Special Account



-4-
II. THE ENVIRONMENT SECTOR
A. Environmental Strategy. Legislation. Policies and Institutions
2.01     During the 1980s in Brazil, there has been a growing recognition
at the level of Government that sustainable and efficient economic
development can be assured only if development programs are based on sound
natural resource management. The environmental sector has, therefore,
emerged as an area for which analysis of policies, institutions and
strategy has become urgent, and Government has made significant efforts to
establish a systematic policy and institutional framework. Brazil's
environmental sector faces three major issues that Government policy is
attempting to addresst
(i)      the need for better conservation of bioloaical resources: (a) how
best to provide for the long term conservation of representative
samples of all of the country's endemic systems under its National
System of Conservation Units; and (b) how best to protect the most
vulnerable ecosystems - such as the Pantanal wetlands, the
remnants of the Atlantic Forest and parts of the the Brazilian
Coast-, now recognized as on the verge of destruction, from
uncontrolled land clearing, pollution and other harmful
activities;
(i)     the need for strenattenina of the institutional frameworks how
best to equip the institutions of the environment sector for
environmental management, protection, and enforcement of the
existing regulatory framework for environmental licensing,
monitoring, protection and planning; and,
(iii)    the need for further strenQtheninQ of the regulatorv frameworks
(a) how best to harncss the potential contribution of the Amazon
to development, without giving rise to the environmental and
agricultural production problems of recent years, such as the
degradation of soils and loss of forest cover; (b) how to improve
the management of land and water resources in order to reduce the
incidence of soil erosion, water pollution, siltation and the
harmful consequences of these for agricultural production, health
and water management (periodic flooding or water shortages), and
(c) how to address the effects of rapid urbanization and
industrial growth on air pollution, water management and waste
disposal.
2.02     Over the last two years, in parallel to the preparation of the
program that would be supported by the proposed project, the Government has
modified a number of important policies and laws, which conflicted with
environmental protection and management goals. One major action was the
adoption of the *Nossa Natureza' Program for the control of environmental
degradation, especially in the Amazon. It revised the two key policies
which had, until its decree in April 1989, directly contravened
environmental goals. These weret (a) the prohibition of new fiacal
incentives for the establishment of extensive beef cattle schemes in forest
areas in the Amazon (previously, these incentives had been a major cause
for land clearing in rainforest areas); and, (b) the elimination of



-5-
legislation which required land clearing as proof of land occupancy and a
precondition for land titling (this also had been a major cause of land
clearing in the Amazon). The lNossa Natureza' Program also included
measures in support of eztractive sustainable uses of the forest; for the
control of mining (to cut down on the indiscriminate use of mercury); and,
for setting aside large forest areas as National Forests. At the same
time, Government undertook a major institutional reform of the environment
sector, merging the previously dispersed government agencies which had
environmental responsibilities into a single National Environmental Agency
(IBAXA), with greater autonomy in environmental management and protection.
2.03     LeQislation and Policies.  Brazil's national legislation
emphasizes the protection of the environment, primarily through (a) the
Constitution of October 5, 1988 (Art. 225), (b) Law 6,938 of August 31,
1981 and complementary legislation for Amazonia under the 'Our Nature*
Program which amended Law 6,938 and was passed on July 18, 1989 (see
Project File, Environmental Legislation). These laws established the
National Environmental System (SISNAMA), which is constituted by federal,
state, Federal District, territory, municipal and other public entities
responsible for the protection and improvement of environmental quality,
under the guidance of the Conselho Superior do '(eio Ambiente and
coordination of the Conselho Nacional do Meio Ambiente. The 1988
Constitution considers the ecosystems of the Amazon Forest, the Atlantic
Forest and Serra do Mar, the Pantanal Matogrossense and the Coastal Zone
as areas of *National Patrimony" in which the environment must be
preserved. State constitutions and laws may, but only in some cases
effectively do, further detail federal environmental legislation and
standards. State level environmental legislation is likely to be
significantly revised, as new state constitutions are passed (1989/90).
Most of Brazil's environmental laws have been passed in the 19809, and
contributed to a significant increase in environmental considerations in
development planning, and a framework for efficient environmental
administration has been put in place. However, to realize the legislative
mandate, federal and state environmental laws need to be further
strengthened and made consistent with legislation and policies in other
sectors.
2.04     Institutions.  Since February 1989, Brazil has had a single
National Environmental Agency - IBAMA - under the Ministry of the Interior
(Law 7.735 of February 22, 1989). IBAXA substitutes for, and continues the
activities of, four former institutions: the Brazilian Institute for
Forestry Development (IBDF), the Superintendency for the Development of
Fisheries (SUDEPE), and the Superintendency for the Development of Natural
Rubber (SUDHEVEA), under the Ministry of Agriculture; and, the Secretariat
for the Environment (SEMA), under the Ministry of Housing, Urban Affairs
and the Environment. In the medium term, the merging of these institutions
into a single, strengthened agency, provides the prospect of more effective
management of the environment sector. In the short term, IBAMA's
Integration of four predecessor agencies involved a major internal
reorganization, which has been carried out underway rince IBAMA's
administrative statutes and management structure were defined by Government
in July/August 1989; substantial further strengthening is expected to
continue over the coming year.
i



2.05     IBAMA's new structure (Annex 1) has, through the distribution of
responsibilities among its five directorates, assured a certain measure of
continuity in the carrying out of the functions of its predecessor
organizations. For instance, the directorates of 'Control and
Fiscalization' and of *Incentives for Research and Information", retain
largely previous functions and programs of SEMA; the directorate of
Ecosystems continues the conservation related activities of IBDF; and the
directorate of Natural Resources continues the comercially oriented
activities of IBDF, SUDHEVEA and SUDEPE. IBAMA's role as a federal agency
is primarily one of promulgating environmental regulations, and preparing
legislation for approval by CONAMA and Congress; it also provides technical
back-up support functions to the states in the areas of licensing, law
enforcement, training, environmental education and information. As a
successor to IBDF, IBAMA has retained direct operational responsibility for
Brazil's system of Conservation Units (para. 2.10). So far, IBAMA has
taken an active stance in law enforcement, for example in its 1989 campaign
for the prevention of forest fires in the Amazon.
2.06     IBAMA is headquartered in Brasilia and has Superintendencies in
all 25 States. Its operations are funded out of the federal budget and of
its own income, which is generated through fees and fines applied in the
forestry and rubber sectors. Under the 'Nossa Natureza' program a National
Fund for the Environment has been created, which enables IBAMA to receive
financial contributions from a variety of sources and to pass them on to
environmental projects. IBAMA also acts as the Secretariat of the National
Environmental Council (CONAMA), which is composed of all SISNAMA agencies
and representatives of the principal sectors of the economy (energy,
agriculture, mining etc.). CONAMA has an essential role in reviewing
proposals for, and the enforcement of, environmental standards and
legislation.
2.07     Through the 1988 Constitution, most licensing, monitoring,
protection and law enforcement functions have been shifted to the state-
level, where they should be carried out or organized by the State
Environmental Agencies (OEMAs). This change has come at a time, however,
when the majority of state-level agencies lack the resources or technical
capacity to handle these new responsibilities. Most OEMAs have only been
created in recent years (some states, e.g. Acre, still lack one
altogether), and their technical capacities, administrative structure and
powers vary significantly. Some OEMAs are Secretariats for the
Environment; others are foundations, *autarquias' or public enterprises, or
combine (e.g. in the case of Rio de Janeiro) a Secretariat with an
'executive' branch, usually a foundation. Two surveys, which were carried
out in 1986187, showed that with the exception of a handful of states in
the South and Southeast, the OEMAs tended to operate in precarious
conditions, being poorly staffed and equipped, and lacking essential
administrative and financial autonomy. In 1986/87, country-vide total
environmental staff at the OEHAs and SEMA (including all professional
levels) amounted to about 6000. Of these, 50Z were concentrated in Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo alone. Concern with the weakness of most OEMAs has
grown following the promulgation of the 1988 Constitution, and significant
efforts have begun in most states, to create or strengthen their OEMAs.



-7-
B. Envirotmental Manaaement and Protection
2.08     Although there has been marked progress, overall environmental
management and protection remain weak. Enforcement of environmental laws
is only partially effective, because of the constraints under which the
environment sector operates. The use of legal instruments, such as
environmental impact studies (RIMeAs), licensing (and subsequent monitoring
and law enforcement), environmental zoning, and the protection and the
conservation of biodiversity in Conservation Units and in unique ecosystems
have been limited by: (a) severe institutional and funding problems, at the
federal and state levels; (b) a lack of clear standards and guidelines for
the preparation, approval and enforcement of RIMAs, which are mandatory for
all large industrial, mining, infrastructure or agricultural investments;
(c) a lack of well defined regulations; td) a lack of systematic
consideration of environmental factors in regional and sectoral planning;
(e) inconsistencies between environmental law and some broader economic
policies and incentives; (f) a lack of environmental research, as well as
poor use and dissemination of existing scientific information; and, (g) a
lack of public awareness and understanding of environmental issues. As a
result, serious and in part irreversible damage to the environment has
occurred in many areas of Brazil, at high economic and social cost. The
major resulting problems include the sharply accelerated depletion of
natural renewable resources, especially deforestation in frontier areas,
losses in bio-diversity, soil erosion, and air and water pollution.
2.09     If major, irrecuperable losses in genetic materials are to be
avoided, Brazil's conservation system must urgently be strengthened
through increased protection in existing conservation areas and the
designation of additional, carefully selected areas. In order to preserve
some of Brazil's unique ecosystems, which are on the verge of suffering
irreversible losses, localized conservation efforts will not suffice, and
broader regional programs for environmental management, control of land use
and polluting activities, watershed protection and law enforcement for the
protection of flora and fauna will be necessary. Brazil is widely
recognized as possibly containing the richest diversity of genetic
materials in the world, and has been classified as one of the world's six
Omega-diversity countries by the World Wildlife Fund. Major examples of
endemisms in Brazil can be found in the Amazon, the Pantanal wetlands, the
Atlantic Forest, the Cerrado and along the Coast.
2.10     To protect Brazil's biological resources, Government has
established its National System of Conservation Units (SINUC), with the
objective of setting aside and protecting areas essential to the
conservation of bio-diversity. As of July 1989, Brazil had 123 federal
Conservation Units (2.451 of tho national territory) and 205 state
conservation areas. So far, however, the maintenance of this conservation
system, which requires significant research, protection and land tenure
regularization, has been weak, and virtually all of the existing
Conservation Units (Biological and Ecological Reserves, National Parks,
Areas of Environmental Protection, and National Forests) are poorly
protected. The flora and fauna of some are being decimated by encroaching
illegal timber logging, squatters, miners or poachers. Similarly, most
state conservation areas (which have been set aside in addition to the
federal Conservation Units) are also underprotected. Of the federal
Conservation Units, only about one third have full legal title to the land



- 8 -
involved. Some, although created by law, have hardly been managed and
protected. Some Conservation Units have been poorly designed and do not
sufficiently preserve viable and representative tracts of ecosystems. For
several ecosystems, for which no representative samples have been set aside
so far, there is an urgent need for the designation of additional
Conservation Units. And finally, Government sees a need to strengthen the
criteria for establishing conservation priorities and strategies under the
SINUC.
C. The National Patrimony of the Ecosystems of the Amazon. Pantanal,
Atlantic Forest and the Brazilian Coast
2.11     Of Brazil's forests, 78Z are located in the Leaal Amazon (as
defined in Law No. 5374 of December 7, 1967), which comprises an area of
4,978,247 square kilometers. The Amazon rain forests sustain an
ezceptionally rich and diverse plant and animal lifes they are thought to
support some 30,000 species of plant life, whereas only an estimated 10,000
species are thought to exist in all of temperate South America. Similarly,
the Amazon River contains over 2000 known species of fish, eight times the
number in the Hississipi River basin and ten times the number found in all
of Europe. With regard to the conservation of bio-diversity, and the
management of land resources in Brazil, the acceleration of deforestation
of primary rain forests in the Legal Amazon region in the 19809 has become
an acute environmental problem. According to IBDF, in 1987 and in 1988
roughly 20 million hectares of land were cleared per annum, out of which an
estimated 8 million annually may have been primary rainforests. This led
to stepped up Government controls, which - based on preliminary data for
1989 - succeeded in slowing down further land clearings. Land clearing is
considered as negative in most cases, because it sets in motion a chain of
events which result in permanent losses of bio-diversity, sustainable
forest-based production and soil fertility. It causes emissions of C02
into the atmosphere (which over time could attain levels of global
significance in the context of the Ogreenhouseu effect), and massive soil
erosion, with consequent siltation of rivers, floodplains and reservoirs.
Deforestation to date has been most accentuated in the Southwest of Para,
the Northwest of Maranhao, Northern Mato Grosso and Rondonia. The larger
scale economic activities of mining, livestock and agriculture, which in
the areas of the development frontier substitute for traditional rubber
tapping and other extractive, forest based activities, and very small scale
agriculture practiced by Indians or other traditional riverine populations,
are often associated with adverse environmental impacts. Sustainable
agriculture is very rarely achieved under Amazonian soil and climate
conditions. Typically, forests are only briefly replaced by annual crop or
livestock production; large tracts of eroded and weed-infested lands have
already been virtually abandoned by farmers in the 1980s, because their
cultivation on the basis of chemical inputs would be possible only at
exceedingly high costs. There have been no successful reforestation nor
sustainable forest management projects in the Amazon so far.
2.12     Closely related to the question of the occupation of the Amazonian
rainforest areas is that of the adjacent Cerrado, much of which is also
located in the Legal Amazon and covers some 1,9 million sq. km.; the
Cerrado contains relatively little researched savannah-type eco-systems.
However, with recent advances in agricultural research, the Cerrado is



- 9 -
considered by many as a viable alternative to the Amazonian rainforest
areas for the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier. Today, the
equilibrium of the Cerrado eco-system is rapidly changed and possibly
endangered by large scale land clearing for agricultural purposes and for
the provision of charcoal for the iron industry. So far, no Conservation
Units have been created in the Cerrado, and it is therefore considered as
one of the priority areas in which new Conservation Units need to be
designated in order to preserve viable samples of its ecosystems.
2.13     The Pantanal (see Map 3) is the largest wetlands area in South
America. It comprises the entire basin of the Alto Paraguai River, an area
of some 496.000 square kilometers, of which 393.000 square km. are located
in Brazil, in the States of Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul, while the
remainder is located in Bolivia and Paraguay. The Brazilian Alto Paraguai
Basin encompasses two interdependent ecosystems: the so-called Lower Basin
(or Pantanal floodplain) with some 160.000 sq. km., and the Upper Basin (or
Rim). The Lower Basin receives its waters from the Upper Basin and remains
flooded for long periods. The Pantanal floodplain is the habitat for a
unique and extremely rich array of wildlife. In addition to tourism, the
economic importance of the Pantanal is based on livestock activities, which
have been carried out since colonial days, apparently without disturbing
the ecological balance of the region. Since the 19709, this traditional
balance has been upset as a result of the expansion of the agricultural
frontier in the Upper Basin. The principal factors are (a) soil erosion
associated with the large scale, mechanized production of soy beans and
rice; (b) compacting of the soil through the use of heavy farm machinery,
preventing percolation of water, and leading to heavy run-off, increased
erosion and siltation of rivers, and (c) the intensive use of agro-
chemicals, which are washed into the standing waters of the Lower Basin
(the period of the heaviest use of agro-chemicals coincides with the cycle
of the Piracema, a principal species of fish). Fish are also threatened by
uncontrolled overfishing, and, most recently, by the dumping of hazardous
chemicals, especially of large quantities of mercury, used in gold mining.
Fish, in turn, are essential to the food chain that guarantees the survival
of most other wildlife in the Pantanal. Other agents of environmental
degradation are (d) heavy deforestation in the Upper Basin, as well as
along river banks, (e) uncontrolled urban and industrial discharges into
the river system, (f) the construction of dikes and roads, and (g) in the
Lower Basin, large scale predatory hunting of commercially valuable
species, such as alligators ("jacares', prized for their hides), jaguars,
snakes, parrots, etc., and fishing and mining (some of which involves heavy
dredging). As a result of the joint impact of all of these factors,
several species in the Lower Basin, and the survival of the Pantanal eco-
system as a whole are thought to be seriously threatened.
2.14     The Atlantic Forest (Mata Atlantica) of Brazil, which extends
along the Brazilian coast from Rio Grande do Sul to Rio Grande do Norte
(over a length of about 1.600 km. and between 20 and 200 km. inland), has
been classified by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) and the World Wildlife Fund (VWF) -s one of two tropical forests in
the world threatened with imminent extinction. Less than 3Z of the
original pre-colonial forest cover is left, and only a small fraction of
the remaining forest has protected status. The remnants of the Atlantic
Forest are located in the midst of Brazil's most densely occupied and
industrialized regions. Much of the Atlantic Forest has been destroyed in



- 10 -
the process of colonial occupation. Further environmental degradation is
caused today by the combined impact of urban, industrial, mining, land-
clearing and logging activities and by a general lack of law enforcement
and other munagement and protection measures. Today, the remaining forests
are affected by soil erosion, the siltation of rivers, and a reduction in
numbers of plant and animal species. In addition to its importance for the
maintenance of bio-diversity, the remaining Atlantic Forest fulfills other
critical functions, such as protecting steep hillsides from erosion and
landslides in this area of heavy rainfall, and protecting the aquifers of
the country's most populous zones and major cities. The remaining forests
are also home to important resorts and centers of tourism. The Atlantic
Forest is unusually rich in endemisms,- various types of primates and other
manmals, birds and plant species. A variety of ecological sub-systems
exist in the Atlantic Forest, due to its north-south extension and changing
altitudes (ranging from 2000 meters to coastal mangroves and islands along
the coast). Several Conservation Units are located in the Ocean Mountain
Range (Serra do Mar) section between the States of Espirito Santo and Santa
Catarina, where, with a few interruptions around major urban centers or
rivers, a continuous stretch of forest remains intact. However, important
fragments in urgent need of preservation also exist further north (see
Map 2).
2.15     Brazil's Coastal Zone extends over 7.408 km., encompassing 17 of
the nation's 25 states. Government considers environmental planning,
administration and law enforcement mechanisms for Brazil's coastal
ecosystems as largely inadequate. The Coastal Zone has sustained the
greatest environmental changes since early colonial days, but only in
recent years has more attention been given to the need for better knowledge
and protection of the coastal environmunt. The acute pressure on and
potential environmental hazards to land and water ecosystems along Brazil's
coastline result from the highest population concentrations in the country,
and competing urban, industrial, fishing, shipping, tourism and strategic
uses, and prospecting for oil and gas. More than half of Brazil's
population live within less than 60 km of the coast, and most
petrochemical centers and 40 industrial districts are located within the
same range. Off shore, about 1400 drills for petroleum have been carried
out, accounting for approximately 45X of known Brazilian reserves.
Fipheries account for a production of seven to eight hundred thousand tons
per year, although little is known about total potential and the dynamics
of the respective fish populations. In order to contain environmental
dangers posed by industrial hazards, to preserve bio-diversity, and to
maintain the potential for tourism, fisheries and other environmental
services along the coast, environmental management must urgently be
improved. Environmental zoning, planning and protection of biological
resources would be urgent first steps, to contain further degradation. In
this context, and in accordance with the specific legislation and
institutional responsibilities for coastal management (see Annex 8), the
federal government has initiated a program to provide technical assistance
to interested states and municipalities along the coast.
D. Bank Strategy and Past Lending for Environmental Proarams
2.16     Over recent years, environmenta:. issues have assumed increasing
importance in connection with the Bank's program in Brazil, because most
operations have a direct impact on the environment, and, beyond this,



- 11 -
because the Bank's interest in sustainable and efficient economic
development can only be assured if development programs in Brazil are based
on sound natural resource management. Externalities must be fully taken
into account or long-term returns to the economy will be misjudged and
development activities riuk being misoriented. The Bank is concerned with
the impact of envirormental problems on people (among others through
problems in air and water pollution, and sanitation), and of world-wide
effects of environmental problems, such as the deforestation of the Amazon
basin and the extinction of unique species. As an international
organization and a supplier of important financial resources to Brazil, it
has made it part of its strategy asd program to assist Brazil in the
resolution of these problems.
2.17     The overall objective of a medium-term strategy for assisting
Government in the environmental sector in Brazil would be to help put in
place an economically rational system of environmental management and
protection, that addresses the issues of conservation of bio-diversity, the
protection of vulnerable ecosystems, institutional development, and an
adequate regulatory framework. The establishment of a system of
environmental management and protection by the Government of Brazil faces
major constraints: lack of knowledge, lack of appropriate economic
incentives, lack of financial resources, and lack of institutional
capacity. To help overcome these constraints, the Bank's assistance
strategy in the environmental sector is multi-pronged. Through lending
instruments, the Bank is helping to finance freestanding projects and
environmental protection components of projects which have an impact on the
environment, and it is helping to strengthen the institutional capacity of
organizations directly dealing with the environment, as well as of
organizations in other sectors, whose programs might have significant
effects on the environment. Economic and sector work, as well as related
support for ongoing Brazilian technical assessments of the environment, are
being deployed to increase the knowledge-base for the identification of
appropriate economic and other policy incentives and interventions that
would support sound environmental management and protection. In the short-
ternm, four objectives call for immediate supports (i) the strengthening of
Brazil's Conservation System; (ii) the protection of critically endangered
ecosystems, which otherwise might suffer permanent, irreversible losses,
(iii) the strengthening of the institutional capacity to implement and
monitor environmental policies, and (iv) the initiation of a longer term
process to improve the regulatory framework. Over the medium-term, as
environmentally-damaging activities become better understood--both on the
technical and economic fronts-- these institutional regulatory efforts will
have to be supplemented, as appropriate, by more market-oriented policy
instruments such as, pollutant taxes, selective tax-subsidy schemes and
marketable permits.
2.18     The Bank's lending program for Brazil emphasizes a wide spectrum
of environmental issues, including soil erosion, depletion of renewable
resources and bio-diversity, and air and water pollution from industrial or
mining sources. Over the last decade, the Bank has supported
environmental, forestry, and Amerindian protection programs under many of
its projects in Brazil. The Northwest Region Development Projects (Loans
2060, 2116 and 2353-BR) and the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan 2196-BR)
were the first significant environmental programs, which were supported by
the Bank; they had mixed results and provided important lessons regarding



- 12 -
the design and execution of environmental programs. This first set of
projects was followed by the more successful Loans for the Electric Power
Sector (First Electric Power Sector Loan (Loan 2720-BR)), and for Pollution
Control in Sao Paulo (Loans 1822-BR and 2831-BR). The most recent loans in
support of environmental management were the Parana Land Management Project
(Loan 3018-BR) (which, among others, provided funds for start-up
conservation activities in the Atlantic Forest Region of the State of
Parana), and the Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project (Loan 3072-BR). In
1989, the Bank also agreed to reallocate funds under the Northwest Loans to
an emergency campaign for the containment of forest fires in Amazonia. A
major lesson emerging from the experiences under these projects has been
the recognition of the importance of the consistency of the objectives
reflected in the overall economic policy framework, and of any specific
environmental actions supported in project or sectoral lending.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01     Government has, since 1987, financed the preparation of the
proposed project under a national project preparation facility, in
collaboration with UNDP. A special task force for the National
Environmental Program (Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente (PNMA)) was
charged with the responsibility for the project, first within SEMA and now
in IBhMA. As part of the preparation process, several of the activities
proposed under the project have already been organized and start-up
activities are underway with financial support from IBAMA and a number of.
state governments. Based on the range of its project experience in Brazil,
its broad technical and economic work on environmental issues. and its good
dialogue with Government, the Bank appears to be in a singular position to
assist the Government in the implementation of its National Environmental
Program. Within its broader lending strategy for Brazil, considering the
importance of a comprehensive action program for environmental management
and protection in Brazil, the Bank considers the proposed project as one of
its highest priorities. The proposed project would be one of several
proposed Bank activities designed to support the environment sector.
B. Project Obiectives
3.02     The project's objectives would be to strengthen, in accordance
with Brazil's environmental policies, (i) the protection of the country's
most important conservation areas, (ii) the protection of !mminently
endangered ecosystems, (iii) the institutions and the regulatory framework
of the environment sector. In the context of protection activities,
special emphasis would be given to a reduction of economic and
environmental losses associated with uncontrolled deforestation, soil
erosion, and air and water pollution in the ecosystems of the Pantanal,
Amazonia, Atlantic Forest and the Coast. In the context of institutional
development, special emphasis would be given to a strengthening of IBAMA
and of OEHAs in the Amazon and Pantanal. In the context of the regulatory
framework, spe-ial emphasis would be given to the guidelines for RIMAs,
Environmental Zoning, River Basin Management and Ecotoxicology. The



- 13 -
project would be an important element in the context of the government's
broader -.wtempts to integrate environmental considerations into regional
planning and development.
C. Proiect Description
1. ,Sumr
3.03     The project would support the first three-year phase of Brazil's
National Environmental Program (Proarama Nacional do Meio Ambiente--PNMA).
A smmnary of the main components is presented below.
3.04     Conservatio2 Units.  This compouent would supportt (a) protection
and management programs and studies for about 50 existing federal
Conservation Units; (b) development of five of the existing 50 Conservation
Units, which will be supported under the project, into Model Conservation
Units; (c) studies for the establishment of 20, and actual establishment of
5 additional, aew Conservation Units; (d) staff training; and (e)
improvement of methodologies in the selection and management of
conservation areas under the National System of Conservation Units (SINUC),
consolidation of existing federal and state protected areas under a single
national plan for the conservation, and establishment and implementation of
additional areas, as may be required to ensure the protection of the
country's bio-diversity.
3.05     Protection of Ecosysters.  This component would support special
projects for environmental management and protection of the ecosystems of
the Pantanal wetlands, the remnants of the Atlantic Forest and endangered
ecosystems along the Brazilian Coast:
-        For the Pantanal integrated programs would be established in the
States of Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul, for (i) the
containment of pollution of river systems by toxic substances used
in agriculture, mining and industry; (ii) better protection of
flora and fauna by the forest police; (iii) the establishment of a
system for monitoring water quality; (iv) special programs to
reduce the negative impact of "garimpow mining techniques on the
environment; (v) special programs to contain, in collaboration
with agricultural extension services and through afforestation of
river banks, the present degradation of vegetation in the
ecological reserve areas of the Taquari and Sao Lourenco river
sub-basins; (vi) centers for animal rehabilitation; (vii) the
establishment of guidelines and plans for the development and the
conservation of the Basin, (viii) the establishment of an
environmental data bank; (ix) the training of technicians in the
management of Jacare and Capivara animal populations (to develop
breeding techniques for commercial purposes); (x) studies of the
populations and habitat use of alligators (caiman c. yacare);(xi)
environmental education for local populations; and, (xii) the
training and equipment of the Pantanal teams within the state
environmental agencies of Nato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul.



- 14 -
-        For the Atlantic Forest integrated programs would be established
in the States of Santa Catarina, Parana, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro
and Espirito Santo, to (i) protect existing State Conservation
Units, (ii) improve the ecological representativeness of the areas
under conservation through the creation of additional protected
areas, (iii) recover degraded areas, (iv) improve the protection
of watersheds, (v) establish effective law enforcement mechanisms
for pollution control and forest protection; and (vi) strengthen
the OEHAs for purposes of carrying out the specific action
programs.
-        For the Brazilian Coasts  programs would be established, in the
States of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro, Bahia, and Rio Grande do Norte, for environmental
planning, monitoring and protection. Among others, the programs
would initiate longer term improvements in environmental
management through environmental zoning along the Brazilian
coastline (including an area of 6 nautical miles offshore) and
through protection of endangered species in priority locations.
3.06     Institutional Development.  This component would supports
-        the strenathenins of IBAMA, through provision of management
consulting services which would assist with the organization of
IRAMA (completing the merging of lIAMA's predecessor organizations
- SEMA, IBDF, SUDEPE and SUDHEVEA - and defining the
administrative arrangements); staff training; analysis of and
proposals for environmental legislation and policies relevant to
the manAgement of natural resources; establishment of a national
network and a center for environmental information; and the
establishment of three centers for the interpretation of remote
sensing images;
-        support for environmental action programs and training at the
level of OEMAs;
-        imarovement of reaulations and technical iuidelines for
environmenzal management, in connection with Environmental Impact
Statements (RIMAs), environmental zoning, river basin management
and ecotoxicology; and,
-        eavironmental education.
3.07     The first two of these components, Conservation Units and
Protection of Ecosystems, support complementary urgent environmental
protection programs, with a geographical concentration in the highest
priority areas for the protection of bio-diversity in the country. The
third component, Institutional Development, would have broader, country-
wide impact through improvements in the regulatory framework and
strengthening of environmental administration and services through Brazil's
federal and state level envir,)nmental agencies.



- 15 -
2. Detailed Features
a. Conservation Units
3.08     This component would assist IBAMA to carry out its mandate (as a
successor to IBDP) of protecting Brasil's federal Conservation Units. The
project would combine neasures for immediate protection and for medium term
improvements of the SINUC. It would (a) consolidate, develop and manage 50
existing federal conservation unito; (b) establish a total of S model
conservation units, representative of different conservation categories, in
the Pantanal, Amazon and Atlantic Forest regions; Ic) create, implement and
manage new conservation Units in ecosystems which are poorly represented
under the SINUC; (d) train staff for the management and protection of
Conservation Units; and (e) strengthen the National System of Conservation
Units (SINUC), by harmonizing the conservation objectives, functions and
management criteria under the - so far separate - federal and state
conservation systems, and by integrating conservation efforts of IBAMA and
OEKAs   For the Conservation Units component, IBAMA has submitted to the
Bank for its r.view and comments (a) descriptions of the tasks and required
qualifications for each higher level staff or consultant position, (b)
draft terms of reference for studies and other consultant assignments, and
(c) annual operating plans for 1990.
(i) Consolidation of Existing Conservation Units (US$ 31.2 million)
3.09     This sub-component would provide for urgent protection, land
tenure regularization and monitoring needs in priority conservation areas.
Fifty Conservation Units (25 National Parks, 9 Biological Reserves, 10
Ecological Stations, 5 APAs, and 1 state level ecological station) (see in
Annex 7) have been selected by IBAMA, according to a set of priority
criteria, to receive investments for their protection, development ---
management during the First Phase of the PMA. In this context, the
project would strengthen IBAMA's Directorate for Ecosystems, and finance,
as needed, for each of the 50 selected Conservation Units some or all of
the following items:
(a) (i) the establishment of the minimum necessary infrastructure for
the purposes of protection, administration, visitors (National
Parks), and fire prevention; establishment of the required
infrastructure: visitors' centers, headquarters, warehouses, guard
posts, fire detection towers, fences, access roads; (ii) equipment
(trucks, four-wheel drive cars, boats, power generators, radio);
and (iii) maintenance facilities. For each Conservation Unit, a
separate investment plan has been prepared. In 1989, some initial
protection measures have already been carried out in some of the
Conservation Units, under a separately funded emergency campaign
for the containment of forest fires in Amazonia, and especially in
Conservation Units (see para. 2.05);
(b) a land tenure survey, and, to the extent possible, regularization
of land tenure, demarcation and cadastral registration of
Conservation Unit lands   Funds for any indemnifications, which
might be called for in the context of the regularization of land
tenure, would be provided in parallel to the project, out of



- 16 -
IBAhMAs regular budget and by the Governiment's Titulos da Divida
Agraria (these can be used for purposes of conservation of natural
resources, and are made available by Brazil's Monetary Council).
Infrastructure investments would only be made in locations for
which land tenure has been regularized;
(c) preparation of 15 new management plans, which will be essential to
the conservation of bio-diversity in those areas, which are
already under conservation, but still lack the appropriate
management;
(d) review and updating of 10 existing management plans, which need to
be improved, to deal with zoning, control, utilization,
development of buffer zones adjacent to conservation units,
research and other matters, and participation of local
populations; and,
(e) monitoring of Conservation Units.
As a condition for disbursement for each Conservation Unit, IBAMA would
have updated the 1988 baseline data on the status of that Unit.
(ii) Establishment of Model Conservation Units (US$ 5.7 million)
3.10     This sub-component would demonstrate alternative conservation
concepts and the standards which over time should be attained throughout
the SINUC. Five of the fifty Conservation Units, which will be funded
under the project (see Annex 7) will be upgraded to the highest standards,
as Model Conservation U'tAte. Attainment of these standards would not be
possible for all 50 Conservation Units over the coming 3 years, due to the
present constraints on qualified staff. The model units would demonstrate
different conservation concepts and methodologies, and serve training
purposes. The following have been selected as Model Conservation Unitss
one ecological station in Amazonia (Anavilhanas), one ecological station in
the Pantanal (Taiama), one National Park (Monte Pascoal), one Biological
Reserve (Sooretams) and one APA (Serra da Mantiqueira) in the Atlantic
Forest (see MAP (1)). For all five Conservation Units, detailed plans have
been developed as part of project preparation.
(iii) Establishment of New Conservation Units (US$ 3.2 million)
3.11     This sub-component would respond to the need for additional, new
Conservation Units, which are required to ensure the conservation of
representative samples of the country's ecology and biodiversity. The
project will finance:
(a) the preparation of 20 basic studies for the creation of new units:
10 in the first year in highly threatened ecosystems, and 10 in
the second and third year in other ecosystems also indicated as
deficient in Conservation Units;
(b) in accordance with reconmendations of these studies, establishment
(through legal, management and protection arrangements), in the
second and third project year, of at least five new Conservation



- 17 -
Units, giving priority to those most acutely endangered. IBAMA
would seek to legally establish these new Conservation Units by
the end of the second project year, submitting the necessary draft
legislation. The remaining proposed new Conservation Units would
be established during the Second Phase of the PNMA.
(iv) Training (US$ 1.3 million)
3.12     To address the risks posed by the lack of qualified staff in the
area of conservation, the project would, in close collaboration with the
Human Resources division of IBAMA, finance the establishment of a Mobile
School for Conservation Unit Management. The Mobile School would have two
teams of trainers, and would also rely on specialist consultants. Courses
would have an average length of 15 - 20 days, and involve a maximum number
of 20-25 participants each. In each region (North, Northeast, Center West,
Southeast and South) there will be one higher level and one technical level
course per year (this adds up to a total of 10 courses/year). The modules
of the basic curriculum, which already has been developed by IBAMA, would
be adapted to specific local conditions and problems. The project would
also finance studies for the establishment (under the proposed Second Phase
of the PNMA) of a Conservation Units Training Center.
tv) Strengthening of the National System of Conservation Units
(US$ 1 million)
3.13     This sub-component would initiate improvements in the National
System of Conservation Units (SINUC). While the SINUC includes as
conservation categories National Parks, Biological Reserves, Ecological
Statians, Environmental Protection Areas and National Forests, it lacks, so
far, legal instruments for other conservation categories, which are also
considered as essential by conservationists. The project will support
studies necessary for the redesign of the SINUC and for the preparation of
a Master Plan of the National System of Conservation Units. In connection
with the redesign of the SINUC, the project would finance (a) a study on
the conceptual, legal and administrative framework necessary for the
strengthening of the National System of Conservation Units; (b) a detailed
survey of the ecological representativeness of existing protected areas,
with the objective of identifying major gaps; (c) a study of mid- and
long-term staffing needs and incentives required to enhance Conservation
Unit staff development opportunities; and, (d) the legal establishment and
operation of the revised SINUC.
3.14     The redesign of the SINUC has the objective of eli 4tuting gaps
and making federal and state level conservation strategies consistent,
through preparation of (a) programs for the creation of the conservation
and management categories necessary to attain broader conservation
objectives country wide (as part of project preparation, a first discussion
draft/proposal for the SINUC has already been prepared); (b) programs for
the creation of additlonal Conservation Units, in order to make the system
more representative; (c) federal guidelines which would allow the states to
structure state level conservation systems, in accordance with broader
national objectives and complementary to the federal system of Conservation
Units; and (d) criteria and guidelines for Conservation Units which belong
to private firms and/or other public institutions. The Plan would also



- 18 -
consider (e) strategies for decentralizing further the administration of
conservation activities, involving states and municipalities as well as
populations living in the vicinity of Conservation Units, through extension
services, and promotion of compatible land use patterns; (g) development of
more reliable funding mechanisms for the management of Conservation Units;
and (g) the involvement of relevant national NGOs. Under the SINUC Master
Plan the existing 123 federal and 205 state Conservation Units would be
integrated within a single national conservation system.
b. Protection of Ecosystems
3.15     This component would support immediate environmental protection
needs. It would comprise three special projects for the protection of the
ecosystems of the Pantanal, Atlantic Forest and Brazilian Coast. These
special projects would complement measures supported under the Conservation
Units component, and finance integrated broader environmental action plans,
with the objective of slowing down and reversing present processes of acute
degradation. For this component, IBAMA has submitted for review and
comment by the Banks (a) descriptions of the tasks and required
qualifications for each higher level staff or consultant position,
(b) draft terms of reference for studies and other consultant assignments,
and (c) annual operating plans for 1990. For the execution of the
Protection of Ecosystems the execution of the respective Operating
Agreements with each of the participating States and executing agencies, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition for the
respective disbursements in each State.
Ci) The Pantanal (USS 19.5 million)
3.16     The Special Project for the Pantanal would have the objective of
slowing down and - to the extent possible - redressing, current processes
of rapid environmental degradation in the Upper and Lower Basins of the
Alto Paraguai River. It would address the multiple factors threatening the
Pantanal, complementing activities financed under other components of the
PNMA (Conservation Units and Institutional Development components), and
under several earlier initiatives to save the Lower Pantanal Basin, which
have been promoted by local and international NGOs and by the Northwest
Region Development projects (Bank Loans 2060-BR and 2116-BR; see para.
2.18). It would expand ongoing environmental protection and management
efforts in the Lower Basin and support controls and containment of soil
erosion and pollution causing activities in the Upper Basin, which
contribute significantly to environmental problems in the Lower Basin. The
Pantanal Special Project would support the creation and implementation of a
conservation plan for the floodplain (Plano de Conservacao da Bacia/PCBAP)
and actions to address the most urgent environmental problems. It would
contribute to the integrated development of the Pantanal, through
coordination of activities of IBAMA and the OEMAs of Mato Grosso and Mato
Grosso do Sul, establishing for the first time clear accountabilities and
administrative arrangements for the environment sector between the two
states.
3.17     The project would, through parallel, integrated programs in Mato
Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul, combine measures for immediate protection,
and measures in support of longer term improvements of environmental
management. With regard to immediate protection needs, the project would
financet



- 19 -
(a) containment of pollution, through a strengthening of
monitoring, controls and (in the case of agriculture)
extension services to reduce pollution caused by industries,
mining and agriculture;
(b) iwproved law enforcement in the protection of flora and
fauna, through technical training and equipment of, and
patrolling by, the Forest Police, under a system of increased
protection in strategic points (notorious for inroads of
poachers or miners);
(c)  the establishment of a system for monitorina water quality,
involving technical training of laboratory technicians, and
operation of a basic network of 58 monitoring points;
(d)  a vrogram to contain pollution. caused by inadeauate
OJarimjop mining techniques, by establishing and monitoring
compliance with norms and criteria which would allow for the
rational exploitation of high value minerals, while
introducing at the same time controls of the environmentally
most damaging procedures, such as the indiscriminate use of
mercury and disposal of solid wastes in the river; by
carrying out ecotoxicological measurements of current
pollution levels in the affected rivers; by identifying
alternative, environmentally acceptable techniques; and by
recovering some of the degraded areas;
(e) the containment of the present degradation of vetetation in
the ecological reserve areas of the Taauari and Sao Lourenco
river sub-basins, through local recovery programs (including
extension and community participation) in two pilot areas
which were adversely affected by agricultural and livestock
activities; and,
(f) in collaboration with the environmental policing services,
the establishment of two centers for animal rehabilitation.
from where apprehended animals (rescued from smuggling) could
be delivered, before being returned to their natural
habitats.
3.18     In support of medium term structural improvements, the project
would finance:
(g) the establishment of guidelines and plans for the develonment
and the conservation of the Basin:
(h) the establishment of an environmental data bank:
(i) the training of technicians in the management of Jacare and
Cavivara animal vopulations;
t3) the evaluation of the populations and habitat use of caiman
c. vacare in the areas of influence of the Paraguaizinho and
Bento Gomes basins, for purposes of conservation:



- 20 -
(k) creation of locally adapted environmental education
instruments (with support from IBAMA's environmental
education team (para.3.35) through the training of a
technical team for the elaboration of graphical information
materials aiming at raising awareness about the importance of
conservation among local populations in the Pantanal; and,
(1) training and eauitment of the Pantanal nroiect teams, within
the state environmental agencies of Mato Grosso and Mato
Grosso do Sul.
3.19     While the proposed special project would only involve the
Brazilian Pantanal, government intends to seek cooperation agreements with
Paraguay and Bolivia with the objective of eventually promoting the
integrated management of the entire basin.
(ii) The Atlantic Forest (US$ 27.7 million)
3.20     The special project for the Atlantic Forest would aim at reversing
the process of destruction of the fragile remains of this eco-system, by
aystematizing and integrating action programs for its preservation and
sustainable uses, among others by making consistent the environmental
policies of the federal and state environmental agencies, and by means of
the recently created Atlantic Forest Consortium of the states of Espirito
Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Parana and Santa Catarina. The five
states, which constitute the Consortium account for some 90Z of the
remaining Atlantic Forest; the Consortium may shortly be expanded to
Include the remaining, Northeastern states in which account for smaller
remnants of the Atlantic Forest. This special project would complement and
be integrated with activities under the PNMA's Conservation Units and
Institutional Development components, and under the Coastal Management
special project (paras. 3.22-3.24). For the State of Sao Paulo, this
special project is likely to receive parallel financing from Kf for a
complementary set of measures under a proposed Sao Paulo State project.
3.21     The special project consists of five state level plans, each of
which combines programs for strengthening the protection and management of
existing state level Conservation Units (federal Conservation Units will be
attended under the Conservation Units component), the creation of
additional conservation units, activities in support of sustainable,
ecologically compatible development strategies, strengthening of law
enforcement capabilities (monitoring and policing), research and
environmental zoning, and environmental education. Most importantly, the
project would finances
(a) aeronhotogrammetric and satellite-imaae-based coveraze, to
serve as the basis for the delimitation of priority action
areas (where significant stretches of Atlantic Forest
remain), and demarcation of the existing State Conservation
Units;
(b) consolidation of state Conservation Units through land
regularization, establishment of headquarters facilities,
contracting of guards, acquisition of equipment, etc.;



- 21 -
(c) inventories of flora, fauna and soils for the elaboration of
ralevant diagnostic studiesl
(d) zoning and land use studies, for the identification of
alternatives for sustainable development;
(e) conmmunication and training Programs for local communities;
(f) monitoring and protection services, through Forest
Batallions; and,
(g) institutional strenathenina for purposes of conservation,
management and pollution control.
Each of the five states has completed a satisfactory plan and already begun
to implement such protection programs for the respective sections of the
Atlantic Forest.
(iii) The Brazilian Coast cUSs 5.3 million)
3.22.    The Special Project for Coastal Management vould combine measures
for urgent environmental controls in priority locations, and initiate
longer term structural improvements, providing for environmental zoning and
monitoring along the Brazilian coastline (including an area of 6 nautical
miles offshore), in the concerned States of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa
Catarina, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Bahia, and Rio Grande do Norte. This
vould be done in compliance with Brazil's special legal dispositions for
coastal management, and Brazil's National Plan for Coastal Management
(PNGC) (see Annex 8).
3.23     Special legislation and institutional arrangements apply to
coastal management in Brazil. In accordance with this legislation, the
Secretariat of CIRM (SECIRM/Ministerio da Marinha) is responsible for the
coordination of the National System for Coastal Management. The
Coordination Group for Coastal Management (COGERCO) is responsible for the
elaboration of the PNGC. The project would give continuity to and expand
the programs which CIRM has initiated in six states in 1987 for priority
sections of the coast. The program for the six states would include: (a)
the macro-zoning of their entire coastlines; (b) provision of technical
environmental data essential for the environmental monitoring of the
coastline; (c) establishment of monitoring systems in all six states; and,
(d) promotion of a system of geo-codification, which would allow for
efficient digital processing of information collected in the course of the
macro-zoning of the coast. The project would finance four activities:
(a)   the Information Svstem for Coastal Manatement (SIGERCO),
involving: the collection, analysis and systematization of
existing data about the coastal zone, by the OEMAs of each
of the six states; geo-codification for data processing and
mapping purposes; and, use of the data base for monitoring.



- 22 -
(b)   management. consisting oft zoning (identification of the
potential and the alternitive uses of ecosystems. with
special emphasis of the protection and monitoring of species
of coastal flora and fauna which are threatened with
extinction)t identification of external factors impacting
upon the ecosystems under consideration; and, monitoring of
selected priority areas, for the purpose of corrective and
preventative actions;
(c)   human resources, involving: training of personnel to develop
activities of coastal management; public information
campaigns, especially among local cosmunities, to foster
community participation in coastal management; promotion of
regional 'Colegiados Costeiros' and local 'Comites de Defesa
Litoral' bringing together representatives of institutions
and communities involved; promotion of technical exchange
between professionals involved in coastal management in
different parts of the country, through professional
meetings and training fora; and,
(d)   infrastructure: based on updated assessments, as needed,
improvement of the infrastructure (e.g. for the
interpretation of satellite images, mapping and on-site
monitoring) available to the OEMAs and coastal
municipalities for planning and controlling the coastal
environments under their jurisdictions.
3.24     This program would build upon and intensify activities already
initiated in all six states. It would be coordinated by SECIRM, in close
collaboration with IBAMA and the respective OEtMAs. During the proposed
Second Phase of the PNKA, this program could be expanded to include a
larger number of states. As a condition for disbursement under this
component in each State and at the level of SECIRM, local project
coordination and administrative arrangements would need to be in place, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
c. Institutional Develoment
Mi) Strengthening of IBAMA (US$ 14.9 million)
3.25     This sub-component would support the build-up and strengthening of
essential functions of IBAHA, providing for management expert services and
the strengthening of IBAM4' s training, information and legal support
functions within SISNAMhA. For this component, IBAMA has submitted for
review and comment by the Bank: (a) descriptions of the tasks and required
qualifications for each higher level staff or consultant position, (b)
draft terms of reference for studies and other consultant assignments, and
(c) annual operating plans for 1990.
3.26     Structuring of TBAMA.  This activity would support and accelerate
the merging of IBAMA's predecessor organizations, SEMA,, IBDF, SUDEPE and
SUDHEVEA, in accordance with Decree No. 97 946 of July 11,1989. The
project would finance the services of a management consuiting firm, which
is to assist IBAMA in the first project year in completing the merging of



- 23 -
its predecessor agencies. The structuring of I8AMA would comprise two
stages, Ci) with assistance from the management consulting firm, tae
completion and fine-tuning of redeployment of staff, equipment etc., and
the preparation of administrative manuals for the routine functioas of
IBAM9s five directorates and state-level superintendencies, and (ii) based
on the recommendations of the management consulting firm, as needed, the
upgrading of infrastructure, equipment and services available to IBAMA.
The first stage activities would be carried out during the first half of
1990, and the second stage activities would be largely implemented during
the second half of 1990.  IBAMA has submitted to the Bank for coments
draft terms of refeience for the tasks to be carried out by the management
consulting firm. At Negotiations, the Bank has received from Government
assurances that a firm, with qualifications and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank will be contracted by IBAMA no later than June 30,
1990.
3.27     Develooment of Human Resources.  This activity would support the
training of human resources within the environment sector, at the federal
and state levels, to bridge crl:ical knowledge gaps and to consolidate the
application of the sector's technical and legal guidelines. The project
would finance the strengthening of the Human Resources Unit in IBAMA, and
the training of up to 1200 technicians of the IBAMAISISNAMA system until
1992, through 29 courses of 120 hours each, 2 seminars of 16 hours each
about environmental mAnagement, 3 16-hour seminars about public
participation in environmental management; 1 course about legal instruments
for citizens' actions in defense of the environment. The project would
also provide for the development of a body of teaching materials and videos
for future continuous use in the sector (guidance materials for
environmental administration, environmental impact statements, zoning,
Conservation Units etc.). Courses and teaching materials would concentrate
on the preparation and review of environmental impact statements (RIMAs)
and legal instruments. In each state, one trainer would work on a
permanent basis with the OEMAs, giving continuity to training programs and
providing in-service training in connection with ongoing analyses of RIMAs.
3.28     Environmental Legislation.  This activity would contribute to the
consolidation and fine-tuning of environmental legislation consistent with
new federal and state level constitutions. The project would provide, for
IBAMA and for OEMAs, studies and specialists for the (a) review and
analysis of federal environmental legislation, (b) preparation of an
inventory of all federal legislation which relates significantly to the
environment, and, (c) analysis of any conflicts or uncertainties regarding
juridical attributions, or of any areas not covered by current legislation.
It would also finance (d) the preparation of legislative proposals for
consideration in the current federal and state-level legislative processes,
(e) assistance to the National Congress in the elaboration of the
Olegislacao ordinariaw which will refer to the dispositions of Article 225
on the environment of the Federal Constitution, and (f) advisory services
to the state level constituent and legislative assemblies, in the case-by-
case elaboration of state-level environmental legislation, including
legislation for environmental zoning, protection of natural areas and
environmental standards. To develop this legal analysis, the project would
finance a group of corsultant specialists in environmental disciplines and
law, who would work under the supervision of the Legal Department
(Procuradoria) of IBAMA. Following a first study and review period, this



- 24 -
group would present a document summarizing its recommendations to the
executive and legislative branches of the federal administration;
subsequently, it would be available to follow-up on request from federal
agencies and state governmnts for assistance by IBAMA in drafting specific
environmental legislation, for submission to the legislature.
3.29     Environmental Information.  This activity would provide the
environment sector, as well as any other interested entities, with
improved, efficient access to environmental data. The project would
strengthen the National System for Environmental Information
(SINIMA)(created by Law 6.538 of 1981) through the establishment of a
National Center for Environmental Information (Centro Nacional de
Informacao Ambiental - CNIA), which would integrate and improve the
information resources of the four agencies merged into IBAMA. CNIA would
be built-up to serve as a national repository for environmental information
and documentation on national and international materials (books, films,
journals, data bases, microfilms etc.). CNIA would be equipped with
telephone access services country-wide, and staffed by specialized
environmentalist staff. The project would also finance the establishment
of a National Network for Environmental Information (Rede Nacional de
Informacao Ambiental - RENIMA), complementary to CNIA, which would, for the
first time, integrate IBAMA and the QEMAs into a joint environmental
Information network, and establish links with other environmental
information centers (government, private sector, academic etc.) in Brazil
and abroad. The project would finance the equipment and experts necessary
for the establishment and operation of CNIA and RENIMA. The project would
also support the further development of IBAU.'s data bases on technical-
scientific and legal environmental informacion, and the creation and/or
strengthening of environmental information centers at the OEKAs, with the
very modest objective of assuring a minimum level of bibliographical
reference resources. It would also provide for training courses for the
respective personnel. Environmental Information activities of the project
will be closely integrated with the parallel environmental education (para.
3.35), training (para. 3.27) and remote sensing (para. 3.30) activities.
CNIA has been created by means of Portaria No.1066/89-P, of November 1,
1989 of the President of IBAMA.
3.30     Remote Sensina.  This activity would broaden the access to, and
use of, remote sensing data for local environmental monitoring and planning
purposes. Under SINIMA, the project would support the establishment of
three regional centers for the interpretation and application of remote
sensing images for environmental planning, mapping, monitoring and
management purposes, in Manaus, Sao Paulo and Cuiaba, and the strengthening
of the already existing (former IBD?) facility at IBAMA. The project would
provide for in-service training of the respective staff, and for broader
training in collaboration with the PNMA Human Resources activities (see
para. 3.27). The project would also finance, for each of the
interpretation centers, the acquisition of one SITIH 150 Imagery
Interpretation system, and of one Geographical Information System, and
formal training of 29 technicians for the use and running of the system. As
a condition for disbursements under this component, lBAMA would submit to
the Bank (a) a copy of the executed agreement between IBAMA and INPE,
satisfactory to the Bank, under which INPE shall train staff to be assigned
by IBAMA for tha interpretation of remote sensing data in the four centers



- 25 -                                              I
included under the project, and (b) detailed terms of reference for the
administration and staff of, and first yaar training programs and required
consultant services for these centers.  IDAM4  would submit to the Bank, not
later than June 30, 1990, for comuent, a draft agreement between IBW(A and
INPg.
(ii)  SuDnort for Environmental Action Programs (US$ 8.1 million)
3.31     Because of the far-reaching decentralization of environmental
management and controls under the 1988 Constitution (Article 23), the
provision by IBMAH of training, equipment and technical assistance to the
states has become essential for the implementation of Brazil's
environmental policies. To this end, the project would:
(a) significantly strengthen the environmental management and
protection functions of OEHAs, especially in the Amazon,
Pantanal and Atlantic Forest regions, through upgrading of
equipment and facilities essential to carrying out
environmental protection and monitoring activities, in at
least 10 OEMAs (primarily in the legal Amazon), and through
up to 30 local training programs. As part of IBAMA's
preparation of Annual Operating Plans for the first project
year, the baseline survey data on the specific needs of OEMAs
(see para. 2.07) have been updated for the Pentanal, Amazonia
and Atlantic Forest states;
(b) assist with the development of state-level environmental
strategies through support for 4 pilot projects which would
help develop environmental protection strategies for:
(i) protection of rivers and watersheds (Plano
DiretorlParaiba do Sul), (ii) the conservation of natural
sites in historical centers (Parati, Tiradentes, Goias
Velho), (iii) local, small scale conservation strategies
(Santuario do Riacho Fundo), and, (iv) conservation of bio-
diversity in caves; and,
(c) provide technical assistance in the preparation of at least
30 state and local level environmental action programs, which
would be considered as urgent to the prevention of
environmental losses. This technical assistance would be
provided by an interdisciplinary IBAMA team of four
specialists, and in addition, as needed, by short tenm
consultant specialist services. OEMAs would propose these
action programs for external funding (which is increasingly
being offered by bi-lateral aid organizations, NGOs etc.),
for funding under the National Environmental Fund (see para.
2.06), or for financing during the Second Phase of the PNMA.
IBAMA will restrict its selection of proposals for the
preparation of environmental action programs for purposes of
the Environmental Action Programs subcomponent, to be started
during 1990, to proposals submitted by the States or State
Agencies to IlAM not later than May 31, 1990;
3.32     The signing of the respective Operating Agreement between IBAMA
and each of the participating states and executing agencies would be a
precondition for disbursements in each state.



- 26 -
(iii) Technologies for Environmental Management ((US$ 24.4 million)
3.33     This sub-component would support the first stage of a complex
process of improving the regulatory framework of the eavironment sector,
for several key areas, through:
(a) studies to review and improve technologies and the regulatory
framework for environmental management, for the topics of
Environmental Zoning. Evaluation of Environmental Impacts,
River Basin Management and Ecotoxicology, (with special
emphasis on the lesser known ecosystems of Amazonia, the
Cerrado, and the Pantanal). These studies would be
coordinated by IBAMA and carried out through a national
network of specialized academic institutions, taking
advantage of, and strengthening, capabilities in the
environmental sciences in Brazil's academic and research
institutions. IBAMA would also seek to build upon the
experiences of the more accomplished OEMA8 (e.g. CETESB/Sao
Paulo; FEEMAIRio de Janeiro; CEPEDIBahia; DNA/Rio Grande do
Sul; or, CETECIMinas Gerais);
(b) preparation of technical guidebooks for environmental
management, which would establish a comon base of reference
for the OENAs, IBAMA and sectoral agencies; and,
(c) the dissemination and application of the improved guidelines
within SISNAMA.
3.34     To arrive at improved guidelines for the topics of Environmental
Zoning, Evaluation of Environmental Impacts, River Basin Management and
Ecotoxicology, the project strategy foresees an iterative process of
studies and proposals, workshops and critiques, and eventual pilot
applications. Work under this component would be closely coordinated with
CNPq's PADCT environmental program. Because of the involvement, networking
and support for academic institutions specializing in environmental
matters, this component would also directly benefit Brazil's major academic
training and research programs in the environmental sciences. During
Negotiations agreement has been reached that, no later than June 30, 1990,
IBAMA will have prepared, and submitted to the Bank for review and
coments, detailed terms of referencL for the first set of studies proposed
under the Technologies for Environmental Management sub-component.
(iv) Environmental Education (US$ 3.2 million)
3.35     This sub-component would support environmental education for the
general public outside the environment sector. It would involve the
development of methodologies, instruments and mechanisms for environmental
information, essential to the formation of public awareness of
environmental issues, and support the strengthening of IBAMAs environmental
education unit. The project would finance the following specific action
programst



- 27 -
(a)  establishment of a SISNAMA environmental education network,
to optimize the production and dissemination of environmental
teaching materials, in support of educational and technical-
scientific activities; (18 graphical productions, 18 videos
and 6 films would be produced, and audiovisual materials of
interest to the program would be purchesed);
(b) production and distribution of region-specific educational
materials and legal information about the environment
(videos, printed materials), to support environmental
education in primary and secondary schools, in public fora
and through national environmental non-governmental agencies
(NGOs); 9 documents about environmental themes relevant to
the North, Northwest and Northeast regions, and 3 documents
containing methodological guidelines for the treatment of
environmental questions in primary and secondary education
would be produced, with the objective of reaching at least
3000 teachers; in addition, a video and manual in support of
at least 400 state level courses for the training teachers
would be produced;
(c) promotion of environmental knowledge among the interested
public through: the structuring and implementation of a
correspondence course on environmental education for at least
3000 students, in collaboration with Brazilian Universities
(using education modules produced under this and other sub-
components (human resources, environmental technologies) of
the project; the production and dissemination of a video on
environment.al legislation and community participation; and,
production of 12 radio and 3 television programs, and a
brochure explaining the ecological and social significance of
Conservation Units; and,
(d) provision of teaching materials and technical assistance to
support the environmental education activities foreseen under
the Atlantic Forest (see paras. 3.20-3.21) and Pantanal (see
paras. 3.16-3.19) special projects, and the education
activities in the five model Conservation Units, which would
be consolidated under the project (see para. 3.10).
D. Proiect Cost
3.36     Total project costs are estimated at US$166.4 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$20.2 million, or about 122 (Loan and
Project Summary). Foreign exchange requirements are based on the
assumption that all goods and services would be acquired in Brazil with the
possible exceptions of foreign consultant services, study tours abroad,
vehicles, and data processing equipment and software.  The cost estimate
includes about US$10.1 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical and
price contingencies are equivalent to 42 and 6S of baseline costs,
respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 102
for civil works, 5S for equipment, furniture and technical assistance.
Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on
international inflation rates estimated at 7.2Z for 1989 and 4.42 p.a.
thereafter. It was assumed that periodic local currency devaluations,



- 28 -
estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for
differences between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation
rates. Recently, however, civil works costs have been rising more rapidly
than local inflation. Since civil works costs are a small part of project
cost, risk of exposure under the project is small. No additional local
price contingencies have been added. However, the Bank will monitor this
aspect carefully and has advised Government that it would have to cover any
increases. The detailed costs by year are shown in Annexes 4 and 5. A
summary of the costs is shown in the following Table.



_ 29 -
TA B L E I
,,.,t,
sat~~Ouat I  lSOso^lm                             *,C 
........ c... ----...  o.st ts31uo
IUI S            S *ol.gA    ba
1 1 fioe'qv  letal   (*caRp          Cases
a c5stvaalal u tlls
MUaGINIUI  I 06011C110o 9         iAlStIG comSIvatllo  Unit$              it 1      I lo     7           11         4
sm0     COV5RiVATla UNItlS                                                 S.0      0?     1?            :3         4
as  Coaitgawatto.  AiltS                                                   21       0S    2 O            is
uAatOtIttt PUt                                                             0 9      aI   I a             '
tarno IttatWi     a. tltiltC                                               9 S           II                          7
TuININGu                                                                   t 2      0e0    ' 3
STN[IOINtmUIc Of  sIuNc                                                    o s           I   I a          8          a
... .. ... ....... ..........  ....... ............  .......
Sdo-vlasl CONSina1iOat quitS                                                  3? 5         4  d3 2           '3        29
a. PIOTECtION @9 IC@S?SW(NS
....................
tetICtlhoGf I;0    AWn flu"                                             23       0 2   2 1             1 
SIITOeIUCG Of M*t(I OutUtl!                                             * 2      O 6   4 e             2          3
C-qttlt It alaim. &a1taS                                                I        0.3   2 2
,S ,R?aUIO        s I   getaltltallett                                     1     0       *             S a
I cStGute PA4uitiw  I taWttlSIID                                       I       a OI   I a             
c-ostItatlOt  , Plt I ato PA itl  "Sll                                 26       0 2   3                *         2
amimat ctabas                                                            I.      *      1 3                       I
stutlS Of .tacaS  an1  CwtaP      S  WItWtS                             0.       @0   0 S               a         0
MtIIGm gbinmatUut n /    utI  I    ef JACeuAS MO oplavam                02       @0    0     3                    0 s
suca1s  I tUliulsJ   I tat tCh  CPm ititS                               0.2      @0   0 2               6         0
, ....................   ....................
S,*etolteSt Ptfu                                                           I.        I*   19.        S          S 13
2. t"tlle laws?
-MmCTiss P  suitl ln  StATE mSt  ItOt t sOs  UNItS                     i0.9      1.4  12 4             :2         a
atls4 ge ofN    Swatc cssawatitO  tvolts                                1.4 *        o   . S           'o         I
S     tMm  tctt iUM                                                     1* 0e      1 e t     O                    t
nuoliisai 5151 t.                                                      2.0      0.2   2.3             It         2
Sta sNDIa  OF sIsn1s cssuis                                             1.2 t O         LO              e2e 
""AM                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~1.6a  0.2   2.0        a
LiuatllS I iMUtlo J tOtt ctmmitts                                       1.9      0.S 1   2.                       I
Special 4t,m  PiW         i   Patule                                    0.4      0.0   0.4                        0
MItIlG                                                                  0.0        *   0.0                        0
.;......... .................... ....... ............ .......
S*-tleal At%iltC FOREST                                                 24. a      3         2t *       ,,        :9
. tisaat maisii
...................
sOTt oa  lms                                                            2.1      0.2   2.3                        2
tAlUhU CG                                                                '3      0.1   1.4              9
OAStAtUltzue4t t                                                        0 e  3   00     t 3            10
ltaimiaws cm       naato Is losing                                      0?       0. 0   0 t             S         0
"aflout Ptam foe CoaSI   """MT                                          0.4      0 0    0 4             9         0
PISIICtIS 09 &Na@t            spInStD                                   0.1      00    0   I           to         0
.........;.... W........ ........ ...... ..     ......... .;...... 
So-fisl tllith Fnu   LalIt                                                 4        0.    1.3              0         4
.... ..... *s 4w.........  .........   .........  .......
S*ub-ttal  tsig Ilo   Of L      tCmSus                                        41.3      &.   13.1             to        31
C.  titiuttlat OlvtiLPUl
................ .............;
StIfutitat   s W   $W                                                     It.a      2.t  1 4.0            t         le
SUPPORT? toO 315   I uwiomIata  scom  nmain                                 I.        .1   &Is            la         S
switslmsta ini              I lUsAtOav fgitUj                            2U.1      4 3  24.4             t          lq
tl     uIutaIt t53413                                                      2.8      13   3 a              to 0
........- .............. ......   ........ .......
Smteittl tIlttUiall&t  tI5ILOUtI                                              42.L          '; 0              II        34
a  4SttlstUlt4 .    ItClliU. MO V6tUISN 0of 111 INJECt                        2.6       .    I.L?             6         2
total outing COSTS fs                                                          13.4      I8? 14St I             i3      t;O
01uspI.Sp t'qmasus                                                           4.6      I.    S.             Is         4
I.6      0.4  11.3              S         I
........... ........... ....... .......... ....... 
1o1      ot        ists                                                        1*2 I    1 .2  66.4 Ai                    III
............................... ............................................................................
_p   t. tWi    5.1i



- 30 -
E. Financina Plan
3.37     The Cost-Sharing Ratio.  A cost-sharing ratio of 75Z of total
project cost, excluding taxes, is proposed, taking into account that (M)
the benefits of the proposed environmental activities will materialize over
the long-term, while major action for the conservation of natural resources
should no longer be deferred, despite present fiscal limitations, (ii)
important initial policy and institutional actions have already been made
by Government during the preparation of this Loan. in the attempt to put in
place a significant environmental protection program despite its fiscal
constraints, and (iii) risks to the prompt execution of environmental
protection programs through shortfalls or delays in counterpart funding
need to be minimized.
i.38     Recurrent Costs. With regard to recurrent costs, the following
have been taken into accounts (i) the number of IBAM,'s personnel whose
salaries are financed under the project would be very low, representing
salaries and wages equivalent to less than 52 of the costs. Out of llAMA's
payroll of over 5000 staff, only 33 are included under the project. IBAHA
will pay its personnel out of its own resources, to which the project is
likely to contribute through additional revenues generated in the context
of law enforcement activities (fines) and of increased tourism potential in
natural sites. US$ 110.9 million (672 of total project cost) would be for
investments, while operating costs would account for US$ 55.5 million (332
of total project cost). Recurrent operating costs, needed to maintain
basic protection services in federal and state Conservation Units, would
amount to about US$ 50.5 million (see Annex 4). Operating costs would be
financed on a declining basis during project execution, and fully assumed
by IBAMA and State Governments after completion of the project (para.4.21).
On average, this vould increase the annual environmental budgets of each of
the 10 states participating under the Protection of Ecosystems component by
about US$ 3 million by the end of the project financing period. Over the
same period, IBAMA's annual budget for the protection of Conservation Units
would need to be increased by US$ 20 million (a 20S increase over IBAMA's
1989 overall budget level) to cover recurrent costs. Against the
background of fi$m Government commitment to better protection and
conservation of natural resources, and in view of the - in the case of each
State - relatively small increase in operating costs, it is assumed that
IBAMA and the state governments executing the Protection of Ecosystems
component would easily be able to assume the eventual permanent incremental
recurrent costs under their regular budgets. Under the studies for
improvements of the SINUC, the project would also support studies of
further possibilities to secure long term sustainable financing for
environmental protection activities.
3.39     The proposed Bank loan of US$117 million equivalent would finance
about 752 of total estimated costs, net of taxes, or 702 including taxes.
The Loan would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The
Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower. Counterpart funds
would be provided by the Federal Government of Brazil. As a condition for
Effectiveness, the counterpart funds required to carry out the first year
of the Project shall have been allocated in terms consistent with the
estimated costs therefor in the 19'0 budget of the Borrower. To enable
IBAMA to prepare for start-up acti$ities, project expenditures incurred
between November 15, 1989 gad the date of signing would be eligible for
retroactive financing up to a maximvm of US$11.7 million, or 102 of the
loan amount. The Financing Plan is presented belows



-31 -
Local     Foreism   Total
FinancinR Plan (US$ million)
Government                          49.4                49.4
IBED                               96.8       20.2     117.0
Total                                   146.2      20.2     166.4
3.40     The Government has confirmed that it intends to negotiate with the
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) a loan, on concessionary terms of the
German Rainforest Fund, of DM 30 million, which, if approved, would
substitute for the equivalent amount of counterpart funds for the financing
of the Conservation Units component.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
1. Prolect Management
4.01     IBAMA would be the project executing agency.  The project would
reinforce IBAMA's recently established regular structure (see Annexes 1 and
2) for the specific purposes of the PNMA, in accordance with task spec4.fic
needs, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. While this
would facilitate the proper execution of the project, it would also
establish or consolidate the permanent structures necessary to continue
essential environmental management and protection functions beyond the
period of the project. IBANA would be in charge of overall coordination
and monitoring of the project, and execute directly the Conservation Units
and Institutional Development components. For the Protection of Ecosystems
component, and for state level Environmental Action Programs under the
Institutional Development Component, IBAMA would sign Operating Agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with participating State Governments and other
agencies as needed (see Annex 2). IBAMA has provided to the Bank, for
review and conments, its draft Operating Agreements with participating
States and executing agencies. The signing of the respective Operating
Agreement with each of the participating States and executing agencies, for
the execution of the Special Projects under the Protection of Ecosystems
component, and of the state level Environmental Action Programs under the
Institutional Development Component, will be a precondition for
disbursements under the project in each respective state.   The Bank has
also reserved the right to request from IBAMA, as a condition for its
approval of such Operating Agreements, evaluation reports on the
capabilities of any State or State Agency or the Federal District, to carry
out their obligations under their respective Operating Agreement.
4.02     To coordinate the execution of the project through four of
llAMA's five directorates, and its financial, legal and administrative
offices, the President of IBAMA will rely on a small Project Coordination
Unit (PCU). The PCU has already been established in IBAMA's Secretariat
for Planning and Coordination (SEPLAC)(see Annex 1) for purposes of the



- 32 -
National Environmental Program (PMfk).  In this context, IBAMA's already
existing PNMA task force (para. 3.01) has been reassigned in November 1989
to the PCU in SEPLAC. Under current legislation, SEPLAC is to assist the
President in the coordination and supervision of planning, budgeting,
administrative modernization, informatics, coordination with regional
agencies and international cooperation in environmental affairs. The PCU
is headed by a Project Coordinator, who will be assisted by one coordinator
for each of the three components of the project, two project monitoring
officers, and support staff. The institutional structure for the
coordination of the PNMA, including the PCU, has been created through
Portaria No. 1060/89-P, of October 31, 1989. The appointment of the
coordinator and higher level staff of the Project Coordination Unit, and of
component and sub-component coordinators in IBAMA's directorates, with
qualifications and under terms satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition
of Effectiveness.
4.03     Responsibilities for the implementation of components and sub-
components within IBAMA's directorates (see Annex 2) are as follows:
(i) The Conservation Units ComDonent would be executed by the
Directorate for Ecosystems (DIREC). For purposes of the
Conservation Units Component, IBAMA is, in addition,
negotiating with the Government of the Federative Republic of
West Germany for a technical assistance package, which would
supply short and longer term specialists to DIREC, some of
them during the start-up phase of the project.
(ii) The Protection of Ecosystems Component would be coordinated
as follows:
_  the Special Proiect for the Pantanal, would be coordinated
by DIRECs the states of Mato Grosso and Nato Grosso do Sul
would execute the project, under Operating Agreements with
IBAMA. In each of the two states' OEHAs, the Special
Project for the Pantanal would be carried out by PNMA task
managers. Only with regard to inter-state coordination
needs, project execution would depend on a small
interstate coordination unit, which would be attached to
the group in charge of developing the Conservation Plan
for the Alto Paraguai Basin (PCBAP). The head of the
interstate coordination unit would be appointed by
agreement of the Governors of Nato Grosso and Nato Grosso
do Sul.
- the Special Proiect for the Atlantic Forest would be
coordinated by the Directorate for Control and
Fiscalization (DIRCOF); the States of Santa Catarina,
Parana, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo would
execute the project, under Operating Agreements with
IBAMA. Interstate coordination of the project between the
group of five participating states would be carried out by
the already functioning Atlantic Forest Consortium (para.
3.20)



- 33 -
- the S2ecial Proiect for the Brazilian Coast, would be
coordinated by DIRCOF; the project would be executed by
the Secretariat of the Interministerial Commission
responsible for the Resources of the Sea (Secretaria da
CommissSo Interministerial oara go Recursos do Mar-
-SECIRM), which directs a federal-level coordination group
involving all Government agencies which have legal
responsibilities for coastal management, and by the States
of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro, Bahia and Rio Grande do Norte, under Operating
Agreements with IBAMA. As a condition for disbursement
under the project in each State and at the level of
SECIRM, local project coordination and administrative
arrangements would need to be in place, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(iii) The Institutional Development Component would be executed:
-     For the sub-components of (a) the Strengthening of IBAMA,
(b) the Program in Support of Environmental Action; and, (c)
the Development of Human Resources for the environment
sector, by the Directorate for Administration and Finance
(DIRAF), which would also support other project components,
in accordance with its general administrative attributions;
-     For the sub-components of (d) Technologies for Environmental
Management; and, (e) Environmental Education for the general
public, by the Directorate for Incentives to Research and
Information (DIRPED), which would also support
environmental education and other institutional
strengthening activities under other project components in
accordance with its general administrative attributions.
4.04     IBAMA's four Directorates participating in the execution of the
project and, in addition, its Directorate for Natural Resources, would
participate in a multidisciplinary group for the evaluation of projects
proposed under the Program in Support of Environmental Actions (para.
3.31). Eachi of IAMIA's Directors would be fully accountable vis-a-vis the
Project Coordinator for the implementation of PNMA activities under their
respective responsibilities. Within the Directorates, each project
component and sub-component would have a special subject coordinator, in
charge of all implementation and monitoring activities for the respective
tasks. IBAMA has provided to the Bank a detailed incremental staffing plan
for purposes of the PNMA at the level of each of the four IBAMA
directorates in charge of project implementation, and at the level of
IRAMA's financial, administrative and legal offices, in accordance with
IBAMA's recently approved detailed administrative structure.
4.05     Personnel.  IBAMA has submitted to the Bank, for its review and
comments, profiles and qualifications of key technical staff (for the PCU
and the coordination of the project's components and subcomponents).
Presently, Brazil has a general hiring freeze, which prohibits the
contracting of personnel for the federal level public service. Agreement
has been reached that project personnel would be recruited among former
IBAMA, SEUA, SUDEPE and SUDHEVEA staff, to the extent that their profiles



- 34 -
and qualifications would correspond to the above mentioned, agreed upon
position profiles. Agreement has also been reached that, to the extent
that positions cannot be filled in accordance with these specifications by
existing IBAMA or other Government personnel, IBAMA would, as long as the
hiring freeze prevails, resort to contracting long term technical
specialist services; and that, should the general hiring freeze be lifted
at some point during the implementation period of the project, IBAMA would
consider, on a case by case basis, the alternatives of hiring permanent
staff instead of third party services.
4.06     In order to lay the foundation for project implementation starting
in January 1990, IBAMA has prepared, for review and comments by the Bank,
the PNMA Annual Operating Plans (POAs) for IBAMA's FY 1990, and held an
internal seminar to familiarize staff with the objectives of the PNMA and
with their respective future responsibilities under the project (the
outline for this seminar has been submitted to the Bank). Similarly,
seminars will be organized in participating states. During the initial
months of the project, workshops will be organized to train project staff
for the purposes of monitoring, and administrative procedures (accounting,
procurement, disbursement, Operating Agreements, etc.). During the project
implementation phase, there would be routine internal evaluation seminars
to exchange information on, and discuss progress of, the project among the
coordinators of its different segments.
2. Monitorint and Evaluation
4.07     Monitorina would be an essential function in the project
management process, In order to assure the anticipation and timely
resolution of any bottlenecks, and quality control. Monitoring would focus
on the compliance with project targets in terms of quantity, quality and
timeliness, and of follow-up by management on any issues previously
highlighted in the context of monitoring. The PCU and the task managers
within the Directorates of IBAMA would monitor project implementation on
the basis of frequent field visits; field visit routines and budgets would
be laid out systematically to assure even coverage of states and field
level project sites over each project year. The project also provides
flexibility for additional ad hoc trips, in response to emerging needs.
Monitoring would involve a standardized routine of reports, reviews and
consolidation of data, through (a) monthly action oriented updating reports
from local level project executing agents, reporting on key actions of the
preceding months, and highlighting key points for the month to come; (b)
trimestral progress reports, comparing original plans, actual achievements
in quantitative and qualitative terms, and highlighting issues requiring
intervention of the project coordination; (c) special issue oriented
reports, whenever needed; (d) routine review meetings; and, (e) short
special studies, which may be conuissioned by the project coordinator,
should he see a need to probe into emerging problems. Detailed monitoring
indicators have been established (see Project File). During Negotiations,
the Bank has received assurances that it would receive consolidated
semeetral Monitoring Reports from IBAMA on March 31 and September 30 of
each project year.
4.08     Evaluation. Project performance would be evaluated during the
second semester of each project year, in order to ascertain whether (a) the



- 35 -
project is attaining the basic objectives which have been established for
each component and sub-component; tb) whether the strategies to attain the
project's objectives prove to be effective (or would need to be adjusted);
(c) whether the priorities and specific tasks set out under the project
continue to be valid or would need to be adjusted in function of new
factors, which were not foreseeable at the time of project design;
(d) whether the technical quality and the efficiency of project
implementation is satisfactory; and, (e) to identify any bottlenecks which
may need to be resolved to facilitate further progress of the project. For
key monitoring and evaluation indicators please refer to Annex 9. A more
detailed set of indicators is available for each project component in the
Project File.
4.09     The Government has agreed that (a) IBAMA would cause the annual
evaluations to be carried out by an interdisciplinary team, through a
Brazilian academic institution, with qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank, whose services would be contracted by IBAMsh in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and (b) the evaluation team would be given full access to
review IRMA's Annual Operating Plans (POAs), budgets, expenditures and
monitoring reports, to carry out extensive field visits and to contact
project executing agencies. During Negotiations, the Bank has received
from IBAMA, for its review and comments, detailed terms of reference for
the external evaluation of the project. Government has provided assurances
that, following the submission to the Bank of a shortlist of institutions
to be invited to prepare proposals for project evaluation, and a set of
selection criteria, such an institution would be hired no later than
September 1, 1990. Government has also confirmed that the evaluation work
would be supervised by SEPLhN, with the purpose of assuring compliance with
the terms of reference and of ascertaining satisfactory performance of the
outside institution to be contracted for the evaluation work. The results
of the annual evaluations would be discussed in an annual seminar,
involving all directors of 18AMA, the PNMA PCU, and all higher level staff
responsible for the implementation of the PNMA at the level of IBRMA; this
seminar would have the purpose of discussing evaluation results, and their
implications for annual planning and any corrective steps which may be
called for. The Project Coordinator would also invite participating states
and agencies for a discussion of evaluation results.
3. Financial Manaaement. Accounts and Auditina
4.10     Annual Planninu and Budgeting.  IBAMA's Secretariat for Planning
and Coordination (SEPLAC) would be responsible for the project's budgeting
process. Targets and costs established at appraisal would be adjusted
annually during the project implementation period. By May 31 of each year,
each executing agency would have prepared and submitted to IBAMA an annual
budget. SEPLAC would consolidate these plans after ensuring internal
consistency, and submit the consolidated operating plan and budget to the
PCU for its review and approval. By August 30, the PCU would submit its
final approved version of the budget to MINTER, who would pass it on, for
further approval by Congress, by October 31. During Negotiations,
Government has provided assurances that: (a) the project's annual work
program and budget would be made available to the Bank by June 20 of each
year for review and coments; (b) that the Treasury (Secretaria do Tesouro
Nacional) of the Ministry of Finance would make available to IBAMA, through
the Ministry of Interior, all funds for expenditures to be financed by the
Borrower, either from the counterpart funds or from the proceeds of the
Loan, required to carry out the Project, in accordance with and within the
time periods set forth in the relevant Plano de Aolicacao (investment



- 36 -
plan); and (c) that IBAMA would make available to each project executing
entity funds in a timely and adequate amount as specified in the annual
Operating Agreements.
4.11     Accounts and Accounting Procedures.  IBAMA's Department of Finance
(DF) would be responsible for the timely request of funds from the
project's co-financiers, the downstream flow of funds to each of the
project executing entities and the upstream flow of justification of
expenses ("Prestacao de Contas"). Special Accounts in US Dollars would be
opened and maintained at the Central Bank and in a commercial Bank abroad
(para. 4.22). Each executing entity would maintain separate accounts for
project expenditures, which would be consolidated by DF. DF would also
maintain a separate cost accounting, with one cost center for each of the
sub-components established in the appraisal cost tables.
4.12     With three sources of funding, supplying an annual allocation of
over US$40.0 million, the project financial execution will bear a heavy
incremental burden upon IBAMA's recently created financial department
(DIRW ). In view of this, DIRAM has taken measures to strengthen its
capabilities, through improved staffing and accounting equipment, and the
creation of an internal project auditing uni_ which will be responsible for
training and supporting financial units of each of the executing entities.
The Bank will reconfirm, as a condition for Loan Effectiveness, the
staffing and equipment of IBAMA's Finance Department, with qualifications
and under terms satisfactory to the Bank.
4.13     Auditins Arrangements.  The Special Accounts at the Central Bank
and at a comercial bank abroad, project accounts at each of the executing
entities, and project consolidated accounts at IBAMA would be audited
annually by independent private or public auditors acceptable to the Bank.
After the audit, and not later than six months after the close of the
project's fiscal year, PCU would transmit to the Bank certified copies of
the audited accounts together with certified copies of the auditor's
opinions and management letter.
4.14     During the annual audits of project accounts, the independent
auditors would give a separate opinion of the Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) supporting disbursement requests, the internal controls of project
transactions and the implementation of these controls, the supporting
evidence for the expenditures and the eligibility of the expenses in
accordance with the Loan Agreement. The audit report would also include a
description of the audit procedures followed. The separate project
accounts maintained for the project by the executing agencies would be
available for review and spot checked by the Bank during supervision.
4.15     During negotiations, the Government has provided assurances that:
(a) the Special Accounts and the project accounts would be maintained and
audited annually by satisfactory independent auditors according to
standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference
of the auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the SOEs for the project accounts; and (c)
certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each project
fiscal year.



^ 37 -
B. Procurement
4.16     Procurement arrangements are swmmarized in the following tables
Procurement ArranRements
(USS million)
Project Element  ICB        LCB      Other    Total
Civil Works                 12.3       4.3      16.6
(8.6)    (3.0)    (11.6)
Equipment         4.0        20.2      2.6      26.8
Furniture        (2.8)       (14.2)   (1.9)    (18.9)
Vehicles,         9.0        1.9       0.7     11.6
Computers        (6.3)       (1.5)    (0.4)    (8.1)
Technical
Assistance,                            55.9     55.9
Training                              (39.3)   (39.3)
Operating Costs                        55.5     55.5
(39.0)   (39.0)
TOTAL            13.0        34.4    119.0      166.4
(9.1)      (24.3)   (83.6)   (117.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed
by the Bank.
4.17     Goods and works would be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Consultants,
with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank, would be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency.
4.18     Because of the widely dispersed nature and relatively small size
of individual civil works contracts, it is unlikely that foreign
contractors, and even major national contractors, would be interested in
building the proposed facilities. Accordingly, Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, would be used for
civil works construction. Interested foreign bidders would be allowed to
participate. Where construction contracts are expected to exceed
US$750,000, plans, specifications, and other bidding documents would be
submitted to the Bank for review prior to the Invitation to Bid being
issued.



- 38 -
4.19     Once bids would have been received and evaluated, IBAM& would send
the Bank a copy of the bids, its bid evaluation and recommendation for
contract award. IBAMA has submitted model bidding documents for Bank
review at Negotiations. Once reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable,
these documents would be used for bidding all contracts between US$150,000
and US$750,000. Once bids are received and evaluated, IBAMA would send the
Bank a mall scale floor plan indicating what is proposed to be built and a
copy of the bid evaluation with their recommendation as to the successful
bidder. The Bank would request prior review for any civil works contract
below US$150,000 only in the case of the first two contracts. Work by
force account would be permitted ior am--l works (mostly improvements to
existing facilities) below VS$ 150,000, in aggregate value not exceeding
US$ 4.3 million. Total civil works procurement under the project is
estimated at about US$16.3 million, excluding contingencies.
4.20     Where possible, goods to be procured would be grouped into
contracts amounting to more than US$250,000 to be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following the Bank's Guidelines for
procurement. Such procurement would amount to an estimated total of
US$13.0 million. Contracts for goods costing th.e equivalent of US$250,000
or less would be procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
The aggregated value of such contracts would amount to an estimated US$21.7
million. Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$
30,000 or less, but not exceeding, in the aggregate, the equivalent of US$
3.3 million would be awarded on the basis of selection of the lowest bidder
among at least three price quotations. At Negotiations, IBAMA has
submitted to the Bank for its review and comments, the (i) bidding
documents to be launched during the first semester of 1990, and (ii) its
draft agreement on a Tecnical Cooperation Project with UNDP, for the
provision of consultant and equipment for project implementation, which it
is presently negotiat .g. By June 30, 1990, IBAMA will enter into an
agreement with the United Nations Development Program (Projeto de
Cooperacao Tecnica), the terms and conditions of which shall have been
previously agreed upon with the Bank.
C. Disbursements and Snecial Account
4.21     The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against
the following categories, as indicated belowt



- 39 -
Disbursement
Allocation of       Percentage of
Cateaorv                           Loan Amount         Total EZienditure
(USS million)       to be Financed
Foreign Local
1. Civil Works and Buildings                9.i
For Part A of the Project                                     1001      46?
(Conservation Units)
For Parts B and C of the                                      1ooz      75S
Project (Protection of Ecosystems,
Institutional Strengthening)
2. Goods                                   24.2
For Part A of the Project                                     100?      46?
(Conservation Units)
For Parts B and C of the                                      100?      75Z
Project, and for Project
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
3. Technical Services and Consultants      35.0
For Part A of the Project                                     100?      46?
(Conservation Units)
For Parts B and C of the                                      1OO?      75Z
Project, and for Project
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
4. Recurrent Costs                         35.3              90? up to an
aggregate amount
of $ 15,000,000
and thereafter
60? up to an
aggregate amount
of $30,000,000
and 302 of such
costs thereafter
5. Unallocated                             12.7
T 0 T A L                        117 0
Estimated Disbursements (USS million)s
Bank FY            1990*      1991      1992      1993
Annual             19.0       35.0      34.9      28.1
Cumulative         19.0       54.0      88.9     117.0
* includes initial. deposit of US$ 10 million into Special Accounts



- 40 -
4.22     In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finwnce the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, two
Special Accounts in US dollars would be establishedt one in the Central
Bank of Brazil, for expenditures in cruzados novos, and one in a
commercial bank abroad, for paymnts in other currencies. The amount to be
deposited in the Special Accounts initially is estimated at US$9.75 million
for the account in the Central Bank of Brazil, and 0.25 million for the
account in the commercial bank abroad. The Bank would replenish the
Special Accounts for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible
expenditures at the request of the Borrower. Retroactive financing will be
made available for project expenditures incurred after November 15, 1989,
up to an amount not exceeding 102 of the loan amount.
4.23     Disbursemenm s for contracts not exceeding US$150,000, force
account and operating expenses not mnde under contract, would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the various executing
agencies and certified by PCU. Supporting documentation would not be
submitted to the Bank, but would be available for inspection by the Bank
during project supervision missions.
4.24     The project is expected to be implemented over three years but, in
accordance with the disbursement profile for region-wide projects, the
disbursement period was estimated to extend over four years from approval
date (Loan and ProJect Su-mmry and Annex 6).
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
5.01     Brazil is a country of outstanding environmental importance, with
about one th'rd of the world's remaining tropical forests, a major share of
global bio-diversity, and it faces serious environmental problems. The
proJect would contribute to sustainable and efficient economic development
through sound management of natural resources and strengthening of
Government capabilities for the implementation of Brazill's environmental
policies. Specific benefits would be:
Mi)      better immediate protection and conservation of bio-diversity in
fifty existing priority Conservation Units, and the creation of at
least five additional Conservation Units in other endangered
habitats;
(ii)     better environmental management and protection of the ecosystems
of Amazonia, the Pantanal, the Atlantic Forest, and the Coast;
and,
(iii)    broader improvements of the institutional and regulatory
framework, which would have a country wide impact:
(a) within the environment sector (better human resources, better
access to and use of environmental information and existing
expertise, better human resources and equipment for selected State



- 41 -
Environmsntal Agencies, improved legislation, better environmental
licensing, planning and control procedures, and systematic gauging
of opportunities for environmental financing fLom a variety of
public and private sources) and.
(b) outside the environment sector (among the wider coumunity,
better information, coomunity involvement and environmental
education).
B. Risks
5.02     One main risk is that the project executing agency, IBAMA, which
han been created only recently, is not yet fully consolidated, and
therefore might experience problems in carrying out this additional
program. To the extent possible, this risk has been addressed in project
designs IBAMA is to be strengthened under the Institutional DevGlopment
component, project implementation arrangements and key staff are already in
place, and detailed Operating Agreements with participating states have
been designed to assure project execution at the state level. Risks to the
continuity of the project might arise in connection with current changes in
the Federal Government, and changes in State Governments in 1991.
Regarding the likely commitment of the incoming new federal government,
prospects for implementing the project seem good, given that the president
elect advocates strong environmental programs. While substantial
environmental policy reforms have been enacted in 1989, project success
would depend on the identification and removal of any remaining policies
which might adversely affect the specific goals of environmental protection
In the ecosystems of the Amazon, Pantanal, Atlantic Forest and the
Brazilian Coast. Under the project, the policy framework uould be
addressed through IBAMA sponsored studies of and proposals for
strengthening the legal and policy framework. It would also be addressed
through the Bank's policy dialogue and Economic and Sector Work.
5.03     Because of the unprecedented nature and scope of the project, an
intensive, above average technical supervision effort by the Bank will be
essential to minimize project risks. In project design, special care has
been taken to detail, beyond the usual measure, project activities,
Implementation schedules and task budgets, in order to facilitate in-depth
supervision follow-up by the Bank. Special arrangements have been made for
the supervision of financial and procurement matters (para. 3.39). The
Bank's supervision effort would be particularly intensive during the start-
up phase of the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS
6.01     During Negotiations, the conditions and agreements listed below
have been agreed upon, with regard to Effectiveness and Disbursement of the
Loan, and to key dated covenants:
6.02     The followina will be conditions of Effectiveness of the Loans
(I)      that a unit responsible for Project coordination is operating in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, with adequate staff, equipment,



- 42 -
facilities and other resources, and that the positions of head of
said unit and of three coordinators who will assist the head of
the unit in coordinating in general the activities under each part
of the Project, have been filled with professionals whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 4.02);
(II)     that IBAMA has assigned 8 professionals, whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank, to
be responsible, within IBAMA, for matters relating to the
execution of the Conservation Units, Pantanal, Atlantic Forest,
Brazilian Coast, Strengthening of IBAMA, Environmental Action
Programs, Technologies for Environmental Management and
Environmental Education components and sub-components of the
Project, respectively (para. 4.02);
(III)    that higher level staff, in adequate numbers and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, have been
retained by IBAMA to strengthen its Directorate for Administration
and Finance, and that the latter has been provided with adequate
accounting equipment (para. 4.12);
OV)      that the counterpart funds required to carry out the first year of
the Project shall have been allocated in terms consistent with the
estimated costs therefor in the 1990 budget of the Borrower
(para.3.39);
6.03     The followin. will be conditions for Disbursement of the Loans
(V)      for each existing Conservation Unit to be consolidated under the
project, IBAMA would have updated its 1988 baseline data on the
the status of that Uzit (para. 3.09);
(VI)     for the execution of the Protection of Ecosystems and
Institutional Development components, that the respective
Operating Agreements with each of the participating States and
executing agencies will have been signed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.15 and 3.32);
(VII)    for the Brazilian Coast sub-component, as a condition for
disbursement under the project in each State and at the level of
SECIRM, that local project coordination and administrative
arrangements be in place, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.24);
(VIII)   for the Remote Sensing sub-component, that IBAMA will have
submitted to the Bank (a) a copy of the executed agreement between
IBAMA and INPE, satisfactory to the Bank, under which INPE shall
train staff to be assigned by IBAMA for the interpretation of
remote sensing data in the 4 centers included under the project,
and (b) detailed terms of reference for the administration and
staff of, and first year tzaining programs and required
consultants'services for, the 4 centers included under the project
(para. 3.30).



- 43 -
6.04     The following will be dated covenantes
(IX)     IBAMA will restrict its selection of proposals for the preparation
of environmental action programs for purposes of the Environmental
Action Programs subcomponent (para. 3.31), to be started during
1990, to proposals submitted by the States or State Agencies to
IBAMA not later than May 31, 1990;
(X)      by June 30, 1990, IBAMA will have furnished to the Bank, for
comments, detailed draft terms of reference for the first set of
studies proposed under the Technologies for Environmental
Management sub-component (para. 3.34);
(XI)     by June 30, 1990, IBAMA shall contract the services of a
management consulting firm to assist with the structuring of IBAMA
(para 3.26);
(XII)    by June 30, 1990, IBAMA shall enter into an agreement with the
United Nations Development Program (Projeto de Cooperacao
Tecnica), for the provision of consultants and equipment for
project implementation, the terms and conditions of which shall
have been previously agreed upon with the Bank (para. 4.20);
(XIII)   by September 1, 1990, an independent academic institution will be
hired by IBAMA, with qualifications and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of annual
independent evaluation studies of the project (para. 4.09).
6.05     Goverment has also provided assurances that:
(XIV)    the project's annual work program and budget would be made
available to the Bank by June 20 of each year for review and
comments;
(XV)     that the Treasury (Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional) of the Ministry
of Finance would make available to IBAMA, through the Ministry of
Interior, all funds for expenditures to be financed by the
Borrower, either from the counterpart funds or from the proceeds
of the loan, required to carry out the project, in accordance with
and within the time periods set forth in the relevant Plano de
ADlicacao (investment plan); and
(XVI)    that IBAMA would make available to v-ch project executing entity
funds in a timely and adequate amount as specified in the annual
Operating Agreements.



I c,*m
oqmm
L nWA--r
r  I mcum
VANN"
m m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aolm
OOWIO                                      o3I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AgMGmOAM  OU
colognumn,            Mlv ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ouqUi
secomv~~~~so  
I .3 1 I w      L~r
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m "_                             .   Wr   1-r
mawv.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ui       oaornuo_                                                                      W
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~so
inmmuam          UOUU1UB3         I       fl W .I   m  ..I..... ..
IM ,   sm    .      .                I ............... .-
uaona                                                               cvaa W
I~~~~~~~~ w                                   u      I      1      uj- uvIIdUI.  GHlrIn
jI Iaa I                           ,m o                         .
~~~ .4
'"Un -'n                                       t
.~~d,cI                  e       Lmi..
SIAYO3USVULn SSWOU803331   I  0OI1   Olfihi
IX3RI.I 



Annex 2
45                             Page 1 of 4
IBMA
Proiect smolementation Arrangements
1.       Brazil's National Environmental Agency. the Brazilian Institute for
Environment and Natural Rene'table Resources eIBAMA). will coordinate all
project activities, and dlrectly execute the Conservation Units and
Institutional Development components.
2.       SBAMA has been created by Law 7.735 of February 22. 1989, and is
classified under Brazilian law as entidade autarquica de regime especial',
having administrative and financial autonomy. It is linked to the Ministry
of the Interior. Under IRAMA's statutes, its main attributions are to
formulate, coordinate, execute and cause to execute the national policy for
the environment and for the preservation, conservation and the rational use,
the fiscalization and control of, and support for, natural renewable
resources.
3.       IBAMA is headquartered in Brasilia and has Superintendencies in all
25 States. lBAMA's operations are funded out of the federal budget and out
of its iacome, which is generated through fees and fines applied in the
forestry and rubber sectors. Under the *Our Nature ProgramO a National Fund
for the Environment has been created, which enables llAMA to receive
financial contributions from a variety of sources and to pass them on to
environmental projects. lSAMA acts as the Secretariat of the National
Environmental Council (CONAMA). which is composed of all SISNAMA agencies and
representatives of the principal sectors of the economy (energy, agriculture,
mining etc.). CONAMA has an essential role in reviewing proposals for and
the enforcement of environmental standards and legislation.
4.       lSAM  substitutes for, and continues the activities of. previously
four separate institutions: the Brazilian Institute for Forestry Development
(13D?), the Superintendency for the Development of Fisheries (SUDEPE), and
the Superintendency for the Development of Natural Rubber (SUDHEVEA), under
the Ministry of Agriculture; and, the Secretariat for the Environment (SEMA).
under the Ministry of Housing, Urban Affairs and the Environment. lBAMA's
administrative statutes and management structure were defined by Government
in July/August 1969, and Congress has approved its personnel and salary
structure in December 1989. lAMA,'s new structure has, through the
distribution of responsibilities among its five directorates (very much in
line with the distribution of responsibilities among its predecessor
organizations), assured a certain measure of continuity in the carrying out
of the previous functions of SZHA. IBDF, SUDEPE and SUDNEVEA. While lBAMA9s
basic organlration has been implemaented at the federal level, it is still
being concluded at its State level Superintendenc is, where more than 80S of
the staff are located. Further consolidation of the institutional reforms of
th environment sector will continue in 1990 (for ISAMA's statutes, please
refer to the legimento Interno' and Organizcao Basica documents in the
Project File).
5        The basic concept underlying project Implementation arrangements
within SUAMA is not to create a separate structure within IBAMA, but rather,
to strengthen the executive capabilities within 1BAMA's regular structure,
thereby contributing to the project's overall Institution-building objectives
and to the sustainability of activities beyond the project period.
6.       Project implementation arrangements continue the already established
administrative mechanisms, which have been put In place since 1987 by SEMA,
IBAMA and the participating States for the project preparation, with



-46 -                     Annex 2
-46-                 ~~~~~Page 2 of 4
significant support from a UNDPIPNMA Technical Cooperation Project.  Because
of its positive experience with the UNDP assistance, IBAMA plans to contract
a follow-on Technical Cooperation Project with UNDP, for purposes of
implementing the PNHA.
7.       The President of IBAMA will rely on a small Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), in IBAMA's Secretariat for Planning and Coordination (SEPLAC).
for the coordination of the project. The Project will be executed by four of
IBAMA's five directorates, &nd through its financial, legal and
administrative offices, and participating States and executing agencies.
Under current legislation, SEPLAC is to assist the President in the
coordination and supervision of planning, budgeting, administrative
modernization, informatics. coordination with regional agencies and
international cooperation in environmental affairs. The PCU has already been
established for purposes of the National Environmental Program (PNMA), and
IBAMA's already existing PNMA task force is being reassigned to the PCU. The
PCU is headed by a Project Coordinator. who will be assisted by one
coordinator for each of the three components of the project, two project
monitoring officers, and support staff. The institutional structure for the
coordination of the PNMA, including the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), has
been created through Portaria No. 1060/89-P. of October 31, 1989.
3.8      Responsibilities for the implementation of components and sub-
components by IBAMA's directorates, participating States and executing
agencies are:
Ci)      The Conservation Units Component would be executed by the
Directorate for Ecosystems (DIREC). The ultimate responsibility
for executing the component will be retained by IBAMA at the
federal level, whereas responsibility for day-to-day execution at
the field level will be delegated to the State level
Superintendencies, very much in line with their earlier IBDF
attributions and existing operational routine. For purposes of
the Conservation Units Component, IBAHA is negotiating with the
Government of the Federative Republic of West Germany a technical
assistance package, which would supply short and longer term
specialists to DIREC, some of them during the start-up phase of
-the project.
(ii)     The Protection of Ecosystems Component would be coordinated by
IBAA at the federal level. while execution will be contracted
out, through Operating Agreements with respective States and
agenciess
-    the Special Proiect for the Pantanal, would be coordinated by
DIBEC; the states of Hato Grosso and Hato Grosso do Sul would
execute the project, under Operating Agreements with IBAMA.
In each of the two states' OEMA9, the Special Project for the
Pantanal would be carried out by PNMA task managers. Only
with regard to inter-state coordination needs, project
ezecution would depend on a small Interstate coordination
unit, which would be attached to the group in charge of the
Conservation Plan for the Alto Paraguai Basin (PCBAP). The
head of the interstate coordination unit would be appointed
by agreement of the Governors of Mato Grosso and Hato Grosso
do Sul.
-    the Special Proiect for the Atlantic Forest would be
coordinated by the Directorate for Control and Fiscalization
(DIRCOF); the States of Santa Catarina, Parana, Sao Paulo,



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo would execute the project,
under Operating Agreements with IEAMA   Interstate
coordination of the project between the group of five
participating states would be carried out by the already
functioning Atlantic Forest Consortium.
-    the SPecial Proiect for the Brazilian Coast  would be
coordinated by DIRCOF; the project would be executed by the
Secretariat of the Interministerial Commission responsible
for the Resources of the Sea (Secretaria da Commisfsl
Interministerial oara os Recursos do Har--SECIRM), which
directs a federal-level coordination group involving all
Government agencies vhich have legal responsibilities for
coastal management, and by the States of Rio Grande do Sul,
Santa Catarina. Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro. Bahia and Rio
Grande do Norte, under Operating Agreements with IBAMA.
(iii) The Institutional Development Comqr,nent would be executed:
-    For the sub-components of (a) the Strengthening of IBAMA, (b)
(b) the Program in Support of Environmental Action; and, (c)
the Development of Human Resources, by the Directorate for
Administration and Finance (DIRAF). which would also support
other project components, in accordance with its general
administrative attributions;
For the sub-components of (d) Technologies for Environmental
Management; and, (e) Environmental Education, by the
Directorate for Incentives to Research and Information
(DIRPED). which vould also support environmental education
and other institutional strengthening activities under other
project components in accordance with its general
administrative attributions.
9.       IBAMA's five directorates would participate in a multidisciplinary
group for the evaluation of projects proposed under the Program in Support
of Environmental Actions. Each of IBAMA's Directors would be fully
accountable vis-a-vis the Project Coordinator for the implementation of
PNM activities under their respective responsibilities. Within the
Directorates. each project component and sub-component would have a special
coordinator, in charge of all implementation and monitoring activities for
the respective tasks. IBAMA has provided to the Bank a detailed
incremental staffing plan for purposes of the PNMA at the level of each of
the four lBAMA directorates in charge of project lmplemontation, and at the
level of IBAMA's financial, administrative and legal offices, in accordance
with I2BHA'u recently approved detailed administrative structure.
10.      llAMA's project coordination staff will determine, on a case by
case basis and depending on the respective issues.and available
capabilities, to what extent they vish to rely on the Superintendencies of
IBAMA for field level Implementation, in addition to their obligatory
routine of field visits, as a minimum once every two months in each of the
respective participating States. In addition to their own field visits,
2BAMA's PCU and Directorates will rely on a detailed monitoring and
evaluation system (see  PNMA-Estrutura de Administracaol Monitorial in
Project file, and Annex 9 below).
11.      Responsiblities for project Implementation are sumarized in the
following tables



WIU                           Annex 2
1oge 4 of 4
ocSlE.*otck Oramaas  wAm  Uma ininatalto
.m _
1E X1  ~~~~as,                                    ,,  l^,,00w04e 
-   *e .  w              ab.  * ""       a 1        ft
ew~    as"  do.       do" 0 a4=:.                         . 0- aa    
I~
mam. mma. .                                           0O     a             m
q  ....^' 1-         .ma
vow.*---                    ._
a ~   ~             ~            ~           ~           ' =
On"
MlE*a E ma warn.3                                 SEA   * b S        .ub |  A    .        |
ANA     mwm SdwdB matw bmmw.m  a bea s.  ON84                   SEA  _* .s      do no M  gum SaM   - Sp
cmEO    -twod mswamasa             wss   abmI    lalmaEmmu gw                              bea fmo. INU
gSC.m  .5mm, =       * -sadsl O  a _m   d  Met                    SlOP   *      do  TiM. C.p  , .z_ _  PR
coGIG m" dOesm clereeded amm *5.ms,a bwe                          PA""    Po -   Bt  AGWW* bi  Tamamp .  si   a a
a       SOS'OSM d  5M Sa C_O_A__. *-*-PM                                  Pa _M_  ma _  jatS *            UT
SUm   .*mSwa'l*  sAs de   asia"M     SPEE'  * NS                  OiMS    Ssmaoft  do OWN sa    
SEftAN  SW. 4b CurtS Sag. ba446 B b 0b      dabm   Sp       M    $pi"M    P1.. MmaS.f
PM& ua  *P.A.b LaMiamamd Eoseoalad hma   Afas. amt..   A



gts gu iic
I. ......006.                           0550 .1.2.1                                                                    .1 .........................................................1.10
o,wt In,     g m     it I      iwto    8Lt            31,  u     01105 a               umimis            lawu    11g.11 ato
........................... ........
208135  0 .itt    081 tit         n Il  St UIlreld                  J0   W1013*l Nw  !1111 100110111 *0                   104.9m5
0o1t oI ma ggg     cnt   t               ot I-a. MU1li1 Welills  l uaulul3u
......... ........ ........ ................
3 NO  A5 SltS I          Mt Lii  90 It4 a 184                       U1ONUI1I 1 O1VIIWU/ I.wwuu  111033113
9 6606              tug   0 *gI   1W  1                          1'N108d    131 W"tUlia )i a1  S                0"0
C 91,'31  9 Mo81 t 6140  I'M  it *                                   1i00                         at  0 OUIUIlPIIIIS
Ui"OIIAU   lIIoILISUIE    3
......... ........ ........ ........ ........
* -00i 1-1  3 UC-I t 6990I S1C  lf'l05                       ..15403   U0  1w3s16 1S01-
......... ........ ........ ........ ........
S Ut       9          0go s       to    I it CU                                   531335 0141033n    * 101in3110D
I SSW 90      8 -     iIt     I  8 SCC                                       INSUCVJW 1 11 45I   804 111ld1 11011"1
I 909               0 638    I 34       A 0lt                                    18100 I 00IihulouU   38158$11141
re;;.   t got    o itg         * 0141    I 00                                                               011131
o I6ts      *43     9o3 1O             5393 Ct 030 01 11101*111
I031111911010 llS11 t
c M0e      I 1135    5  164  8 C      ccn  0 a1t 4                                           15104 21u1111 iol0l01.5
......... ........ ........ ........ ........
9St C         It    t'        9  6      9 49                                                               unialwal
35V       0              e0 68I act                                              of 348           adU0189193118
I gttl O            sSet C   &4         I st'               1itCtiou                    tWd IS4 se.8tn    I  1w"o
158      8X     98    C51 ClS   40 IO 910 5$S111I08103  11201 / b181111   I 10111200
30688   93496    001tg9    Go    .,098                                                                     1135135
I 'o 9   0 *01 C       1  t    C  t9K8 6191  * 3601                            S10111403 OISIXI 0 ImIulolats
8 on83    36C9    I           @O 0 got  41 5t                                                   Pist80n3 )IWOllOI
t '   tl  I CL s       o *t    BP Cg    I  Ot   ,unl8Sno3 looeenS
A 004.s    3 cS     I S       I tont     93                             s11n 1NOM1 IS1103 111S 033  J0 "0111313
1 9191tl  C St 'l    ti54t t  t lt  9 36C                           11 10111A135103 1llS   1iSI  13  4010113l3d0
................
151101 31iu111 8
1 011 1C  111Stt  9  M3l5  t li    I O0t'S    *IlVS    l1901.W0"S
...............    ........    ........... ........    ..................... ....
0 e9c      1 a       I to     0 801    054 Pat11111113 1U301 I 1  111  1I 1o01nn1                                  3
s99s      I       t 1  09     S9 n         61 Gil       sweA1s  :11 s1133wr Jo 03101133 I  l113141  04IS:9Ui
0 3ts       t       1 911    t 09I    I  61                               1 SlI193l S1"1h113 031 SIuvwf 10 silOniS
14tol   S tI      0o  St    o @51     9S060                                                         5s11U13  Ml
 O4t    t 1 06    6 S99    0 m1   0 981t                               "IS" 19119111 01111  1 "id011018"03
0 3663   0 698       I @00p   1 39      0084t                                   wOIlsoiKI / 1.1310331  01,T1g13:ll1
5   sSl      6                          6  34t                                        03 *IIIIIWu)0 /  l 401 OlIl lle
t 03t u8   t 15     C 400    065     9 1tt01                                               s1g  )uMl  %I ta1081
8 061 C   t N       9  MCl     CN91l  6 5391                                           I-I: it q1:1  011 S 0l,1oil
5 CUT      I 63     9 gig    9 on       0 s                                          Von) onU  80ols to0 10113)io0d
*t0t6      60        5 C   U       s51t    8 60                                                  1031902 NOhIflilOd
.........................
"3S1A1 311 10 001131108d 1
050930  8 5t1 84  1 00'41 1UST  8 CtCSt siin  5111 011VAN31023 1001.Q^S
......... ..-...... ----.... to......... ."".......9 .......... . . . . . . . . . .......lvi
411 6St    tog      54        @9Ut     9  94c 3 O5 t                                           3       0     IIIU1UIS
9sti   -1           Il WI  c  Ct 't  I 0110                                                ibot ft  oX . sl"ln limilit cal
I 6311        0 0 it    61 4 9341to     084                                                           mi    0WillVaN
9 o911 .             4  40  1 8911g 300.                                                   1810110  GU  1131  O SC. nIllxs
00   1        st O1     C     "C c  ut 509  tC                                                3Sltm 1141333S11113 lm
a 31       I Su     3 SC08  6   0131l 0  *'UI                                                Sltin uOtwAnswm    13008
r   tCta "ST  A tt          '9 t  tt 0 9I  tlc9l3 91    1    1 0101115003 d811511  e 50 0013110w 8I 1l1101Wn
*tstlstl ttt...gs ....s... stt..t......................
5111 0111AN831103 1
It10*    t66       o6l1     1651     0161
.............................................
1000. * sn
S0%.N Vo e) nl3wl iee
430  Lq S I     3JJ40 3 
13101  lJiu uAl3e l   19100111
- 6, -



-50 -                                                               AWEy L
Jallowtt (lkwiOtCwIst b    ROJBtC?
SUtNNAT  *ACcunts COSt SunR111i
trs S mil to               (USS Nil iAIl                       I  otalt
.................  ................ *----R---   o* ate
Local  Ifo*l9t Total  local loe.e.'  loee.    Eschiingp            costs
I.  lwvISluIml costs9x stlas
................
O CIVIL Nows a          UltDINGS                 9a         42   140        9a        4 2   140             30           9
*  (t I UIPNH I                                   is S       t  23     2    160        7 3  242              30          16
C.t  1IcISANUD COHPulRS                           ltI          *l01         l  t         -  10                 *          7
0  mOo - IOUIPItIl
............ ............ .
I  COSullAuI                                  13 S       II2  15 2    139 S           2   is2              8         10
I  IROkltitlC                                  6 a          *      a     6a           *      6-a
3 OtlsOlhttt IIPIUSES
...................
ShASRICS  tt O ttOwaaCS                    3. 4              34      34                34                          2
lRtVEtlILOS EIS IS 6                                    -        6    I6               I6                          I
..... ..... .... ........ ....;........ .....  ............  ............ ....................
S*letal  PERSONNEL tlPEuSIS                    50 5O0                    5            -   5                           3
VItCI   vt           Costs                 0 1       0a     0 2      01        @ 1   0 2              30           0
OITHER NIB1IA                              3 2       0 4    3 6       32       04    3 6              t           2
.....    .......    ........ ... ...... ..... ..i.. .... ..  ........  ..... ................ ...
Swb-leot1 tUtERIUt                             J 3       0 4    37       3 3       0       3.                          3
5  CoWiRaCIIO  SivICiS
....................
Wi(iCII  AtiUEWAJCt                        O I       00    01 0o                08     01             30           0
ttt1ER StERCtS                            171 5        3 9 S    4    It 8       I 9   it4             10          13
ie4_ t~IluRaCttO SRtilCES                 I 6    20               IS S16    2  O5                     1a          13
... ... ....... ..      .    ... .... ....... .....  ............  ......... .. ... .... ....... ......
SwIlotl IONt  tCUIPUtIUI                           6 6       3 6  50.2    466          3 6  so 2               7         34
,.....    .......    ........ .....    .......    .....  ......  .....  ......... .. ... .... ....... ...
total IUVtEIStII  COIS                               83 S       s  I  S8 S 63 S   s              S  S I   Sg       s         66
lI  a      ututRt' CoSts
...............
PtSONNEI laPtEStS
...................
SLIhUI mS AtD it&uCaCLS                      :95           *         '9   s1            15                *         13
iRvE&t* LttoHwCS                              46               4 a      48               4 *                         3
... ... .............. ....... ........ .......  ..... .......  ....... ............  .......
So-?olal PERSSomLi  tEapStLS                    24.3              24 J   24 3               24. 3                       16
B.  IlRIUA
eh;ld vumnCucstls                             2         1. 1    3. 5    2         1 1    3 5             30          2
OINEtt AtIRIAt                                4 9       0.1    1 .4     40 S        5 s. 4               :0          4
.......... .. .....  .....  ...................  ......... .........  .......
Seh-le'..; ajiRthTt 7.3                                     t.6    69       7.        1. 6     .             to 1
C. fJt01RClto SOtVICtS
....................
WHtIM   UIIlt(tt1t                            10        0. 4    1.4      1        0         1. 4         30           1
OTHER SUWICAS                                14 3       I 6  IS,     143          1a   is .9             10         it
.... .... .......... .............. ..... ....... ........ .......... ............ 
ihteoal IStIUCTEO SERVICES                       '1 3       2 0   1?.  I  s.3         2.0   1t.3             12         12
.... ... ...... ...... .... .... ...... .......... .......... .........  .............
Total RECuIRtN cCtes                                 *469        3.6  s         469 S   a0. 6S                     1 tt
Total SAS&IlUI COSTS                                  130 4      18. 7 149 I  130 4 *           1 149. 1           13        0oo
Php,sil Cot:iq          see                         48        1.1      1      48        1.1  6   .1            is           4
Price Cattt p i                                    109        0 4   11.3    10.9        0.4   11.3              3 
total ttdCt  tOStS                                    146t 2     20.2 166 4   1412         203X 166 4              12        112
51*5*. ShutS. SIS   isaS    ssan$.se... 2855        iSiSS         SIiI
...................................................................................................
gm 1  tS        t



- 51 -
ANNEX S
BRAZIL
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
_________________________________.______________________________________.___
TOTAL           IBRD              GOVERNMENT
COMPONENTS                      US$ M         2    USS M         2    USS M
A)  Conservation Units                48.6        47    22.7        53    25.9
B)  Protection of Ecosystems          58.4       80    46.8         20    11.6
A)  Institutional Development         56.3        80    45.1        20    11.2
D)  Project Coordination,
Monitoring, Evaluation             3.1       80      2.4        20     0.7
TOTAL                           166.4        70   117.0         30    49.4
e_______________________-----------__-_-----------------_------____________________0



- 52 -
AMNE 6
BRUZIL
RATIONAL EnVYRONRERThL PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCUEDULE OL AWNK DISBURSD0ITS
(US$ million)
Bank                       Disbursed     Cumulative
Fiscal        Quarter      During        Disbursement        Z      Balance
Year          Ending       Quarter          Amount        of Total of Loan
1990     Dec 31, 1989        0.0             0.0                     117.0
Mar 31, 1990       10.0 1I         10.0 11           8      107.0
3un 30, 1990        9.0            19.0            16        98.0
1991     Sep 30, 1990        8.7            27.7             24       89.3
Dec 31, 1990        8.8            36.5             31       80.5
Mar 31, 1991        8.8            45.3             39       71.7
Jun 30, 1991        8.8            54.1             46       62.9
1992     Sep 30, 1991        8.7            62.8             54       54.2
Dec 31, 1991        8.7            71.5             61       45.5
Miar 31. 1992       8.8            80.3             69       36.7
Jun 30, 1992        8.8            89.1             76       27.9
1993     Sep 30, 1992        9.0            98.1             84       18.9
Doc 31, 1992        9.0           107.1             91        9.9
MIar 31, 1993       9.0           116.1             99        0.9
Jun 30, 1993        0.9           117.0            100        0.0
}/ Initial deposit of US$10.0 mIllion into the Special Account.



- 53 -
ANNZX 7
Fag. 1
BRAZIL
NATIONAL ZNVTRONMEITAL PROJECT
Conservation Units to be Assisted Unagr the Proiect
PARQUZ NACIONAl                                    ARt!  (H! )
01. P.N. HONS? PASCOAL - JA                           22,500
02. P.N. AMAbONIA - PAIAN                            994,000
03. P.N. ARARADOS DA SRRA - RS                        10,250
04. P.N. ARAGUAIA - TO                               562,312
05. P.N. BRASILIA - DP                                28,000
06. P.M. CABO ORANGE - AP                            619,000
07. P.N. CAPARAO - MG/ES                              26,COO
08. P.R. CHAPADA DIAMANTINA - IA                      152,000
09. P.N. CHAPADA DOS GUIMARAZS - HT                    33,000
10. P.N. CHAPADA DOS VEADE%ROS - GO                    60,000
I1. P.N. MAS - GO                                     131,000
12. P.N. GRANDE SZRTAO VEREDAS - MG/BA                 64,000
.13. P.N. ITATIAIA - RJI/G                             30,000
14. P.N. JAU - AM                                  2,272,000
15. P.N. LAGOA DO PEIXE - RS                           34,000
16. P.N. LZNCOIS KARANHENSES - MA                     170,086
17. P.M. MARINHO DOS ABROLHOS - BA                     91,800
18S. P.N. PACAAS NOVOS - RO                           756,801
19. P.N. PANTANAL MATOOROSSENSZ - MT                  135,000
20. P.N. PICO DA MEILI   - AM                      2,200,000
21. P.M. SAO JOAQIM - SC                               38,600
22. P.N. SUMRA DA SOCAINA - RJ/SP                    100,000
23. P.N. SZRhA DA CANASTRA - MO                        71,525
24. P.N. SRR DA CAPIVARA - PI                          97,933
25. P.N. SZRRA DOS ORGAOS - RJ                         11,000



- 54 -
AX 7
Patg 2
RESERVA SIOLOCICA                                 (AREA (MI
01. R.J. SOORSTAMA - ES                              24,000
02. R.3. AIUWARI - AM                               288.000
03. R.3. ATOL DAS ROCAS - RN                         36,249
04. R.5. GUAPORE - RO                               600,000
05. R.5. LAGO DIRATUBA - AP                         385,000
06. R.I. POCO DAS ANTAS - RJ                          5,000
07. R.5. RIO TROMBETAS - PA                         385,000
08. PB. SERRA NIGRA - PE                              1,100
09. R.8. UNA - A                                     11.400
ESTACAO ECOLOGICA
01. I.E. ANAVILEANAS - AM                           350,018
02. 1.Z. TAIAMA - MT                                 14,225
03. E1.. BABITONGA - SC                               7,882
04. E.E. GUARAQUECABA - BR                           13,638
o3. Z.I. JUAMI-JAPURA - MT                          745,950
06. E.I. JUREZA - SP                                 24,605
07. E.E. MARACA-JIPIOCA - AP                         72,000
08. E.Z. PIRAI - RJ                                   4,000
09. E.1. SERRA DAS ARARAS - MT                       Z8.700
10. 1.g. TAIM - RS                                   33,995
AREA DE PROTECAO AMBIENTAL
01. APA DA SEEM DA MASTIQUEIRA - MGISPIRJ           402,517
02. APA DE CAIRUCU - RI                              33,800
03. ADA DE CAUMIA-IGUAPI Z PMEUE - SP               202,882
04. ADA DE GQARAQUECAJA - PR                        291,500
05. APA Dg JnICOACOARA - CE                           6,800
UNIDADE ISTADUAL
01. E.. STADUAL DI AGUAS EN MDADAS - Dr              10,547



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
?ago S
PROGRAIA MACIORA DO NUO ANRWI??
COIPON! NTE UNIDADES DE CONSERVAYXO
ITUROS *#A KL(CAO K  PIIOIOEAKS
(@mgluioido Vlwntza    Il )
ClIERIT GO                     RACKS 0 CUIIrICS SM"O*IOS
A * fVAGILtOArt OOS            - Prosxsgedsat Ms ccntros m*bvoms
tCcSStS1QuS               - Tito de fe.s.itcn
At.vidadfs *od'strMs *OXbii
- t*edso di esgeceas
= Ctwlefto #f n rVe
*    wsam (ari)
- e.u sos one protte
*  *IOIEScIATVIOO            * r   de iatwit gs  nac'ORal
- Aea de intgnsi  wA"dil
- Cadimtsuo do icossitiSi
- Aer prtetida
Co PROILEWA                    * Ninorucie I richas
- Oisetawnte
= Pgiugcetl - lime
, !acdios
- ca
- nca
-  rsio
- Veodallimo
- t^Im"ao
- PtcYwa a gtricultqv
O*  EStSOE CACUKSASS           - Naots / *1N-TCCG?eotecwQvrfr  uS
* - ieftutlrstva
*         ~~~* C9iseasbut
- Pland do eanso
- MtWi&l * stlgtlve 'iia 141st'tIt -  duClteve
E   SaI Ji  PU5O1              *  rtcs  wr rielari w
t           * -wt o de mp eiro/voweretvuios
- CastohA - fstus$ itt hoji
- Tewe so rwha1lv,
f   9 ItMACAIUSO                 votuu/dusidade 0w0l.guall do ciatre wba00
"is wotxis
- geca do  a
* tivediad     oli
-il5O



-56-
Coastal anaesement
Institutions ang Leaislation
1.       The Special Project for Coastal Management would be Implemented by
the Secretariat of the laterministerial Comission responsible for the
Resources of the Sea (Secretarig da Com-lusso Interministerial narn  os
Recurjo  do f  _--SECIRM), which directs a federal-level coordination group
Involving all Covernment igencies which have legal responsibilitles for
coastal management.
2.       Special legal dispositions apply to coastal management.  On
September 12, 1974, with Decree No. 74.557, the Federal Government created
the Interministerial Comission responsible for the Resources of the Sea
(Cogmislo Intermlnisterial pcr. go Recursos do Mar--
CIM). Other key steps were the followings (i) on July 26. 1982, the
Government of Brazil joined the International Convention for the Prevention
of Pollution of the Seas (l on September 16, 1982. the Government of
Brasil set forth the test of the International Convention's charter in
Decree No. 67.566; (iii) also In 1982, the National Congress ratified the
Vuited Nations Convention for the lights of the Sea; (iv) on April 7, 1986,
the Government issued Decree go. 92.522 approving the Socond Sectoral Plan
for Sea L.sources (Plano Setorial oars gs Recursos do Mbr); and. finolly.
(v) In 1988 the Covernment submitted to the National Congress for app:oval
a proposed law for the creation of the National System for Coastal
Management (SisteMa Nacional de Gerenciamento Coeteiro), which
institutionalizes the joint vork program of CIRM and CONAMA (parc. 7).



-57-                       Annex 9
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.       Monitoring and Evaluation would be complementary functions, to
provide project management with feedback on project performance and
results. Monitoring would aim at controlling compliance with short term
targets, while annual evaluation would analyze whether the project achieves
desired results and impact.
2.       Monitorina would have the essential function of ensuring the
anticipation and timely resolution of any bottlenecks, and quality control.
Monito:eing would focus on the compliance with project targets in terms of
quantity, quality and timeliness, and of follow-up by management on any
issues previously highlighted in the context of monitoring. The PCU and
the task managers within the Directorates of $BAMA would monitor project
implementation on the basis of frequent field visits; field visit routines
and budgets would be laid out systematically to assure regular field
coverage. The project also provides flexibility for ad hoc trips.
Monitoring would involve a standardized routine rof reports, reviews and
consolidation of data, through (a) monthly action oriented updating reports
from local level project executing agents, reporting on key actions of the
preceding months, and highlighting key pointz for the month to come; (b)
trimestral progress reports, comparing original plans, actual achievements
in quantitative and qualitative terms, and highlighting issues requiring
intervention of the project coordination; (c) special issue oriented
reports, whenever needed; (d) routine review meetings; and. (e) short
special studies, which may be coumissioned by the project coordinator, when
he sees a need to probe into emerging problems. The Bank would receive
consolidated semestral Monitoring Reports from IBAMA on March 31 and
September 30 of each project year.
3.       The purpose of Annual Evaluation would be to measure progress
towards the project's larger objectives, and to identify any factors in the
sectoral or broader social and economic project environment which could
undermine the achievement of project objectives. Project performance would
be evaluated by an inter-disciplinary technical team, from an independent
academic institution, during the second semester of each project year.
SEPLAN would supervise the quality of the work of the evaluation team,
which would be contracted by I1AM, in accordance with Bank guidelines for
the hiring of consultants.
4.       Annual evaluation of the project would analyze the progress and
quality of project execution, prospects for eventual longer term impact,
issues in strategy, and constraints, if any; it would also review the
usefulness and contribution made by project monitoring, and overall
performance of project management at the level of BAMA and participating
stat is. The broad indicators listed below will be further fine-tuned by
IBAMU and SEPLAN, In the course of preparing the terms-of-reference for
the annual evaluation team.
5.       Detailed monitoring and evaluation indicators and liplementation
schedules have been established for each project component, specifying
objectives, physical targets and other expected project results, schedules
and deadlines, and Institutional responsibilities. The detailed indicators
are available in the Project Pile and should be used as the basis for Bank
Supervision.



Annex 9
- 58 -                            Page 2 of 13
6.       This Annex lists. by component. some key targets to be monitored
under the project, and considerations in annual evaluations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
ReZ Tarmets and Indicators
A. CONSERVATION UNITS
1. Monitoring/Targets
a. Consolidation of Existing Conservation Unlits
starting in 1990: Revision/updating of 10 management plans
starting in 1990: Elaboration of 15 new management plans
starting in 1990: installation of physical structures, equipment,
personnel for supervision, protection. administration, education
and tourism (in the case of National Parks), in all 50
Conservation Units
starting in 1990: periodic surveys and monitoring Conservation
Units
starting in 1990: Land survey and demorcation (completion of
demarcations in 1992) for all Conservation Units with incomplete
land regularization status
b. ZEtablishment of Model Conservation Units
starting in 1990: installation of physical structures, equipment,
personnel for supervision, protection, administration, education
and tourism (in the case of National Parks) in all 5 Model Units
By early 1992s Adequate functioning of the five Units
c. Establishbent of New Conservation Units
1990s Viability studies for 10 new Conservation Units
1991: Viability studies for another 10 new Conservation Units
starting in 1991: Decrees of creation of a minimum of 5 new
Conservation Units
starting in 1991s better representation of ecosystems in SIMUC
starting in 1991: Protection of new Conservation Units
early 1992s initiation of physical desma rcation of at least five
new Conservation Units
t iuAuiaA
1990s Creation of Mobile School
1990: Preparation of teaching modules
19901199111992: ten regional courses in each year
*. Strenothenal of the National System of Conservation Units (SINUC)
1990: Data gathering and studieslelaboration of new SINUC Plans
* study of the conceptual, legal and administrative parameters;
- study of ecological representativeness
2 study of medium- and long tem personn l needs
- desip of aw administrative policy



_ 59 _                       Annex 9
Page 3 of 13
end 1990s completion of new SINUC Plan
end l990: initiation of implementation of new SINUC Plan
2. Evaluation
(l) For evaluation of the Drogress and quality of execution:
Regarding the equipment of 50 priority Conservation Units with
control and protection mechanisms (observation towers,
headquarters, houses for park wardens, watch posts, fire
combat equipment etc.): are the infrastructure works of the
desired quality, sited appropriately and staffed as needed?
Do they prove to effective in protection and management
activities? Are they duly assisted, supplied and supervised
by IBAMA?
Regarding the preparation of 20 basic studies for new
conservation areass Are terms-of-reference, methodologies,
performance of researchers contracted and presentation of
intermediate and/or final results of satisfactory quality and
timing? Art they resulting in geographical and legal
definition of additional Conservation Units?
Regarding the establishment of five new Conservation Units:
Are the steps for their legal establishment, staffing and
equipment duly taken by IBAMA? What, if any, are factors
adversely affecting project implementation, but out of IBAMA's
direct control?
Regarding the five Model Conservation Units: Is their
establishment progressing satisfactorily? Do they achieve
their purposes of conserving representative samples of the
Amazon, Pantanal and Atlantic Forest Ecosystems, and of
demonstrating in an exemplary way alternative conseGvation
strategies?
Regarding the elaboration of 15 Management Plans and
revision/improvement of 10 existing ones for federal
Conservation Units: are progress, methodology and quality of
the preparation of the plans, or the final plans,
satisfactory? Are steps undertaken to apply the
recomendations of the management plans in the respective
Conservation Units?
Regarding the carrying out of land tenure registration
activities for all conservation units in question (land
discrimination and demarcation of limits)s is technical and
legal work proceeding on schedule? Are legal or financing
mechanisms applied for land regularization performing to
satisfaction?
Regarding the establishment of a Mobile School for the
Management of Conservation Units: are curricula, selectLon of
participants and performance of students satisfactory? Mhat
adjustments if any, should be made?
Regarding the Revision of the SINUCs are studies proceeding oan
schedule, and what steps are being initiated to incorporate
eventual recommendations into the legal and methodological
framework of the SINUC?



-60                       Annex 9
Page 4 of 13
(ii) For longer term Impact evalulationt
Is the project making progress towards:
the elimination or minimization of undue uses of conservation
units, guaranteeing their integrity?
the elimination or minimization of illegal invasions of
Conservation Units?
the integration of the work of federal and state agencies
responsible for the Conservation Units?
benefitting populations in the vicinity of Conservation Unitz
(vses for scientific, recreational, cultural or economic
purposes)?
guaranteeing the effectiveness of state level agencies to
protect Conservation Units?
S. PROTECTION OF ECOSYSTEMS
a. Pantanal
1. MonitorinslTaruets
by mid-1990: establish integrated management model
by 1993: complete Conservation Plan for Bacia do Alto Paraguai
(PCBAP)
Implementation of licensing system for pollutant activities,
(starting in 1990): (a) sub-bacias Cuiaba, Taquari, Coxims, Jami
and Correntes (1990)s (b) sub-bacias Sao Lourenco, Itaquira,
Miranda,.Aquidauna, Negro (1991)s (c) sub-bacias Paraguai, Jaura,
Cabacal, Apa (1992)
Adoption of effective supervision/policing system for flora and
fauna (starting 1990)
Implementation of water quality control
Control of Gariapo mining
reclamation of degraded areas
training of 15 technicians for management of jacare and capivara
(by end 1991)
development of a technical model for management of jacare for
Pantanal producers (by end 1992)
stablisbment of 2 centers for reception and rehabilitation of
forest life (1990)
Public awareness campaigns (starting 1990)
2. Evzluation
(ii) For evaluation of the urorerss and  uality of eaccution:
Is the project achieving a tangible degree of modernization, in
terms of equipment and training, of state and local environmental
Institutions?.



-61                             Annex 9
-Pae5of 13
_        Are environaental monitoring services established and functioning
to schedule? What are the key results and practical useslfollow-
up of monitoring data by responsible authorities?
-        Are there improvements in environmental protection activities for
flora and fauna?
-        Do the strategies to recover aegraded areas prove to be effective?
-        Do project strategies to better orient and control mining related,
environmentally hazardous practices, prove to be effective?
-        Are the projects aimed at increasing the knowledge and sustainable
uses of local flora, fauna and fisheries resources for economic
purposes successful?
-        Is coordination and integration of environmental protection and
management programs in the Pantanal between Mato Grosso and Mato
Grosso do Sul improvisg?
-        Is the knowledge-base about the Pantanal being improved through
the project's studies and data-bases?
Are education and public awareness campaigns having any measurable
impact?
(ii) For longer tern im,act evaluations
Are regional development and planning reflecting recommendations
of the Integrated Conservation Plan for the Alto Paraguai Basin
(PCBAP) in regional planning and development?
-        Ate Government, Municipalities and citizens' organizations
increasingly containing the process of degradation of the
ecosystem caused bys poaching, predatory fisheries, pollution
(mining, agricultural, urban and industrial), deforestation of
riverbanks and affluent areas pollution?
-        Are new, recently licensed or established economic activities in
the Pantanal compatible with environmental protection objectives?
b. Atlantic Forest
1. MonitorinulTarnetes
a. Genera
-   EstablisbmentlMplementation of the Consortium for the Atlantic Forest
of the states of Santa Catarina, Parana, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
Espirito Santo
- Consolidation of 26 existing state conservation units
-   Surveys /nventories of Atlantic Forest Region, for Registration as
UNESCO Blosphere Reserve (underway since 1989)s Decrees of areas
1990191; Declaration as Biosphere Reserve, 2nd semester, 1992)



- 6  -                   Annex 9
Page 6 of 13
-   Establishment of an integrated system of supervision
-   Research with the objective of identifying. by 1992. potential and
possible uses of Atlantic Forest areas
-   Promotion of sustainable development, especially in fishing communities
Environmental Education for the Public
- Training for technical staff
b. Existina Conservation Unitst
Santa Catarinas-   surveys/management plans and their implementation for
conservation units of Pedra Furada, Serral do Tabuleiro.
Sassafras, Canela Preta and Acuai
-   delimitation, demarcation and registration of Serra do
Mar and Coastal Mountains
-   Land and soil surveys for Pedra Furada, Tabuleiro,
Canela Preta and Aguai(demarcation 90/92;infrastructure
1991; signposts 1992;
-   in each the four conservation units, installation of 1
administration building. 1 depot, 1 garage. 1 office and
1 shelter;
-   development of eco-tourism programs
Parana:         -   infrastructure for Morumbi IX (visitors center,
administration)
Sao Paulos      -   Jureia and Carlos Botelho Park, research/surveys of
flora and fauna
-   Management Plans for conservation units of Carlos
Botelho. Jureia and Petar
-   Delimitation and demarcationsAlto da Ribeira (75km);
Jureia-Itantins (36 k1m); Jacupinga (58 km); Carles
Botelho (71 km); landsurveys for same units4
- 1992:demarcate conservation units
.Infrastructure and equipment of Petar, Jureia,
Jacupiranga, Carlos Botelho (253 km fence; 2 nurseries;
8 gates; 6 offices; 6 shelters; 2 laboratories; 13
sentry boxes; 12 residences for field staff; signposts)
Rio de Janeiros-   management plans for 3 conservation units (Desengano,
llha Grande, Pedra Branca)
-   delimitation, demarcation, registration of Serra do Mar
and Coastal Mountains
-   land surveys of conservation areas not yet appropriated
by the State
-   establishment of Center for Selection and Recuperation
of forest fauna of Guarantiba
-   establishment of seed bank In Biological Reserve of
Araras
- land surveys/regularization 4 conservation units
(identification of boundaries/perimeters 1st semester
1991)
Espirito Santo,.  consolidation, development and manaoement of 6
conservation units, totalling som 7000 ha (Duas Bocas,
Pedra Azu., Forno Grande, Mestre Alvaro, Fonts Grande,
Cachoeira da Fumaca)
- Delimitation, demarcation and registration of Serra do



-63 -                       Annex 9
Page 6 of 13
Mar and Coastal Mountains;
-   Installation of 45 km of fenee and 20 guard houses, 6
administrative headquarters, 8 guard towers. 12 sentry
boxes, 6 depots, 6 sheds
-   train 66 staff of existing conservation units
c. New Conservation Units:
Santa Catarina:-   identification of new areas for conservation units and
watershed protection
-   studies for proposed areas, landsurveys etc.
Parana:        -   create, equip and regularize land tenure of Park of
Eufrasina
Espirito Santo:-   establishment of 7 new conservation units (State Park of
Setiba, Ecological Station of Manguezal de Conceicao da
Barra, Manguezal de Anchieta Park of Cacarenema; State
Park of Itaunas Guarany et al..
d. Sustainable DeveloAment:
Sao Paulo:     -   Studies for the sustainable use of resources of the
Atlantic Forest and the associated eco-systems of the
Lagunar de Iguape-Cananeira region (survey of plant
species: 3 management plans and pilot projects; periodic
field evaluations)
Rio de Janeiro:-   establishment of system for monitoring flora and fauna
EsDirito Santot-   economic and social studies, includinS field research
and interpretation of satellite images
- pollution control, cooperation with PROCOP and Sao Paulo
State programs;
-   environmental monitoring
e. Suoervision/Monitorinat
Santa Catarina:-   establishment of a company of Forest Police (192 men)
- construction of units for this company
- equipment (vehicles, radio, fire-fighting)
- strengthening of existing civil supervision team of OEMA
Paranas             in- tegrated state supervision system
- equip environmental protection team
- build 18 posts for and equip battalion of Forest Police
- supervision of the use and occupation of land in Serra
do Mar and Bacia Litoransa, by the Executive Secretary
of the Coastal Council
- Equipment for/ Monitoring of Industrial and domestic
effluents (lacia Litoranea)
Sao Paulo:     -   through strengthening of the Department of Protection of
of Itatural resources of the State of Sao Paulo and the
Forest Police



-                               -~~~~~~~~~~6  -
Annex 9
Page 8 of 13
-   elaboration and implementation of a plan for aerial
supervision
-   special operationfi for supervision('Blitz )
- Equipment of Forest Police Battalion
Rio de Janeiro:-   equipment of two existing patrols
-   creation of six new patrols
EsTirito Santot-   increase contingent to 250 men;
-   build troops of forest police
-   education and training of personnel
-   protection infrastructure and equipment
-   control and supervision of forest resources (operacao
verde')
f. Research:
Santa Catarinas-   systematic survey of fauna (habitats, geographic
distribution, present situation)
Parana:s-   monitoring water quality and quantity/Dacia Litoranea
-   socio-economic and environmental impacts/Serra do Mar
-   Inventory of Manguezais
-   zoning of aquatic estuary ecosystem
-   micro-zoning in environmentally critical areas
-   survey of infrastructure for eco-tourism
-   survey of historic and pre-historic sites
-   survey of fauna
-   evaluation of fisheries potential in 'microbacias*
Sao Paulos     -   scientific surveys of the effects of atmospheric
pollutants affecting flora close to Cubatao
-   soil surveys/Serra da Paranapiaba for purposes of
recuperation of degraded areas
Rio de Janeiros-   activities/contributions for conservation management
plans
Espirito Santos-   completion of environmental macro-zoning
g. Environmental Education:
Santa Catarinat-   media campaigns
- development of locally adapted programs
-   development of didactic materials for local schools
- convenios with municipal governments/proamotion of
municipal workshops
-   college-level lectures/debates
creation and distribution of basic texts to 25 000
students and 1000 professors
Parana:        -   Expositions
-   Training of staff for visitors centers
- development of local educational programs



Annex 9
Page 9 of 13
-   18 courses for teachers
- publications
-   ecological programs for visitors
Sao Paulos     -   development of environmental education programs
-   development of published materials
Espirito Santo:-   5 posts for environmental education
-   2 courses/So hours; 10 courses /30 hours; 34 courses120
hours
-  production of 4 posters, 4 textbooks (circulation 25 000
each); folders, videos, slides
2. Evaluation
(i) For evaluation of the Progress and quality of ezecutions
_        are the schedules for the implantation and consolidation of an
Integrated Protection System being adhered to? If not, what are
the major obstacles, case by case?
-        Are investments in the consolidation of 26 ezisting Conservation
Units being carried out at the desired levels of quality and pace,
and are they accompanied by the necessary staffing, education and
training programs?
3        With regard to the definition of additional areas to be put under
conservation, are technical studies, and land discrimination.
legalization, demarcation and protection activities according to
schedule?
3        Are the execution of each of the state level projects and the
perfoamance of the Interstate Consortium conducive to the
attainment of project objectives related to better environmental
protection?
(ii) For longer term mDact evaluations
Is the project making progress towards $ts longer term objectives of:
-        Preservation of species on site?
-        Preservation of watersheds and soils?
-        Preservation of Natural Landscapes?
-        Creation of social mechanisms/processes to address urgent
environmental issues?
-        for critical areas, harmonization of environmental preservation
and sustainable development needs?
-        Consolidation of hillsides in high risk areas?
-        Preservation of fish resources?
(iii) Brasillan Coast
1. MonitorinulTarRets
starting in 1990:
-        provide human resources, material, equipment for ezpansion of
coastal Mane     t



- e6 -                       ^Annex 9
Page 1o of 13
train personnel (7 training courses -6 regional, one national)
implement information system
Zoning and monitoring
Continuous updating of geographic information
technical and financial evaluation
involvementlawareness generation with local communities
preparation of legislation pertinent to macro-zoning
protection of endangered species
2. Evaluation
(Ui) For evaluation of the progress and quality of executionw
Are project progress and quality satisfactory in terms of:
execution of macro-zoning in the States of Rio Grande do Sul,
Santa Catarina. Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Bahia and Rio Grande do
Norte, &tong the entire extension of the respective state
coastlines?
-        generation of technical environmental information. for areas
selected as a result of zoning?
-        implementation of environmental monitoring mechanisms in the six
states?
-        geo-codification for purposes of mapping/macro-zoning?
-.       establishment of a system of environmental information for the
Coast.
(11) For longer term imnact evaluation:
Is the project making progress towardss
- Knowledge of the coastal resources and their rational use
- Continuous updating/feedback to the system on Information for
Coastal Management, for purposes of zoning and corrective action
programs;
- use of collected data by state governments and municipalities
for environmental management and planning.
C. INSTITUTIONUL DEMELOPMENT
1. Monitorina/Tariets
a. Strentthenina of IBAMA
contract, by June 30, 1990, management consulting firm to
consolidate structuring of 1BAMA. Results/recommendation by end
1990; implementation to be completed by mid-1991
Develop a training program/environmntal management (team to be
formed January 1990; terms of Reference to be prepared fort
- environmental impact studies
- licensing, control and supervision
- administration of conservation units
- nvironmental zoning
- public participation in environmentt1 management
, environmental assistance for develcpment planning



Annex 9
Page 11 of 13
- environmental priorities for the industrial sectors
- publication of basic documents starting July 1990; first 4
courses September-December 1990
Establish RENIMA and CNIA, starting 1990; operationalize by 1992
establish, equip and train personnel for 4 centers in remote
sensing (starting 1990), which should become fully operational in
1992.
b. Support for Environmental Action Prosrams
Until 1992:
strengthening of at least 10 OEMAs
support to at least 30 proposals for training of human resources
support to up to 4 pilot projects
assistance in the preparation of at least 30 state andlor
municipal proposals
c. Technoloites for Environmental Managetent
January 1990, Formation of Teams/preparation of First Conference
1990 1st semestert Elaboration of term-of-reference for technical
studies
1990 2nd semester:Establishment of Study and Research
systems/networks
by December 1991: Publications of studies and research results
by December 1992: Publication of Technical Manuals/Test
Applications
December 1992s Dissemination of Technical Manuals (Environmental
Zoning, RIMAs, River Basin management, Ecotoxicology)
d. Environmental Education
establish a system to optimize productlon and dissemination of
instructional materials on the environment
production educational material on the environment (production of
9 documents on themes relevant to regions of North, Center-West
and Northeast (three documents respectively by Nov.90/91192)
production of 3 methodological documents (North Nov.90  Center
West, Nov. 91; Northeast Nov.92)
2 Videos (1990) methodological/legal
12 Radio programs (by August 91)
3 Videos on Conservation Units (by August 1991)
10 Information leaflets (by Pkuist 1991)
structure correspondence course to reach 3000 participants
Support to Pantanal. Atlantic Forest and BraziiLan Coast projects/
supervision (annually to each region)
2. Evaluation
ti) fo: the ealuation of urotress and alitv of ecutions
(a) Structurina of SlAMA
What are the progress, results and issues Lu the structuring of



-68 -                        Annex 9
Page 12 of 13
IBAHA?
_        What are the quality of teaching materials and of cOurses promoted
by IBAMA's Unit for Human Resources and Training? How is their
work being accepted and judged in terms of its usefulness within
the environmental sector?
_        Regarding the consolidation of all environmental legislation: what
are the legal aspects on which work has been carried out? How
strong is the lnterest of States to obtain support from 1BAMA in
this area?
-        What, if any, are pending key issues in the implantation of REIMA
(one National Center and support to 27 state level documentation
centers)?
-        To the extent that they function already, what has been the output
and contribution of the three new centers for the interpretation
of remote sensing?
(b) Suooort for Environmental Action Programs
evaluation would concentrate on the aspects of selection criteria in, and
quality and preliminary results oft
_        Strengthening at least 10 environmental agencies (OEMAs) in the
project's priority areas;
-        Support to at least thirty local training programs;
-        Support of four pilot projects in new conservation strategies;
-        IBAMAs technical assistance to States and Municipalities in the
preparation of small environmental projects, for the purpose of
obtaining external financing;
cc) Technolosies for environmental administration:
Evaluation should follow-up on the terms of reference and performance of
research networks, and on study, workshop and publication outputs proposed
for the processes of elaboration of revised guidelines for the preparation
of RIMAs, Environmental Zoning, River Basin Planning and Ecotoxicology.
(d) Environmental Education:
Evaluation should focus on questions oft
-        quality, use and costs of education materials produced?
-        performnce of IAM&'s education division, which is being
strengthened under the project?
-        Integration of lBAMA's education activities with related
activities of other federal (e.g. EKBRATER, BORWPA) and state
agencies?
(ii) For looaer tesm enact evaluations
Is the project making progress towards
-        consolidating the re-organization of the National Environmental
Agency (IBAM1O?
-        Improving federal and state level environmental administration,
especially with regard to the enforcement of the regulatory



b9-
Annex 9
Page 13 of 13
f ramework?
supporting the exe ative, legislative and jurisdiction powers of
the federal and st. te governments in the elaboration and
strengthening of o environmental legislation?
contributing towar s more knawledgeable decision making in the
environmental sect r, as a result of RENIM&?
increasing the tec aical capabilities and use of satellite imagery
f6r environmental anagament and planning?
increasing municip 1 and local participation in the resolution of
environmental prob ems?



- 70 -
ANNEX 10o 
Document Available Ln the Proiect Fil.
1.       Institutional Development Component (IDAMA, August 1989; in
Portuguese)t contains full component description, monitoring and
evaluation  indicators, and implementation schedule.
2.       Conservation Units Component (IAMA, August 1989, La Portuguese):
contains full camponent description, sonitoring and evaluation
Indicators, and implemntation schedule.
S.       Conservation Units Components lank Working Paper, October 1989
(being up-dated, to Include September 89 mission data):
4.       Protection of Icosystems Componants Pantanal (IlhMA, August 1989,
In Portuguese)l contains full component description, monitoring
and evaluation Indicators, *and implementation schedule.
S.       Protection of Ieosystems Components Atlantic Forest (IBAMA. August
1989, In Portuguese): contains full component description.
monitoring and evaluation indicators, and implementation schedule.
6.       Protection of gcosystoms Components Coastal Management (LAMA,
August 1969, In Portuguese): contains full component description,
monitoring sad evaluation Indicators, and implementation schedule.
7.       Project Organisation and Implementation (llAMA, August 1989: in
Portuguese):
B.       Draft Project Operating Agreeeants
9.       Annual Operating Plans for all project components, for Year 1.
10.      Project Cost tables.
:1.      Znviroamintal legislation.
12.      A review of IrasilLan legislation affecting the environment (SENA,
1986, In Portuguese) :
13.      Position Descriptions for Year 1 higher level staff and
consultantst
14.      Position Descriptions for Sechnical Assistance requested by SlAMA
from MS ln connection with the project.
15.      Outline for Semlnar to be held by IllwA  to familiarioe all of Its
staff vith the project objectives, targets and coordination
arrangements:
16.      Description of pilot activities proposed under the Institutional
Development Component Znvironmental Action Progrms:



seve o2    2
?        f JPralltanary study sad cn    of tefereuce for LaproVeesnt  of the
Is.      Legisltion certifying that OTitulos de Dlvi1  Agrarle' can be
used for purposes of indeunlflcatlon in connection with the
protection of natural resources.
9.      *The *Ross& Matures* Ptrogram.



!                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 22019
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r VENZUEA  Zm                                                                                                   I L 
COLOMBIA  t     t         i          gURINAME ~~~~~~IGUIA Cowa N.                    A I! !1 fiC:                 NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
6, Ro8e<G~~~~~~~~~~UMYOCL                                                                       FEDEM CONSERVATION UNITS
,0.                                                                                                            =                                                        EINdNR(m\A,.,  r|Nloal Porb
% > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F>,    t   Btological Rees a
>     ;4flJ4dE.a.   O-NDAuiu~~~L.  J         tVAl,N4a              ,7,                                                                                   Naflonal Fomwts
^- > | VJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C)UANINF                                 W_*K  MAW2FO lNS.    N.t.                   r-f  I ]forest Resere
w @  pSW401l4eEse.a.  /    grAN^SNS.                   fiwau^            )               esn                                Ecoloaical Reser*RKeesAMIP.  Eologcal esem
SJ ~~~~~AMAZONAS                                                                                   PAR  / ~mAtsa$nDomA #                           Ecologtical Staions
f                nrENft   W                 /~~   Nt                ,!?WlaAIomwa&Q   IRANHA'                  CEARA           KKrwOlla                 Environmental PrnMecion Area
TUI KFP~~~ 8:RAPEONC  1                                                            JON,
_ S                                   7               Atrk.    4        t         <     PIAUI >               =               v       ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  Intbmationzl Boundaries
-10' |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N.P.                                                       Ot                             OS9DA 0, 7.50    Soo  750    100
t   \ -    5         S       ~~~~~~~~~M ATO G ROS SO                 CHPA                            5LA-S  K                        __ 
, ) j , (toOs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VLADERDS MS  f>@IUE
BOLIVIA                                                                   S. 89 C 5 A I I A 5 - Ii                                     *t-V_ *X_ 
\  '                           ;    \5;1MASN.P              S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINAS GERAIS  KRLN  
t  \                  I               _\,         * A,/       H>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANWGA LS.    A, DO N.20                                           
0    8            r'~~~~~~~~~~~'8 ~~~ MATOCGROSSO                EFL X  SAMO9Crd, .                    IL                                                  A  ,x
I    t                       '    N.E  s s(A5>RtNA le CA e 5                                                                             t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  k
cL   i   \  j U~~~~~~~~~~~~PRAGUAY               j                --ax r'  ...
CATAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME AMEI89



im _ lemlfz of ItJ e             t         Coeervatloe  Units i te           t           Cenltie   ata   t
obau of seam cauriae  Stou of Part o         State f Se po  le
SI-t. Park of Aparidoe da Sarre             Il-Foreatly Park Rio da Once                 Si-Stat Pork of ilho do Caeao                            !
t4lat. Pork of Sao Joaquim                  t2-Bilogilcal Rearve State of euarguaco      U2-State Park of Jecapirang
U-tate Park of Serra do Tobuleiro          USIoloeieal Roerwo  lananciala de Serra       US-PA Coamanl  rapn - Pewulbe
04-State Park Serre Furada                 5Stat. Park of Lauraces o4-WAP Ilba CarpMde
-BIoloilcal R_arvn State of Cnaela Preto  t6-Metropolltans State Foreat                  Ud-EcoloIcal S*taton Cbce
_-Bloleelcl Rarnve State of Sassafras       SState Park of Capinbo.                       S-iEcologicl btation S  rea l I nl.
t -1ilogical Reeerva Stae of Agua i          -Stat Park of Eutrealnl                     07-Tuneltic State Park of Alto Rtbhei aITMi      
US-Ecologlcal Station of Bracinly.         tl-A.E.I.T. Marabi I                           S-AP  Serra do Mar
-Ectlegical Statlon of abtenta               t-A.E.I.T. inbrbl II                        UBPaFzenda Fund"e Foreetal
is-Ecelolcal Station of Canijee            l-Ecological Statlon of Buaraquwecb           If-Ecological Station of XI*Ae
Il-Forbetry Park of Rio Vermalib           U-Ecologlcal Station of Ilhb do Mel           11-Stat. Park Ceellos Sotlke
12-Municipal Park of Laoee do Pel          12-A.P.A. of Buarequecba                      12-Stat Raeren of Sae Reqw
13-Stat. Park of Serrea do Map
Cau_atiown unlts of thd                     Ceaeralioe Unit. of "ae                      14-Area obead1 do   uilebek
State of Rh de Jalre                       State of Ea.initu Seat.                         -tate Park of libblaea
16-StOat Park of liba Anchieft
sil" lonal Park of Itatlela                gi-MunTcipal Ecological Station Elhb do       17-4ational Park of Serra locaina
US-Naional Park of Serra Bocuinn               Lael roo
US-Ecological Eaarve of Prai deo Sal       SE-Municipal Rnenw Senra do AricnPg
044tate Park of Ilba Brrnde                U-lunicipel Reaere of Mangueale do                                                                    t
a"-Aqeologicol Bologi0cal Reserve             Eatuario of Rise Piraqueac  * Piraquslez                                                           t
of Buaratibe                            54-Ecological Station MoIablro Morro de Varge
US-Stat  Park of Pedro Branc"              ff-Prennt Preservation Area of Mate de* Flor.                                                         t
S7-Fure Netlonal Pork of Tinra             US-Foretry Reern of Snoal do Norte
S-National Park of Tlju c7aU-atIonal Park of Caparae
00-Fortatry Rerne of traje                 US-Stat. Park of Ctcboelra do F_aa
1UUielogcal Reserve of Are                 U19-State Park of Forno trand
U-Natlonal Park of Serrg doe Urep.          W-4oretry Reserve of Pedro Atul
1-State Park of dessgeno                   l-liological Rerne of Can  Io.
12-St.t. Park o FPont (irendo
l1Biological Rkeve rositra Alvaro
14-Biological Resern of Nova Lonberdla
I-iological Reenv, of Corbolio
lWForestry Raere at oitactaco
17-Foretry  servr of C.V.R.D.
-I-15lologlcal Reern. ot Soonetane
1B-Foreetry R.arve Corrgoo do Vado
2S-Faze_de Sao Joequl-
o>>
-    -                         / f  ly 
! 8:i lle ve  r-                         >                          t                                           II9
>                              ;V~~~~~ 
Z-0                                          >\Sl- 0 ''0 
* .0S  S          plil  ''" ''';u '''T ''X'                                          m
-'I ~~ A                   rA  
0.               z~~
9
j~~~
-14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
to ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
4!~~~~~~~~~~j                                 __~~~~~~~~~~c
~~   d                                       V                                                                                         .5~~~~



IBRD 22059
B R A Z I L
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
PROJECT
MATO   GROSSO                                               THE PANTANAL
The Pontonol
- /  _    Major Road$
.  15                         - '  \                                         -_- Rivetrs
1 1                                                                   0 9  t3   Stote Capitots
teat---Staot Boundaries
>   %      /                  CulobO                          _._~~~~~W6  Intemcffonol Boundoeries
o c'L g   /   \ )   5^<k,  ,  5,0  190  1 5O  290  2,0
--Y aV<(*-- Af ,-5 A Kt~~~~~~~~~~~1GOMEtERS
~~~~~~~~~~G                                                          toAs
BO LI V IA
-2                                                      DOR;  S   S O,
20'                       -<3                                    J St            '                               0
-u- .n .9 -        * im Camp. Grand.
N~ ~ ~ o        (/W                    9                                            BRAZIL  t
.~~~~                         ~       ~~~~~~           ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A Zi \-  L
Area of Map  * St@ii@
#  '  /                    k-  ,, COLOMjBt          &,.S,           /tsBOLM
>--\ PARAGeA  ,
J'ANUARY IP



0   7i   f    E gEIN^ M ES  9-                                               4                            ~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTALj
i . -t t -/ @ S C C E 7 II ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ATURAL VEGETATION
<, t Az < 9>t t; - oo_ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Steppe savanna
-7                           X_X6X   mLui
1 >  io   8)  (        t       t    tJ  X       +       0   g     ;     >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IE              z    Pi e@LximonclfilunneinEu@Samp an sod frmanon
/   ;<                                                                                                  m    *Q_ w_giun <11 rl ,.E~~~~~~~-r.ole
[: r   ;   !             f  L                         ;                                                     _ _   InilimCll aI Lst0*d s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ene mmo  Alatc ors
V x   J   >  P A R A      G        U       A|                                    200- OLOMsa \a q-+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tanign ors
m  R    .                  <                                    /4, w 0                         2                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Noa
eel(                                                                  ARENINe wforst  i  BLV
r        / 'A         u v e                              7    7o  =,o  oRR  *7    ;           .,      rv - <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jao em
> t ,{ U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R ifAYe 2=                                                     Smidcduou  fores
Decidum~~~~ANAR fores



