Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Japanese Grant Agreement
(National Environmental Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated September 18, 1991
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1991, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 3, 1987 between Japan and 
the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administrator 
grant funds to be made available
by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available a 
grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. (a) The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants 
(the Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise 
in the following areas:
(a)
biology;
 
(b)
cartography; and
 
(c)
environmental zoning.
 
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "yen" and "Y" mean the 
currency of Japan, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well 
as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to provide a total of 20 man-months 
of service.
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to secure the 
services of the Consultants'
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance on a grant 
basis the following expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
 
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
 
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by 
the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services.
Section 2.03. The amount of the Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical 
Assistance pursuant to Section 2.02 shall not exceed the equivalent of thirty seven 
million yen (Y37,000,000).
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Administrator and shall be done according to 
the Administrator's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator and the 
Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and 
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its 
officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by 
third parties against the Administrator. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or 
resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and consult on 
any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations 
Page  3
made in those reports.
Section 4.02. The Administrator may use any reports prepared by the Consultants 
for any purpose that the Administrator may consider appropriate but those reports may 
not be made public except by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 5.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Administrator in writing 
to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the Technical Assistance if any
circumstances arise that, in the opinion of the Administrator, interfere or threaten 
to interfere with the successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the 
accomplishment of its purposes, or the execution of the Technical Assistance in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Section 5.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further 
action that may be necessary or
desirable.
Section 5.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of
the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The institutions responsible for the implementation of this 
Agreement shall be:
For the Recipient:
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos
Recursos Naturais Renovaveis - IBAMA
SAIN - Av. L4 Norte S.No.
Ed. Sede IBAMA
708000 Brasilia, D.F. - BRAZIL
Telex:
61-2120 or 61-1711
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Machado Fracarolli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
1.
Technical assistance to support the preparation of the Conservation Units 
component of the National Environmental Project in respect of which the Recipient 
intends to request financial assistance from the Administrator. Such Project would: 
(a) strengthen the environmental institutional structure in Brazil, which includes, 
inter alia, the Federal Environmental Institution (IBAMA); and the Environmental 
Agencies at the level of the States of the Recipient; and (b) assist in the protection 
and expansion of
the national network of environmental conservation areas, the protection of threatened 
ecosystems and essential environmental analysis, information and training. The 
technical assistance would consist of:
(a)
Consultants' services to assist in identifying and defining scientific 
criteria and priorities in the conservation of bio-diversity including to this effect:
(i)
a seminar to report and discuss the current biological knowledge 
with relevant 
federal and state government representatives 
and make recommendations on new 
conservation alternatives;
 
(ii)
preparation and publication of a map of areas essential to the 
conservation of 
bio-diversity; and
 
(iii)
preparation and publication of a report to provide guidance for 
the selection and
implementation of measures in support of bio-diversity 
conservation.
(b)
Consultative services to assist the Federal Environmental Institution 
(IBAMA) in developing an action plan for the protection of bio-diversity priority 
areas.
2.
The cost to be financed from the Japanese Grant Funds are estimated as follows 
(in $ thousands):
(a)
Conservation of bio-diversity study:
 
            Consultants                         100.0
            Travel                               40.0
Page  5
            Seminar                              30.0
            Report/Maps                          20.00
                                                ______
            Subtotal                            190.0
      (b)   Preparation of protection plan:
            Consultants                          60.0
            Travel                               24.074
                                                _______
            Total                               274.074
3.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior 
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of $27,407 may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1989.
