                                     DemocraticRepublic of Congo
                                      EconomicRecovery Credit
                                           Cr. 38620-DRC
                            Release of the CentralizedPaymentsTranche


                                          I. Background

 1.      The DRC continues its recovery from decades o f mismanagement and collapse o f the
 State under the regime o f Mobutu Sese Seko culminating in a dreadful decade o f political
 instability and conflict involving groups from the entire Great Lakes region. The destruction and
 decay o f physical and social infrastructure caused by the conflict have contributed to a death toll
 between 1.5 and 3 million since 1997. Since January 2001, the Congolese authorities have taken
 a number o f important steps to implement the 1999 Lusaka Peace Accord and agreements
 reached through the inter-Congolese dialogue, to liberalize political life and to address key
 economic issues. A coalition government of transition is functioning and the country is on track
 for elections. A UNpeacekeeping force, the Mission d 'Observation des Nations Unies au Congo
 (MONUC) has been deployed throughout the country. While localized ethnic violence continues,
UNforces are beginningto stabilize even these specific districts. Just as the instability, conflict,
 and ungovemability o f the D R C had regional implications, the stabilization o f the D R C i s key to
 sustainable peace inthe region.

2.      Inthis environment, the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy discussed bythe Board on
February 26, 2004, supports the government's far-reaching program o f economic reform in
preparation for sustainable growth and poverty reduction. It builds o n the achievements o f the
last two years to deepen support in social stability and security; shared economic growth,
including deepening o f ongoing economic reforms, reform o f the payroll system for public
servants, and reviving a competitive private sector; capacity and governance; and social
development. Proceeds o f the Credit, which is an integral part o f the TSS, have provided funds
necessary to support D R C reform efforts and have helped finance the economy's continued
stabilization, rehabilitation andreconstruction.

3.      The Government's reforms o f economic governance have included fiscal stabilization
(now inits fourth year); liberalization o f prices, interest rates, foreign exchange and gem trading;
Central Bank, liquidation o f non-performing banks and restructuring o f the weakest remaining
ones coupled with banking and co-operative banking acts; steps to implement the new Codes for
Mining andForestry, and continued implementation of a broad set o f good governance and anti-
corruption policies. A program o f reform and privatization o f public enterprises i s underway,
together with tax and regulatory reforms designed to facilitate private sector growth and job-
creation. The Government continues to negotiate with its external creditors to lighten the
remaining burden o f debt service. Inaddition to supporting this ongoing program o f reforms, the
Credit addresses the settlement o f internal debts-to    private creditors and to public utilities with
services important to the poor-and      takes some extremely urgent initial steps which will permit
the restructuring o f the civil service.

                    11.    RECENTPOLITICAL AND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS

 4.      Progress continues in the process of peace, reunification and political reconciliation.
 The Congolese continue the important steps they began in 2001 to implement the 1999 Lusaka
 Peace Accord and agreements reached through the inter-Congolese dialogue, to liberalize
 political life and to address key economic issues. On October 1, 2004 (resolution 1565 (2004))
 the Security Council expanded the mandate United Nations Organization Mission in the Congo
 (MONUC) and authorized an increase in its troop strength to 16,700 (from 10,800). Its forces
 have been redeployed from their former observation posts throughout the country where peace
 has been firmly established to the remaining areas o f localized ethnic violence in the Northeast,
 and it i s beginning to stabilize even these regions. The effectiveness o f the reunification was
 marked in October 2004 by a visit by President Kabila to formerly-rebel held Kisangani.
 However, the brief seizures in late M a y o f the eastern city of Bukavu by ethnic militants, and in
 October o f a town in Katanga by an unknown armed group, demonstrates that the process i s
 incomplete.

 5.     At the same time, the Demobilization, Repatriation, Resettlement and Reintegration
program, supported by the UN and IDA, has become operational and is beginning to help ex-
 combatants, including child soldiers, to reintegrate themselves into society, and the provision o f
assistance to child soldiers has already begun. The program i s supported by the Multi-country
Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) for the Great Lakes Region, which was
considered by the Executive Directors o f IDA on April 18, 2002 and financed by grants from
several countries and international organizations. The command structure o f the combined armed
forces has been reunified and regional military commanders have been appointed and taken their
posts throughout the country, though a small number of soldiers o f former rebel groups have
refused to join. The European Union (EU) in September 2004 launched a program to train a
national police force that respects human rights, with members also drawn from all o f the former
armed groups, and plans to expand this program to five centers nationwide. The long-term aim is
to train 9,000 police officers to lead a police force that can replace M O N U C by June 2005.

6.      On the domestic front, the all-inclusive Government of national unity which took power
on June 30, 2003 with representation o f all key armed groups, unarmed opposition, and civil
society continues to demonstrate cooperation rather than conflict. The National Assembly is
applying strict standards of fiscal discipline to proposed legislation. Elections are scheduled by
June 2005, a calendar which the Special Representative o f the Secretary General calls tight but
tenable. On October 8 the government issued a "roadmap" defining, ina consensual manner, the
actions timing to be undertaken by each of the institutions of the Republic during the remaining
eight months o f the transition. The Parliament must pass about 15 essential laws as well as the
Constitution, all by December 2005.

7.      The Government continues to implement satisfactorily an economic program that has
been supported since 2001 by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF). The
economy grew at 3 percent in 2002 and 4 percent in 2003, reversing years o f decline.
Hyperinflation has been broken, with the price level rising at less than 5 percent in2003. Fiscal
revenues, which were only 5.1 percent o f a reduced GDP in 2000, reached 7.7 percent in 2003
and are targeted to reach 9.2 percent in2004. The debt burden is becoming less onerous as D R C



                                                   2

 was granted debt relief on Naples terms by the Paris Club in September 2002, and reached the
 Decision Point under the enhancedH P C Initiative inJuly 2003.

 8.      These developments point to the continued commitment o f all stakeholders to peace and
 the maintenance o f a viable process o f peaceful electoral transition, characterized by potentially
 credible institutions (including local and national administration, legislature, regulatory bodies,
 and civil society organizations providing outside oversight o f democratic governance and
 transparency), as well as the protection o f human rights and anticomption programs. They
 indicate a window o f opportunity for peace and recovery in the DRC and an opportunity for
peace in the entire Central African region. This opportunity calls for continued donor support as
 the country i s reunified, a national administration i s re-established in the formerly occupied
territories, and the country deals with the threat of continued localized violence as it prepares
peacefully for a new constitution and national elections.

                             111.    RECENT    ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

9.       With respect to economic reform, the government's heavily front-loaded economic
reform program from June 2001 to March 2002, monitored by IMF staff, succeeded in
eliminating hyperinflation, liberalizing the economy and initiating major structural reforms. The
program under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), approved by the Executive
Directors o f the InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF) on June 12, 2002 has also been satisfactorily
implemented, with the fourth review presented to the Fund's Board on July 12, 2004. A fifth
reviewmission is scheduled for November 2004.

Performanceunder the PRGF-supportedProgram

 10.     Through end-March 2004, overall performance under the program continued to be
satisfactory, with good progress on the structural front. Economic growth was higher than
envisaged, reaching 5.6 percent in2003, and inflation decelerated more rapidly than programmed
to less than five percent in2003.

11.      Fiscal developments. The end-2003 fiscal objectives were missed by less than one
percent o f GDP. Fiscal performance at end-March 2004 differed slightly from the programmed
amounts on both the revenue (lower by 0.5 percent o f GDP, excluding grants) and the
expenditure (higher by 0.5 percent) side. The revenue shortfall reflecteddelays inthe adoption o f
legislative texts related to tariff and tax reform, the granting o f tax exemptions, and delays intax
payments. The programmed shift toward pro-poor spending was largely achieved (although the
2003 target itself was modest), while the share o f security expenditure (2.1 percent o f GDP) was
in line with program. Pro-poor spending was targeted to rise significantly in 2004, from 1.5
percent to 6.6 percent o f GDP (and from 11.7 percent to 34.3 percent o f government
expenditure). However, there is evidence that the administration has been unable to meet this
goal, partially because o f lack o f capacity to program and to spend expeditiouslythe anti-poverty
fund newly created under the terms o f the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, and because of slow
disbursementsbydonors.

12.     On the external side, the current account balance, including grants and debt relief,
turned from a deficit of 4.7 percent of GDP in 2001 to a small surplus o f 0.6 percent o f GDP in



                                                   3

 2002, due to a strong growth o f exports and external grants and despite a sharp rise o f imports
 (including unofficial imports). Due to lower than expected disbursements o f project loan
 financing, the overall balance o f payments for 2003 was -US$348 million rather than the
 projected US$263 mission. In 2003 the gross foreign reserves o f the BCC increased by US$22
 million, and those o f commercial banks byUS$84 million.

 13,     The foreign exchange market has functioned satisfactorily since the liberalization o f
 foreign exchange regulations in February 2001 and the unification o f the foreign exchange
 market inM a y 2001. The nominal exchange rate has been relatively stable compared to the U.S.
 dollar in 2003-4, although it appreciated significantly in early 2004 before returning to its end-
 2003 value (417 end-December 2003 vs. 420 end-September 2004). The real effective rate o f
 exchange depreciated by about 20 percent 2003-2004, reflecting the decline o f the US. dollar
 against the Euro.

 14.     The Government continues to develop its full PRSP through a representative and
participatory process. With the allocation by the National Assembly o f US$600,000 as well as
 financing from several development partners, the funds necessary for these activities were largely
 assembled by July 2004; the work has been underway since October 2003 and the fieldwork
 since mid-2004. The full PRSP i s scheduledto be completed during the thirdquarter o f 2005.

           Iv.      PROGRESSUNDERTHE PmRC FINANCEDADJUSTMENTPROGRAM

A.      Overview

 15.    The PRERC supports broad reforms in critical areas: (i) continued implementation o f
                                                                    the
economic reforms throughout the country; (ii)civil service reform, and in particular the
retirement o f staff having reached retirement age; and (iii)completing the process of debt
reduction and restructuring begun under the ERC, interms o f both settling arrears and preventing
the accumulation o f new arrears. Implementation is generally satisfactory. As described above,
the government has successfully maintained a macroeconomic policy framework for growth and
poverty reduction that i s consistent with the objectives of the reform program, one o f the
requirements for the tranche release. The remainder o f the present memorandum concentrates on
developments in re-establishing a satisfactory system o f payments for government consumption
o f public utilities, specifically electricity and water, companies for which the arrears o f their
largest client has a significant impact on their ability to deliver services to the private sector and
the poor. Details pertaining to the other aspects o f the program maybe found inthe Annex.

B.      Reformof Utilities Billingand Centralized Payment

16.     The reform o f public expenditure management and the establishment o f firm fiscal
controls are an important component o f the government's reform program, a component which i s
receiving extensive assistance from the IMF and from IDA. Early steps in this reform revealed
that continued significant underpayment o f amounts due to public utilities has had a significant
negative impact on both the electric company, the SocietC National d'Electricit6 (SNEL) and the
drinking water utility, RCgie des Eaux (RCgideso). For both these companies the government is
by far the largest customer, so its inability to pay more than a small fraction o f amounts due
causes significant harm to their receipts and their ability to serve other customers, including the



                                                   4

 poor. The Government's draft 2004 budget provides approximately US$21 million for water and
 electricity expenditures while the providers estimate the combined amount due to be about three
 times that amount, or U S $ 6 1 millionper year. Partly as a result o f the on-going accumulation o f
 arrears, utilities seek other means o f covering their expenses. These means include charging high
 rates to good clients, the business and industrial consumers o f electricity, or reducing expenses
 through lowering the quality o f service to the public (such as non-potable water or frequent
 electricity outages). Resolution o f the ongoing accumulation o f arrears by their largest client -
 the Government and its agencies-- can permit the utilities to improve their service to the public.
 While the problem exists for other utilities, the recently established mobile telephone companies
 have been able to avoid the problem by sticking strictly to a prepaid system o f access, and while
 it is significant for the accounts o f other utilities (fixed telephones, petroleum products), this has
 a lower overall cost to the economy.

 17.     Reform o f the system, and resumption o f f i l l payments, has been hampered by the
 absence o f a viable billing process. Service points are diffuse, building by building throughout
the country, and some services (such as street lighting) are billed by sample methods rather than
by metering. Instead, many bills are based on pro forma estimates, established long ago and
unchanged despite changes in government consumption (either at the margin, or following the
loss o f entire units such as a closed office or an abandoned building). Services which could be
metered are not, for example most military bases.

 18.     The utilities would be prepared to establish through audit, metering and other means, a
transparent dependable system for billing the government. However, the enormity o f the
investment would require that it yield an immediate return, which, even ifthey had the necessary
funding for the investment, would not happenunless the government were to resume payment on
the items now correctly billed.

19.      The objectiveof the PRERCin reformof centralizedpaymentsis to strengthen public
expenditure management. It will free government resources for a transition o f notional payments
o f the government's bill for one year, in exchange for which the utilities-beginning            with the
water and electric utilities-will    establish a transparent billing system for the government, in
order that after one year a new billing system will be established and honored by the government.
The methodology established will permit the government to reform its billing and payments
systems with other utilities.

20.      Impact of PRERC reforms.Assistance to the Government in reducing arrears should
hrther the Government's efforts to improve the management o f its utility service payment
obligations. The end o f many years o f continual accrual o f arrears will improve the management
process at public utilities. It will reduce bills to other consumers o f the utilities, and permit
increases in the quality o f service. It will also help the utilities strengthen their billing processes:
the Government i s requiring all suppliers henceforth to provide more accurate bills for services
rendered as a condition o f payment.

         v.       CONDITIONS FORRELEASE OFTHE CENTRALIZEDPAYMENTSTRANCHE

21.      The Development Credit Agreement states that two general conditions must be met at the
moment of the PRERC public utilities (centralized payments) tranche release: (i)        the Association



                                                     5

 i s satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out o f the Program; and
 (ii) macroeconomic policyframeworkoftheBorrowerissatisfactory, asmeasuredonthe
      the
 basis of indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association. Besides these, two
 specific conditions for the public utilities tranche releasemustbe met.

 22.      Overall execution of the PRERC Program.Overall progress in implementation of the
 PRERC-financed program i s satisfactory and timely, and Government's commitment remains
 firm. Recommendation of IMF staff to its Board to complete the fourth review of the PRGF
program supports the evaluation that the macroeconomic policy framework and program
 execution are satisfactory. The indicators for the macroeconomic policy framework are given in
 the Government's Economic Program and are consistent with those o f the PRGF. These
indicators have been updated (in French, October 18) by the Ministry o f Finance's Technical
Committee for Monitoring Economic Reforms ("Matrice des Reformes Economiques," (Matrix
o f Economic Reforms)). The policy reforms are summarized inthe Annex o f this memorandum.

23.       Specific conditionalitypertainingto centralizedpayments. The Borrower has met the
condition for the release o f the public utilities (centralized payments) floating tranche o f the
PRERC, which reads as follows: "[tlhe Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association pursuant to paragraph 74 o f the Letter of
Development Policy, inter alia that: (1) an action plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, has been adopted and i s being carried out by the Borrower to control utility use and
related centralized payments; and (2) SNEL and RCgideso have begun to implement respective
action plans in form and substance satisfactory to the Association to improve the reliability, the
transparency and the accountability o f their respective billing procedures o f the Borrower's
public administration." The Borrower has adopted an action plan which details measures to be
implemented in order to control utility use.         These measures include redefining regulatory
framework, holding line ministries and local governments accountable for their utility use, and
revisingthe billingprocedure. The actions already taken by the Borrower include redefiningthe
regulatory framework and agreeing on the protocols with SNEL and RCgideso to improve the
billing procedure. SNEL andRCgideso have also adopted action plans that specify concrete steps
to achieve the stated goals: the SNEL action plan calls for an audit o f Government designated
distributionposts, establishing the identityo f the billable public sector client base, procuring and
installing new meters as necessary, and introducing a validated computerized monthly billing
system; the RCgideso action plan involves educating institutional clients in the purpose and
modalities o f the revisedsystem, identifyingdistributionpoints andprocuringhnstallingmeters at
key points, together with improving the water distribution system between these points and the
final user (to eliminate unmetered access), and monitoring and evaluation o fprogress andresults.
Actions already underway include establishing the audit o f distribution posts by SNEL and the
acquisitiono fmeters byResideso. Supporting documentation i s as follows:

         (a)     "Protocol o f agreement Among the Government o f the Democratic Republic o f
                 Congo, the National Electricity Company and the Water Distribution Board on the
                Financing o f an Action Plan on Mastering its Common Charges." (Protocole
                 d 'accord entre le Gouvernement de la Re`publique De`mocratique du Congo, La
                Socie`te` Nationale d'Electvicite` et la Re`gie de Distribution d'eau sur le
                Financement du Plan d'Actions du Gouvernement sur la Maitrise des Charges
                 Communes), September 21,2004.


                                                   6

"Protocol o f agreement Betweenthe Government of the Democratic Republic o f
Congo, the National Electricity Company on the Payment for Provision o f Electric
Energy Supplies to Public Services." (Protocole d'accord entre le Gouvernement
de la Re`publique De`mocratique du Congo, et la Socie`tk Nationale d 'Electricite`
sur le Paiement des Prestations de Fournitures d 'Energie Electrique aux Services
Publics), signed September21,2004.

"Protocol o f agreement Between the Government o f the Democratic Republic o f
Congo and the RCgideso on the Payment for Provision o f Water Supplies to
Public Services." (Protocole d'accord entre le Gouvernement de la Re`publique
Dr2mocratique du Congo, et la Re`gideso sur le Paiement des Prestations de
Fournitures d 'Eau aux Services Publics), signed September 21,2004.

Ministkre du Budget, "Action Plan to Improve Management o f Common
Charges"    (Plan d 'actions pour 1'amdioration de la gestion des charges
communes). FCvrier 2004. Transmittal letter signed by Franqois Muamba,
Minister,May29,2004.

RCgideso, "Action Planto Improve Reliability o fmeteringwater consumption and
Billing by the Regideso" (Plan d'actions de jabilisation du comptage des
consummations d'eau et de facturation i.0 Regideso). Signed by Lubunga pene
Shako, Administrateur-DCleguC GCnCral and Sango Nabina, Administrateur
DCleguC GCnCral Adjoint. September 2004.

National Electric Company (Socie`te` Nationale d 'Electricite`), "Reliability and
transparency o f procedures for billing official authorities"        (Fiabilite` et
transparence des proce`dures defacturation des instances oflcielles.) September
2004.

Letter from Regideso to the Minister o f Energy, "Report on the State o f
Implementation o f the Action Plan for Improving Reliability o f metering water
consumption and Billing (Official Sites)" (Rapport sur 1'Etat d 'exe`cutiondu plan
d'actions de3abilisation du comptage des consummations d 'eau et defacturation
i.o (Instances Ofjcielles). Signed by Lubunga pene Shako, Administrateur-
DCleguC GCnCral and Sango Nabina, Administrateur DCleguC GCnCral Adjoint.
October 26,2004.

A program evaluation note on improving reliability of the billing procedures by
SNEL. October 2004.

Letter from the Minister o f Energy attesting that SNEL and RCgideso have begun
to implement respective action plans. October 28,2004.




                                 7

                                     VI.   CONCLUSION

24.     All conditions for the release o f the Centralized Payments Tranche of the Post-
Reunification Economic Recovery Credit have been met. Overall execution o f the program is
satisfactory. The macroeconomic framework i s consistent with the objectives o f the program and
execution i s satisfactory. The Government o f the Democratic Republic o f Congo has therefore
been advised that the Centralized Payments Floating Tranche, in an amount o f SDR 16.9million
is now available for disbursement.




                                                8

                                              Annex
           Status of Executionof Letter of DevelopmentPolicy as of November2004


  A-1.   Overall, execution o f policy measures contained in the Letter of Development Policy
 (LDP) has been satisfactory. Progress has beenmade indiverse areas such as preparation o f the
 full PRSP,demobilization and reinsertion of former combatants, civil service reforms, public
 expenditure management, forestry reforms, social sector and rural development, and
 infrastructure. A summary o f this progress i s outlined below according to the main areas o f the
 Letter of Development Policy: (A) poverty; (B) maintaining peace and improving govemance;
 (C) public enterprise reform; (D) natural resources management; (E) social sectors; (F)
 agriculture and rural development; and (G) infrastructure.
 A.      Poverty
  A-2.   The PRSP process continues on a revised schedule. The I-PRSP was completed on
 schedule inmid-2002. The actionplanand chronogram for the full PRSP were completed inJune
2003, and the workshop launching an information, education, communicationcampaign was held
in December 2003. Certain components of the process have been delayed by up to several
months, some due to financing problems, others due to adopting a more ambitious plan. The
Government expects to complete the first draft o f full PRSP by May 2005, and distribute it to
national and intemational development partners in July 2005, which represents a delay o f two
months from the original date. The adoption o f the PRSP i s still expected for August 2005. The
completion and a year o f satisfactory execution o f the full PRSP i s a HIPC completion point
trigger.


B.       MaintainingPeaceand ImprovingGovernance
 A-3,    Security sector reform i s supported with the national Demobilization, Disarmament,
and Reinsertion (DDR) program, launched in December 2003. As targeted, the institutional
structure to steer and implement the national program was established and the DDR program
finalized in January 2004 after consultations and national dissemination. The disarmament and
demobilization phase has begun in April 2004, and the reinsertion and reintegration phase was
launched inNovember 2004.
 A-4. As concrete steps to fight against corruption, a decree on a Code o f Good Conduct for
Civil Servants, a law against money laundering and financing o fterrorism, and an anti-corruption
law were enacted.
A-5. There has been significant progress in public expenditure management under the
Government's program. The public expenditure classification has been revisedin conformity to
intemational standards. Modernization and streamlining o f public expenditure procedures were
achieved by September 2003, although scopes for improvement still remain. The progress made
allows the government to analyze its expenditures better, as well as to disseminate the budget
execution results for improved transparency. A poverty expenditure monitoring committee,
which verifies the progress made in combating poverty, was established in 2003. In 2004, the
government started to produce quarterly budget execution reports using the new economic,
administrative, and functional classifications.   The reports also present execution results o f



                                                 9

 poverty-related and HIPC-financed expenditures. A double-entry accounting system i s expected
 to be adopted in2004-2005 (the last two points are HIPC completionpoint triggers).
  A-6.  Payroll reforms are also underway: the salary payment system was audited in the first
 trimester o f 2004; a new (transitional) payroll procedure i s expected to be implementedbefore
 April 2005; a central database o f civil servants will be created when the census results become
 available inNovember 2005 (slightlybehindschedule).
  A-7. Procurement reform began in April 2004 with a complete audit o f the current system,
 assisted by the World Bank in the form o f a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR).
 The elaboration and implementation o f a new procurement code and its principal application
 decrees, a HIPC completion point trigger, are planned for 2004 -2006.
 A-8.   Civil service reforms started with institutional audits o f selected ministries. A civil
 service census to support the reform has beenlaunched, albeit with some delay. The preparations
 for the civil servant retirement program are making progress: a consultant to provide technical
 assistance was recruitedto help the Government define a detailed strategy and actionplan for this
 program (this i s a tranche release condition for the civil service reform floating tranche of
 PRERC); a working group, formed by representatives from the Ministries o f Civil Service,
 Finance, Budget, and Interior, i s establishing the procedures for paying out the retirement
 packages. The efforts to allow the first group o f civil servants to retire have resumedinearnest to
 make up for some o f the delay caused by glitches in recruiting the consultant. Meanwhile, a
 survey of service delivery system for health, education, justice, and rural sectors, was conducted
 andthe draft report was issuedinOctober 2004.
 A-9. Decentralization i s an important responsibility placed on the transition government by
the peace accord. A draft law on territorial organization was prepared by the Government, ledby
the Ministry o f Interior, and has been submitted to Parliament. The World Bank supported a
parliamentary review o fthe draft-law inSeptember 2004.
 A-10. Judicial reform i s underway as indicated inthe LDP. A review o f the Congolesejudicial
system, planned for 2003, was completed in draft inFebruary 2004, with a broad EUdiagnostic
report presented inNovember 2004.
 A-11. Financial sector reform to modernizing and strengthening the legal and regulatory
framework i s being implemented with the support o f the IMF: new laws governing the Central
Bank, commercial banks, and savings institutions were enacted (2002); steps are taken to
strengthen the Central Bank as a financial institution as well as the monetary authority (ongoing);
commercial banks are being restructured beginning with the decision to liquidate 3 public
commercial banks in2003, followed by a review o f other banks.
 A-12. Private Sector Development has focused onjudicial reform, taxation, sxq'             3labor
regulations, administrative procedures affecting business, and reduction o f domestic debt. The
principal judicial reform has been the creation o f new investment and labor codes (2002),
publication o f a new mining code (2002) and its decrees o f application (2003), creation o f
commercial tribunals (2002), designation o f personnel to work at the commercial tribunals (2003
and ongoing), creation o f a national arbitration center (June 2003), establishment o f the
investment promotion agency (2002), and installment andoperationalization o f a Single Customs
Window at the Port o f Matadi (2003). Taxation has been improved by the publication o f new
customs tariffs (2002-2003), finalizing a new customs code (June 2004), suspension o f certain


                                                 10

  fiscal and parafiscal levies (2003), preparation o f an action plan to reform direct and indirect
  taxes (initial stages done; ongoing), andpreparation o f a global action plan for direct and indirect
  tax reform conceming firms (2004). The government has adopted some o f the main decrees to
  apply the new labor code during 2004. A comprehensive audit was undertaken in 2004 o f
 business-related administrative procedures. The government has also movedto reduce the weight
  o f domesticdebt on the business community: an action planwas prepared to resolve problems o f
  intemal debt based on the audit o f the government arrears to the private sector (first semester o f
  2004). The government is making progress, albeit slowly, on the next steps of certifying private
  sector's financial claims on the State, reconciling any discrepancies, negotiating the payment o f
  credits, and actually paying off the debt. An action plan to carry out these steps satisfactory to
 IDA, and adopted by government, is a condition for release of the "intemal debt" tranche of the
 PRERC.
   C.     PublicEnterpriseReform
   A-13. Public enterprise reform began in September 2001, followed by the creation o f a Public
 Enterprise Reform Commission (COPIREP) in 2002, and the nomination o f an executive
 secretary and two deputies in 2003. COPIREP delivered to the Government the accounting and
 operational audits o f certain enterprises (2003), formed sectoral working groups (2004), and
 conducting studies on process o f reforming public enterprises in key sectors (ongoing). The
 preparation o f action plans for reform o f public enterprises began in 2004 and is ongoing.
 During the current session (2004), Parliament will consider a new judicial and regulatory
 framework on public enterprises prepared bythe Government.

 D.       NaturalResourcesManagement
  A-14. The reforms indicated in the LDP continue to be implemented in forestry and mining. In
 the forestry sector, a new code was adopted in 2002, and its application decrees are being
prepared. Based on the new code, a moratorium on new logging contracts was imposed, some o f
 the existing contracts not in line with the new code were cancelled (2002), and the list o f
 cancelled contracts was published. In addition, the new area tax i s being collected and Ministry
 o f Environment i s about to cancel non-compliant contracts, whereas Ministryo f Finance intends
to start transferring a share o f forestry revenues to local governments in order to encourage
 sustainable management o f forests. An economic review o f the sector was completed in 2003,
and the proposed fiscal reforms were adopted in March 2004. The implementation o f these
reforms were delayed until ONATRA became fully compliant in November 2004. Also during
2004, a new law on nature conservation was submitted to Parliament.
  A-15. In the mining sector, a new code was also adopted (2003), publicized, and distributed
nationwide (2004). The financial management o f the miningcadastre was to be restructured by
March 2004 but i s only now beginningto be done. An arbitration commission on validation o f
mining titles was created as planned in 2003, but was not judged sufficiently independent. The
cleanup o f mining titles will begin once this commission becomes operational. The restructuring
o f Gecamines has proceeded with a diagnostic audit leading to a presentation o f options for
restructuring, and the final report was submitted in November 2003. A voluntary departures
program for excess workers was completed in January 2004. The examination o f existing
agreements and preparation o f statutes o f a new company, to have beencompleted by June 2004,
i s ongoing: the restructuring strategy has been validated at the government level; a management



                                                 11

 contract is being negotiated with an international firm and should be signed by end December
 2004. Implementationwill begininearly 2005.

 E.      Social sectors
  A-16. In health sector, the government made efforts to sign service contracts expeditiously
with execution agencies/NGOs              for  the Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Project (PMURR), in order to realize visible results in improving basic service
 delivery. The country health status report is expected to become available in the final form in
 December 2004. A sectoral strategy will be preparedby 2006, which will guide efforts to reform
 the regulatoryand budgetary framework o fthe sector (this i s a HIPC completionpoint trigger).
  A-17, The action plan for the "Education for All" program i s to be presented to the donor
 community in November 2004. The preliminary results of the country status report was
 disseminated broadly, and the final version was presentedin August 2004, as programmed. The
 first phase o f the rehabilitation o f education infrastructure i s on target. The Government believes
that the preparation o f a sectoral strategy will be completed by 2006, as targeted inthe LDP (this
i s a HIPC completionpoint trigger).
 A-18. A qualitative risk and vulnerability study was conducted in the area o f social
protection(2003). A global program for the sector was developed based on the completed
studies, andis now beingreviewed.


F.        Agriculture and Rural Development
 A-19, The target o f increasing output in agriculture has been addressed by a seed program
(begun in 2002 and in progress), rehabilitation of 850 hectare of irrigated land by 2005
(ongoing), and studies to improve aviculture, small livestock raising, fish farms, and local fishing
(launched in 2004 and in progress). Improvement in access to local markets through
rehabilitation o f 5000 km o f rural tracks started in 2004 and i s scheduled to last through June
2005. The first phase o f the program, supported under the PMURR, covers approximately 1200
km, and is scheduled to be completed in 2004. The introduction of an information system on
market prices for agricultural products i s underway. The Government i s developing a rural
strategy, which i s to be completed in 2006. The adoption o f this strategy is a HIPC completion
point trigger.
G.       Infrastructure (Roads, electricity, and water)
 A-20. On infrastructure, the LDP focuses on two main objectives: (i)rehabilitation and
maintenance o f existing infrastructure and (ii)      legal and regulatory environment reforms. An
international firm was selected in 2002 end in late 2005. Other transportation infrastructure
works are about to start with a slight delay. In electricity, a study on the state o f SNEL
installations was completed inJuly 2004, and urgent works on rehabilitating production capacity
at 600 megawatts are to be conducted in 2005-2007. In water, works have started, and will
continue through 2006.
 A-21. Since 2003, new legal and regulatory frameworks for the petroleum, energy, andwater
sectors are beingprepared. The Ministry o f Energy began this work before COPIREP started to
supervise the activity, and the two institutions have now taken the work up together.to manage



                                                    12

the infrastructure components o f the PMURR, and technical design studies were launched in
2003. Road works are underway since 2004 and scheduled to last through 2006, following the
selection and mobilization o f contractors through international competitive bidding. In urban
infrastructure, the execution o f two important works (Kasa-Vubu urban rehabilitation and
Selembao erosion works) began in2004 and are expected to




                                              13

