                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                           Report No: 36268

                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (IDA-38620)

                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION

                                 TO THE

                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO

           FOR A POST-REUNIFICATION ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT




                               June 28, 2006




POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT (AFTP3)
AFRICA REGION

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 2, 2006)

                            Currency Unit = Francs Congolais
                                CDF 100 = US$ 0.233
                                    US$ 1 = CDF 430

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 to December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AU          African Union
BCDC        Banque Commerciale du Congo
CDPI        Commission de la Dette Publique Intérieure
CG          Consultative Group
CGF         Congolese Franc
DDR         Demobilization, Disarmament and Reinsertion
DRC         Democratic Republic of Congo
EC          European Commission
EDF         European Development Fund
EMRRP       Emergency Multi-Sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
ERC         Economic Recovery Credit
FEC         Fédération des Entrepreneurs du Congo
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP      Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MDRP        Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
MIGA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MONUC                Mission d'Observation des Nations Unies au Congo
OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OGEDEP               Office de Gestion de la Dette Publique
PEG         Government Economic Program
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PREM        Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PRERC       Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit
PRGF        Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSDCP       Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project
REGIDESO    Régie des Distributions d'Eau de la République Démocratique du Congo
SDR         Special Drawing Right
SNEL        Société Nationale D'Électricité
TSS         Transitional Support Strategy


                          Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                       Country Director:       Pedro Alba
                         Sector Manager:       Yvonne M. Tsikata
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Emilie A. Mushobekwa

                         DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
                        Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation report                                            36
Annex 9. IBRD Map No. 34816                                                      58

Project ID: P082443                                                  Project Name: POST-REUNIFICATION ECONOMIC
                                                                     RECOVERY CREDIT
Team Leader: Emilie A. Mushobekwa                                    TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: POST-REUNIFICATION ECONOMIC                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-38620
                            RECOVERY CREDIT
   Country/Department: CONGO, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Banking (20%); General industry and trade sector
                            (20%); Other social services (10%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (P); Debt management and fiscal sustainability (P); Regulation and competition
                            policy (P); Standards and financial reporting (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/14/2003                                     Effective: 03/31/2004                05/13/2004
     Appraisal: 01/09/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 02/26/2004                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Yvonne M. Tsikata                              Cadman Atta Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Emilie A. Mushobekwa                           Eric R. Nelson
ICR Primary Author:             Paul Geli


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1.       The main objective of the Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit (PRERC) was to
assist the Government with foreign exchange support in the post-reunification context, and to support and
facilitate the continued implementation of country-wide economic reforms and other urgent reforms in
critical areas. Those urgent reforms included: (i) supporting institutional and civil service reforms, and in
particular the retirement of staff having reached retirement age; (ii) ensuring regular Government payments
to key public suppliers, in particular the water and electricity utilities; and (iii) tackling the issue of internal
debt, which hampers private sector revival, by completing the process of debt reduction and restructuring
begun under the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), in terms of both settling arrears and preventing the
accumulation of new arrears.

3.1.2.       The Government's medium-term development objectives were stated in its Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) and corresponding policy matrix (Annex 1). Its economic program for
2003-2005 covered: (i) peace and governance (including demobilization and reintegration, anticorruption,
public expenditure management and public administration reform, decentralization and judicial sector
reform); (ii) financial sector; (iii) private sector development; (iv) reform of public enterprises; (v) natural
resources; (vi) social sectors (preparation of sector strategies and improving service delivery); (vii)
agriculture and the rural sector development; and (viii) infrastructure rehabilitation. Through this program,
the Government also expected to be well advanced towards the satisfaction of HIPC Completion Point
triggers at the end of 2005.

3.1.3.       The objective of the Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit (PRERC) was clear and
relevant to the country's economic and social development in a post-reunification period. The credit was
consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) discussed by the Board on July 31, 2001,
and was an integral part of a new TSS discussed by the Board concurrently with this credit on February
26, 2004. It was intended to assist the Democratic Republic of Congo in its economic and social recovery,
in the context of the Government's 2004-2005 Reform, Growth, and Poverty Reduction Programs. The
credit was expected to contribute to economic recovery and growth by providing foreign exchange
resources for imports of essential commodities and financial resources to the Government budget to finance
priority public expenditures and by supporting urgent reforms in critical areas.

3.1.4.       The program was complex because of the number of components and institutions involved.
The program had to take into account the specific requirements of other donors and agencies, particularly
the International Monetary Fund (IMF) with which the Bank team collaborated very closely. This
complexity was also demanding on the Government. The program entailed several risks, which were
highlighted in the program document. However, it was felt that the window of opportunity provided by the
re-unification, the need to support the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy, and the proposed mitigating
actions to reduce the identified risks responded to the country's circumstances and justified the operation.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1.       The Credit, in an amount of US$200 million equivalent, was to be disbursed in four tranches,
as follows:

       (i)   the first tranche, in an amount of US$85 million, to be made available at effectiveness (in view


                                                       - 2 -

              of the Government's satisfactory performance at the time, there was no condition for
              effectiveness);
       (ii)   a floating tranche of US$47.5 million for an end-of-service program to accompany the
              Government's retirement program for delayed retirees in support of civil service reform;
       (iii)  a floating tranche of US$42.5 million upon arrangements for negotiated repayment of the
              Government's internal debt to private creditors; and
       (iv)   a floating tranche of US$25 million for supporting the reform of utilities billing and payment,
              in particular for water and electricity.

3.3.2.      The three floating tranches were mutually independent and could be released in any order when
related triggers were satisfied in respective program areas. Release of each tranche was to take place
against the background of general maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.

Civil Service Retirement Tranche

3.3.3.      The civil service retirement tranche of US$47.5 million was intended to assist the Government in
financing the retirement package for workers who had reached retirement age. For this tranche to be
disbursed, a strategy and implementation plan had to be adopted by the Council of Ministers setting forth,
inter alia: (i) the necessary legal and administrative steps to be followed to carry out the transition of civil
servants from active duty into retirement after having fulfilled mandatory retirement criteria on the basis of
current legislation; (ii) a program including proposed target groups, modality of payment, and the
cut-off-date for being eligible for the retirement package; (iii) a transparent mechanism for identification of
retirees, the disbursement procedures, and the control of funds to be disbursed; and (iv) the publication of
regulations, administrative acts, and other information relevant to beneficiaries, such as the calendar of
payments and calculation method used.

Internal Debt Tranche

3.3.4.      The internal debt tranche of US$42.5 million was designed to help the Government partially
finance the arrears clearance for commercial internal debt, excluding that to public enterprises and
agencies. Release of this tranche was dependent on:

     (i)    validation of the stock of debt pursuant to procedures satisfactory to IDA;

     (ii)   publication in the Official Gazette and the press and media of wide circulation in the national
            territory of a cut-off date after which domestic creditors are precluded from (a) submitting
            further claims to be included in the stock of debt, or (b) completing or modifying already
            submitted claims to be included in the stock of debt;

     (iii) negotiations and an agreement, binding under the laws of the DRC, having been concluded
            between the Government and its creditors representing at least 75 percent of the stock of debt,
            pertaining to a common discount factor, or discount factors as the case may be, satisfactory to
            the IDA, applicable to the stock of debt; and

     (iv) appointment of a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA, following the application of a transparent
            competitive selection process satisfactory to IDA, called upon to effect payments to creditors.




                                                      - 3 -

Public Utilities (Centralized Payments) Tranche

3.3.5.      The Public Utilities tranche of US$25 million was designed to assist the government in making
timely regular flat-rate payments of current bills to the water (REGIDESO) and the power (SNEL)
companies for 2004. Release would be conditional upon:

      (i)   adoption by the Government of an action plan, including an implementation schedule, in form
            and substance acceptable to IDA, to control its utility use and expenditures; and

      (ii) adoption by both REGIDESO and SNEL of action plans, including implementation schedules, in
            form and substance acceptable to IDA, to improve the reliability, transparency and
            accountability of their billing procedures to public administration; the Government's protocol
            with these companies will specify expenditure plans for the funds that would be transferred to
            them.

3.3.6.      The components were closely related to the objective of the credit. They built on some of the
lessons learned during the successful implementation of an earlier Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), in
particular: (i) the Gécamines voluntary departures program and tranche; and (ii) emergency operations
programs financed with the counterpart funds of a US$42 million tranche. However, while civil service
retirement and internal debt appear to have been relevant issues to be addressed in view of the objective of
the credit, the reason for choosing also the payments of public utilities as a priority issue to be tackled is
not obvious. Moreover, the components were quite ambitious considering the administrative and financial
management capacity of Government entities, the operational problems of public utilities and financial
institutions, and the complexity of the public administration, in particular for the management of personnel
and the payroll process. The ambitious design did not take into account one of the preliminary lessons of
the previous ERC about the need to design modest programs with well-focused reforms in post-conflict
situations.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1.      The credit's quality at entry was not rated by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). At the time
of this ICR, overall, the quality at entry can be rated as "moderately unsatisfactory".

3.5.2.      The Bank's Regional Operations Committee (ROC) that considered the PRERC "congratulated
the Bank team for a good strategy and thinking underlying the operation. "They noted that the operation
would take place" against a background of satisfactory implementation of the Bretton Woods Institutions ­
supported economic programs and continued commitment to reform demonstrated by the Government of
national unity." The credit was intended to provide adjustment assistance and transitional budget support as
the country, emerging from conflict, was re-establishing government services across formerly occupied
territories, while reunification would permit rebuilding the economic and fiscal base. The credit
complemented IDA-financed investment activities supporting competitiveness and private sector growth
and the new Transitional Support Strategy discussed by the Board concurrently with this credit on
February 26, 2004. The risks ­ and there were many ­ were clearly identified in the concept paper, which
suggested a number of mitigation measures. The program and credit were prepared in a very short time
(about three months). However, the shortcomings of such a fast-track approach cannot be ignored. More
thought could have been given to the inherent tension between a quick-disbursing instrument partially



                                                      - 4 -

supporting long term reforms. The team attempted to deal with it by devising measures to earmark funds
unofficially. These measures had the unfortunate consequences of decreasing the clarity of what could and
could not be accomplished through the credit. In addition, the team's assessment of the Government's
technical capacity and the political environment was not quite accurate. For example, the Government was
often unable to provide the modest operational funds to implement the reforms supported by the credit, not
because the funds were not available but because the Government was not organized enough to make
necessary provisions in the State budget, and because it lacked the capacity or the willingness to rectify this
situation. The team could have foreseen it, and planned an accompanying technical assistance credit, made
tranche releases conditional on actions taken rather than action plan adopted, or scaled down the scope of
the reform objectives.

3.5.3.     The civil service retirement tranche was based on a good diagnosis of the problems and issues in
the DRC civil service. There was general agreement that the civil service faced serious difficulties in
managing its personnel and its payroll process. The civil service reform program was receiving strong
support from multiple donors, in particular from Belgian Cooperation, the European Commission, the
AfDB and South Africa for the civil servants census, the UNDP for the statutory framework overhaul, and
from the French Cooperation for the audit of the payroll system. The objective of this tranche, to support a
civil service retirement program which was expected to take two to three years, was mismatched with the
quick-disbursing instrument. In addition, due to the complexities inherent to civil service reforms and
because many donors were involved in various aspects of the reforms, any delays or problems encountered
in one part of the program caused ripple effects on other parts. Not all of these delays and problems were
foreseeable at entry, but the tranche could have been better designed. For example, more could have been
done to prepare the component so that the payments to retirees could take place once the money was made
available. Alternatively the scope of the component could have been limited. In addition, the difficulties of
implementing that component were underestimated: lack of (modest) operating funds for the technical team;
the modality of payments to the retirees in view of the lack of banking facilities in the country. On balance,
the quality at entry of that component can be rated as "moderately unsatisfactory".

3.5.4.     The quality at entry of the public utilities (centralized payments) tranche can be rated as
"unsatisfactory." It is not clear why this particular component, to be carried out by three different
institutions (the Ministry of Budget, REGIDESO and SNEL), was a priority. It also did not really address
the public utilities billing and payments problems for the very simple reason that those are very complex,
technical issues that can only be tackled at the level of the utility companies, and not as a component of a
balance of payments and budget support credit. Even for achieving the more modest objective of not
accumulating new arrears vis a vis the two utilities companies, the Government did not allocate funds to
carry out the necessary reforms. The team attempted to address this problem by designing the tranche
release conditions in such a way that the funds could be disbursed relatively quickly and without the
Government incurring very much costs. The idea was that the disbursed funds would then be used to carry
out the reforms. A better approach would have been to plan an accompanying technical assistance credit.
Alternatively, the credit could have been synchronized with the Government's budget cycle so that adequate
allocation is made in the State budget, and actions, rather than adoption of action plans could be the
tranche release conditions. Such approaches would also have helped the Government to carry out the
reforms to achieve the intended results. The Government's technical capacity to do so with minimum
assistance was overestimated by the team.




                                                    - 5 -

3.5.5.    The internal debt tranche was more straightforward, both at the conceptual stage and during
implementation. Helping the Government to try to settle the internal debt arrears was essential, since it was
a large part of remaining impediment after the Paris Club and HIPC. The quality at entry of that
component can be rated as "satisfactory."


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1.    Overall, the outcome/achievement of the credit's objective was moderately unsatisfactory, but
since the ICR format does not give this rating option, the outcome has been rated as "unsatisfactory". The
reason for the "unsatisfactory" rating is that objectives were not achieved for all components. In addition,
performance on some of the topics included in the policy matrix was mixed: there were delays in certain
areas (such as the adoption and completion of the PRSP). The conditions of tranche releases were met, but
the conditions were mostly the preparation and adoption of action plans and not the actions themselves ­
for example, there is a plan for the retirement of civil servants but, as of the writing of this ICR, no
payments have been made. On the other hand, the credit provided badly needed balance of payments
support to the Government, which was critical to maintaining macroeconomic stability.

4.1.2.    The credit, encompassing several key policy actions, provided critical financing necessary to
advance structural reforms and governance/transparency measures of the Government's program, as
outlined in the policy matrix (Annex 1). The public utilities (centralized payments) tranche was released in
November 2004 and the retirement and internal debt tranches were released in August 2005, without the
need for a waiver. In addition to the specific conditions for each release being met, the two general
conditions were also met at the time, namely the Bank was satisfied with the progress in the carrying out of
the program and the macroeconomic policy framework was satisfactory. For the early part of the program,
economic performance was satisfactory and Government's commitment was firm. Overall performance
under the Government's economic program (programme économique du gouvernementor PEG), as
described in the Letter of Development Policy (January 21, 2004), was satisfactory until end-2004. The
economy grew at 6 percent in 2003 and 7 percent in 2004, reversing years of decline until 2001.
Hyperinflation was broken, and inflation was at less than 5 percent in 2003 and until the third quarter of
2004. Towards the end of 2004, macroeconomic performance weakened when money-financed emergency
spending for security purposes caused rapid depreciation of the currency and a corresponding rise in
inflation. However, the Government took strict measures to counter the slippage in early 2005, and
succeeded in restoring stability of the currency and domestic prices. The credit certainly helped the
Government to maintain macroeconomic stability during 2004 and most of 2005.

4.1.3.    In 2005, the macroeconomic outcomes were mixed. Real GDP growth remained robust at 6.5
percent due to good performance in mining, public works, telecommunication and wholesale business. On
the other hand, macroeconomic performance started to weaken again in the second half of 2005 due largely
to a slackening in the budgetary discipline. The overall consolidated fiscal deficit reached 8 percent of
GDP, much higher than the 2 percent programmed under IMF's PRGF. The spending overrun since
September 2005 was offset somewhat by higher than expected revenues, due in part to high oil prices, and
to improvements in tax administration. The overall balance of payments also deteriorated: partly reflecting
this deterioration, and also because the government resorted to using reserve currency for domestic
spending in an effort to control the expansion of domestic money base, international reserves decreased to
the equivalent of 2.6 weeks of non-aid related imports against a target of 7 weeks in the program. The
PRGF agreement, concluded in 2002 in support of the Government's Economic Program (PEG), expired in
March 2006 without completing the 6th and last review.           The IMF is preparing to propose to its



                                                     - 6 -

management a Staff Monitored Program to run through December 2006, until the new and duly elected
government takes office and is able to negotiate a new PRGF. Overall, the pace of implementation of
reforms has slowed down, mostly due to deteriorating coordination between different ministries and to a
lack of interest in carrying out reforms in a pre-election period. The updated policy matrix in Annex 1
provides information on the implementation of the program; it shows that there have been substantial
delays in a number of areas. As an example, the completion and adoption of the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) originally scheduled for the last quarter of 2005 has not yet taken place, and is now
scheduled for the second quarter of 2006; but, there is no guarantee that this will indeed happen. On HIPC,
there has been some progress in meeting the Completion Point conditions at the end of 2005. However, the
macroeconomic stability achieved a few years ago has been threatened, in particular by the deterioration of
budget management.

                                Table 1: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                           2001-2 Average    2003       2004    2005
 Real GDP Growth (Annual )                                       0.7           5.7      6.8       6.5
 Consumer Prices, End-of-Period ()                              75.4           4.4      9.2      21.3
 Overall Consolidated Fiscal Balance (Cash Basis, incl.         -1.2          -2.1      -1.9     -8.0
 Grants) ( of GDP)
 Current Account Balance, incl. Transfers ( of GDP)             -3.8          -1.5      -5.5     -4.9
 Gross Official Reserves - (in US$ million)                     49.5          97.8     236.2    131.2
            - (in Weeks of Non-Aid Imports)                      1.8           2.4      5.2       2.6
 Source: IMF.


4.1.4. The rating of "moderately unsatisfactory" is justified by the unfinished agenda that remains after
the full disbursement of the credit.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Public Utilities (Centralized Payments) Tranche

4.2.1.     The centralized payment tranche of the PRERC of US$25 million was disbursed in November
2004 (about seven and a half months earlier than planned) upon adoption by the Government of an action
plan to control its utility use and expenditures, and adoption by REGIDESO (water company) and SNEL
(electricity company) of action plans to improve the reliability, transparency, and accountability of their
billing procedures.

4.2.2.     In the Government's action plan, the measures to control utility use included redefining the
regulatory framework, holding line ministries and local governments accountable for their utility use, and
revising the billing procedures. The SNEL and REGIDESO action plans specified concrete steps to achieve
the stated goals. The SNEL action plan calls for an audit of Government designated distribution posts,
establishing the identity of the billable public sector client base, procuring and installing new meters as
necessary, and introducing a validated computerized monthly billing system. The REGIDESO action plan
involves educating institutional clients in the purpose and modality of the revised system, identifying
distribution points and procuring/installing meters at key points, together with improving the water
distribution system between these points and the final user (to eliminate un-metered access), and monitoring
and evaluation of progress and results.

4.2.3.     As envisaged in the action plans, the Government and the two companies have been working to



                                                     - 7 -

finalize the list of entities entitled to state-financed water and electricity services. The two companies have
begun to install meters so that billing can be based on actual consumption in the future. However, there are
important delays in meter installation because of delays in meter delivery; also, the two companies do not
have enough funds to purchase meters. The actions already taken by the Government include redefining the
regulatory framework and agreeing on the protocols with SNEL and REGIDESO to improve the billing
procedure to ensure timely payments of the utility bills. Since January 2005, Government has made on a
regular basis flat-rate payments into trust accounts established by SNEL and REGIDESO. The delay in the
installation of meters is unfortunate since the flat rates are likely to be far below the amounts due based on
actual consumption.

4.2.4.     Implementation of the component has contributed to the Government not accumulating new
arrears vis-à-vis the two utilities companies. It gave the Government a breathing space to tackle the billing
and payment problems of public utilities. However, the Government needs to prepare itself for more
complicated transactions of paying actual consumption-based bills, and does not appear to be making much
headway.

Civil Service Retirement Tranche

4.2.5.     The civil service retirement program was an important part of public administration reform,
supported by international development partners. The civil service retirement tranche of US$47.5 million
was disbursed in August 2005 when the Government submitted to the Bank a document adopted by the
Council of Ministers which describes the strategy for identifying the eligible civil servants and paying them
the indemnities (retirement package). The sequencing of actions with a calendar and responsible parties is
clearly laid out in this document. The calculation method to determine the amount of indemnities for each
person (based on existing laws) is spelled out in the strategy, and the salary scales by occupation and grade
level are indicated in the annex to the strategy. The cut-off date is unequivocally stated as those who
already left the service before 2003 for the first group of retirees, and those who achieved the retirement
age by December 31, 2004, for the second group. The first group of retirees will be identified using the
retirement documents issued at the time of recruitment. The second group of retirees will be identified by
the civil servants census. Adequate provisions are made for problem cases, such as the death of the
beneficiary, and loss of recruitment documents due to the war or any other reasons. The retirement package
will be paid out using a non-endorsable check issued by the Central Bank, payable at designated financial
institutions. Provisions for auditing the operation are made. All the relevant information will be published
in the official journal, and will also be publicized using radio, local newspapers, and announcements.

4.2.6.     The first group of retirees comprises about 6,000 persons, and the second group 90,000 persons
or more, depending on the results of the census which is still underway. The indemnities to be paid to the
first group are estimated at about US$2.7 million. Payments to the first group of retirees have been delayed
by problems with the selection of the bank that would pay the retirees (it must be an institution that has
branches everywhere and which is in good standing). Payments to the first group of retirees are expected to
be made in the second quarter of 2006. Preparations for the payments to the second group have already
begun. The US$47.5 million disbursed in August 2005 was not formally earmarked, but is in the State
budget as a special program, and the funds have been deposited at the Central Bank.

Internal Debt Tranche

4.2.7.     The internal debt tranche of US$42.5 million was disbursed in August 2005 when the
government had met the release conditions. Independent audits of internal debt to private sector were
conducted by Pricewaterhouse Coopers, whose service was engaged through a competitive bidding process.



                                                        - 8 -

The total stock of commercial debt as of December 31, 2001, was determined to be US$472,135,808. The
exhaustive list of creditors and debts was published in the Official Gazette, in the press and media of wide
circulation on June 28, 2004. The Government reached an agreement on the terms of payment and discount
rates of the internal debt arrears with private domestic creditors representing approximately 77 percent of
the stock of debt at an average discount factor of 75 percent in NPV terms. The resulting settlement
specifies payment of the internal debt arrears of US$96.8 million over a period of three years: US$42.6
million in 2005 (paid with the IDA credit), US$29.5 million in 2006 and US$24.7 million in 2007.
Government confirmed explicitly his intention to apply the same discount factors to the remaining creditors
representing the balance of 23 percent of the stock of debt. Finally, payments will be made through Banque
Commerciale du Congo (BCDC), a Congolese Bank, selected though a competitive bidding process.

4.2.8.     The process leading to the negotiation and agreements on internal debt arrears is consistent with
similar processes in and outside of Africa. The CDPI (Commission de la Dette Publique Intérieure) was
established as an inter-ministerial committee where all factions of the Transition Government are
represented.   Several members of the CDPI, at the ministerial level, are creditors, which is not an
uncommon situation in a post conflict country. However, the CDPI was not directly involved in the
negotiation process, which was fully delegated to an independent negotiator selected through a competitive
process, Sterling Merchant Bank. It is to be noted that while the CDPI provided Sterling Merchant Bank
with several indications as to what the outcome of the negotiation should be, the negotiation process
remained independent. The outcome of the negotiations, which was also made public, did not lead to any
protest from the private sector or third parties. However, the agreement on the minimum discount rates was
not easy to reach.

4.2.9.     The discount factors negotiated are consistent with risk premia factored in by private sector
operators in post conflict countries like DRC, while also leading to steep debt reductions to the detriment of
the same private sector operators. Although the discount factors (average of 75 percent in NPV terms) are
not inconsistent with other similar operations in African countries, one could argue that they were not high
enough under the specific circumstances of the DRC and that they were not the best deals that could have
been negotiated. In any event, the agreed settlement is much higher than the tranche amount, which was
calculated based on the estimates of the stock of debt and the HIPC discount rates; this outcome results in
the commitment of the Government to repay and extinguish all internal debt arrears over a period of three
years. The first year of payment was covered by the release of the internal debt tranche. The payments in
2006 and 2007 would have to be financed by the Government under tight budget constraints: the repayment
obligations each year are estimated to represent roughly 3 percent of Government's revenues, which may be
difficult to manage. The amount to be paid in 2006 is included in the 2006 state budget, which, however,
has a sizable financing gap of approximately US$120 million or 6 percent of total budget.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:




                                                     - 9 -

4.5.1.    The institutional development impact of the PRERC was modest. The internal debt and the
public utilities (centralized payments) tranches had no noticeable impact, whereas the civil service
retirement tranche had some institutional development impact on three Ministries: the Ministry of Public
Service, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Budget. These ministries (in particular the Ministry of
Public Service) were strengthened, enabling them to identify a technically and financially viable retirement
strategy and to start implementing a retirement program for civil servants. During the period, however, the
Ministries of Finance and Budget were separated, which added transaction costs and complicated
coordination.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1.    The fact that the Government did not control the whole country and thus did not have
country-wide access does not seem to have affected significantly the implementation of the program. On the
other hand, the Government did not have the technical and financial resources that were needed to properly
implement the reform programs. There were serious logistical problems, such as lack of office space and
equipment. In addition, poorly paid civil servants had little incentive to do a good job. Human capacity in
Ministries and Government Agencies was generally low. Unfortunately, the assistance provided by Donors,
including the World Bank, for capacity building and to overcome the logistical problems was limited.
During the pre-election period, there was waning political will in carrying out complex and time-consuming
reforms.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1.    On the positive side, the reconciliation Government was committed to ensuring the success of the
program, particularly at the beginning. That commitment lessened later on, during the pre-election period.
Most of the work was done by a relatively small group of high-level and competent people. There were
problems of coordination and lack of communication between Ministries, and some of them were weaker
than others.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1.    The whole credit was disbursed in about 15 months, with a slight two-month delay compared to
the original plan (Annex 2 contains the actual versus planned dates for the release of each tranche).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:




                                                     - 10 -

6.1.1.    Strictly speaking, the question of sustainability does not apply to an operation like the PRERC
that involved a number of discrete, one-step measures that underpin the release of tranches. However, the
question of sustainability can be approached from a different angle: did those transition operations actually
paved the way for the next steps? For the three components/tranches, the answers to that question are not
obvious because of the recent slow down in the pace of reforms due in part to the pre-election context and
because of the usual uncertainties on future developments.

6.1.2.    From the point of view of the next step, at the time of writing of the ICR (second quarter of
2006), the sustainability of the PRERC can be rated "unlikely" for the following reasons:

          -       Internal debt: the logical next step would be that there are no more arrears. There is no
                  guarantee that this will be the case.

          -       Public utilities (centralized payments): the logical next steps would be the setting up of a
                  reliable and transparent billing process (new meters, records of users, etc.) and the
                  government starting to pay its actual consumption on a regular basis; some payments are
                  being made but they are very small, and well below the amounts that should be due based
                  on actual consumption.

          -       Civil service retirement: the logical next steps would be the full implementation of the
                  retirement program which would provide room to promote younger civil servants and
                  facilitate the reorganization of the public administration; that outcome is still uncertain
                  considering that the cohorts of older and more senior civil servants have not yet retired.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1.    The overall performance of the Bank was "moderately unsatisfactory", but since the ICR format
does not give this rating option, the outcome has been rated as "unsatisfactory".

7.1.2.    The Bank's involvement was justified by the need to: (i) support policies that continue to stabilize
and revive the economy while introducing effective and transparent governance across a reunified country
with substantially greater demands on its resources; (ii) improve the efficiency and integrity of the civil
service; and (iii) encourage private sector investment and improvements in the productive capacity of the
economy. The program financed by the credit supported the deepening of structural reforms, reunification
of administrations, and the continued reform of the public sector to foster efficiency and enhance
productive capacities. This operation was also part of a coordinated effort by partners and international
financial institutions to help rehabilitate the country's social services. The credit came when the country
was in a serious need of budget support, and while few donors were willing to provide such assistance.

7.1.3.    The policy reform framework drew on the ongoing policy dialogue with the Government in
various sectors, and on the preparatory work carried out in conjunction with the IMF's Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility. The Bank team had good working relationships with other donors. The Country
Director, the task team leader and the task team were highly committed to the objectives of the credit.
Although the program dealt with many sectors and was, therefore, complex, the Bank managed to assign to
the task staff with the right kind of expertise. The Bank staff spared no time and effort to prepare in a


                                                      - 11 -

relatively short period such a complex operation. There were, however, design issues, in terms of the
relevance of the problems to be tackled and in terms of implementation capacity of the Government. The
components could have been more thoroughly and completely prepared to ensure a speedy and full
implementation.

7.1.4.     The Bank could have done a better job in the following areas. The emphasis of the whole
operation was more on process than concrete results. In retrospect, and with the wisdom of hindsight, the
conditions for the release of tranches could have been concrete actions (for example, civil servants actually
retired and paid) rather than simply the adoption of strategies and plans. Also, the Bank could have
anticipated some of the practical difficulties (such as making payments to retirees) that surfaced during
implementation. Finally, arrangements could have been made, through the credit or through a separate
technical assistance operation, to ensure that the concerned ministries and agencies had the necessary
resources and logistics to carry out their work.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1.     The Bank performance in supervision is satisfactory. The credit was properly supervised.
Problems were identified and there was follow-up. The slow down in the pace of reforms in recent months
was due mostly to the pre-election environment, so that a more intensive supervision may not have made
much of a difference. Aide-Mémoires were filed after each mission. Only one ISR was filed but
comprehensive memoranda were sent to the Board of the Bank in connection with the releases of the
floating tranches. There was good exchange of information with the concerned ministries and agencies.
Finally, the fact that the Bank had a presence in Kinshasa helped greatly. In practice, the Bank had a
leadership role during the whole program cycle and, in many cases, was instrumental in getting things done.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1.     The Bank's overall performance was "moderately unsatisfactory". The credit was consistent with
the Government's development strategy and the TSS. It also came at a critical juncture in the country's
post-conflict stabilization efforts. However, there were some design flaws that explain the unfinished
agenda that remains after the full disbursement of the credit. The credit was properly supervised by the
Bank.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1.     The Borrower performance for the preparation of the credit was satisfactory. The Government
was committed to reunification and recovery as key conditions for the overall success of peace and
reconciliation. On the economic side, the Government had a three-track agenda: (i) keeping the economic
reform program on track, with a particular attention to absorbing the monetary and fiscal shocks expected
from the process of economic and social reunification; (ii) restoring institutional unity while redefining the
respective roles, responsibilities, and resources of the various levels of Government; and (iii) providing
rapid financial support in the eastern and northern parts of the country with a view to generating peace
dividends and stabilizing the social situation, while laying the ground for growth recovery.

7.4.2.     The Bank may have played a leading role in the preparation of the reform program, but the
Government was very responsive. It had successfully sustained over a period of more than two and a half
years a set of measures aimed at enhancing sound macroeconomic policies, stabilizing the economy, and
preparing for growth. The Government's track record of sound economic policies and performance had
been judged satisfactory by two PRGF reviews and various IMF missions, and as evidenced by



                                                     - 12 -

implementation of IDA-supported programs. Exchange rates and prices had been liberalized. New
investment, labor, mining and forestry codes had been approved. A law creating commercial courts had
been published. Public enterprises had been audited and many of the general managers replaced.
Commitment at the highest level of the country's leadership and the Government, as well as support from
the civil society had been demonstrated and reaffirmed on several occasions. Since 2002 the Government
had been implementing an I-PRSP based on wide consultations with civil society and community groups,
and had been developing its full PRSP through a representative and participatory process.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1.      The Borrower performance during implementation is rated "unsatisfactory".

7.5.2.      The Government didn't deliver on most of the main components of the credit. On the public
utilities tranche, the Government is not yet able to control its utility use and related expenditures since bills
for water and electricity are still paid on a flat rate basis. On the side of water and electricity companies,
billing procedures are still not reliable and transparent, and new meters in public areas and building are not
installed as expected. On the civil service retirement tranche, none of the retirees identified in the first group
have been paid their indemnities more than a year after the adoption of the related strategy. Also, the
Government decision to drop Belgian Cooperation and rely on South African Cooperation for the financing
of the census contributed to delays in the implementation of that component. On the overall reform
program, there are also delays in completing some important parts of the overall reform program, such as
the finalization of the full PRSP. Government's performance has been constrained by the lack of resources
and logistical difficulties, but coordination and communication problems, which were within Government
control, also played a role. The macroeconomic framework slippage of 2005/06 was another factor. On the
positive side, the Government managed to meet the conditions of tranche release without the need for any
waivers. The fiduciary environment has been improving, and the Government has been making progress in
terms of budget execution and monitoring. However, on balance, the Government implementation
performance is rated "unsatisfactory".

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1.      The overall performance of the Borrower was "moderately unsatisfactory", but since the ICR
format does not give this rating option, the outcome has been rated as "unsatisfactory".

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.        A number of lessons relate to the time required to implement reform programs and the need for
continuity of support by donors:


            ·   When a reform program supported by a quick-disbursing operation has a relatively long
                implementation phase, as is the case of the civil service retirement program, a multi-year
                operation with enough flexibility to account for evolution on the ground and for unforeseen
                technical difficulties is likely to be more suitable.

            ·   Using adoption of an action plan as the tranche release condition was a way to disburse the
                funds quickly while tackling a large problem: it has not worked well in the context of limited
                technical capacity and difficult political environment. Tranche releases should be linked to
                concrete actions, or better yet, results on the ground.


                                                       - 13 -

           ·   In quick-disbursing operation, it is important to limit the scope of the immediate objectives
               so that they can reasonably be achieved during the relevant time-frame. These immediate
               objectives should be elements contributing towards a medium term goal.


8.2.     Other lessons deal with the resources that both Government and the Bank need to properly prepare
and implement or supervise reform programs:

           ·   It was not possible to make payment of retirees a tranche release condition because the
               Government needed the tranche to pay the retirees. The Government does not have access to
               temporary credit. The Government struggled to come up with funds even for smaller steps
               such as hiring a consultant to assist in writing the action plan. Arrangements must be made
               to ensure that the technical and financial resources that the Government needs to implement
               the program properly (including meeting the conditions of tranche releases) are readily
               available, either through the credit itself or through an accompanying technical assistance
               credit.

           ·   Alternatively, the operation should be synchronized with the Government's budget cycle, so
               that adequate allocations could be made in the State budget to carry out the reform
               programs. It is more difficult to manage but more desirable in the long run.

           ·   Also, comprehensive programs of capacity building for Ministries and Government Agencies
               are important to improve implementation; donors should be prepared to provide assistance
               for this purpose.

           ·   In the context of post-conflict fragile states, a case could be made for a hybrid lending
               instrument where funds provided by the Bank would be earmarked for specific purposes but
               the involvement of the Bank would not be as extensive as in investment projects. Such an
               instrument could be used as a temporary tool while fragile states make the transition into a
               stable country.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.     The Government rated the overall performance of the credit as satisfactory, citing the progress
made in the areas in the Government's economic program that were supported by the credit. The
Government rated its own performance during the preparation and the implementation of the credit as
satisfactory although admitting to experiencing delays in the implementation period. However, the
Government noted that in the future, the assessment of necessary resources to implement reforms is made
during the preparation stage of the credit so that proper provisions could be made in the State budget on
time. The Government also rated Bank's performance satisfactory both in terms of the quality of the
support and supervision.

9.2.     Borrower's written comments are attached to the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.




                                                     - 14 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

A. Poverty
      Area of
    Intervention                       Activities                 Due Date                     Comments
 I-PRSP               Preparation of I-PRSP                  Mid-2002          Completed.
 Preparation of Final Elaboration and adoption of action planMid-June 2003     Completed.
 PRSP                 and chronogram
                      Organization of workshop launching     By end November Held during 8-10 December 2003.
                      an Information, Education,             2003
                      Communication campaign
 Consultations        Hold participatory consultations       January ­ May     Completed. Consultations took place
                                                             2004              between October 2004 and February
                                                                               2005.
                      Editing and delivery of reports        June ­ July 2004  Completed in April 2005.
 Thematic Groups      Contributions of thematic groups and   By end October    Completed. Draft of sectoral and
                      sector ministries                      2004              thematic strategies shared with
                                                                               development partners by June 2005.
 Poverty Survey       Pilot test of national poverty survey  November ­        Completed April 2003.
                                                             December 2002
                      Opinion polls on the way poverty is    1st quarter of    Completed. Polls were carried out in
                      perceived by the Congolese population. 2004              March 2005 on the same sites as the
                                                                               community consultations. The draft of
                                                                               the report and of the poverty profile is
                                                                               available since October 2005.
                      Launch of poverty survey               January 2004      Done, with some delays for the
                                                                               provinces (March 2005).
                      Completion of survey                   December 2004     The 1-2-3 survey has been completed
                                                                               for the city of Kinshasa, with the
                                                                               assistance of French Cooperation;
                                                                               results are available. For the Provinces,
                                                                               results of phase 1 (employment) and
                                                                               phase 2 (household consumption) are
                                                                               being integrated into the final PRSP.
                                                                               For phase 2 (informal sector), results
                                                                               will be taken into account at a later
                                                                               date, in connection with a revision of
                                                                               the final PRSP or of certain strategies.
                      Finalization of report                 End February 2005 The multisectoral workshop (with the
                                                                               participation of UPPE, governmental
                                                                               organizations and development
                                                                               partners) to validate sectoral strategies
                                                                               took place in November 2005. Reports
                                                                               on phases 1 and 3 to be available in
                                                                               May 2006 and report on phase 2 in
                                                                               June 2006.




                                                      - 16 -

      Area of
   Intervention                      Activities                    Due Date                       Comments
                     Distribution of report to ministries,    Early May 2005     Not yet done. Distribution will take
                     provinces, communities, partner                             place after the above-mentioned
                     organizations                                               reports are available.
Draft PRSP           First draft of full PRSP completed       April 2005         First draft of full PRSP completed in
                                                                                 May 2005.
                     Second draft of PRSP.                    June 2005          Completed, and distributed to
                                                                                 development partners in July 2005.
                     Third draft of PRSP.                                        Third draft, which did not include the
                                                                                 results of the 1-2-3 survey, was
                                                                                 circulated for comments in January
                                                                                 2006.
                     Finalization of draft PRSP               July ­ August 2005 Expected for the 2d quarter of 2006.
                     Distribution of draft PRSP to            End August 2005    Expected for the 2d quarter of 2006.
                     Government and development partners
                     Adoption of PRSP by Government           End October 2005 Expected for the 2d half of 2006.
                                                                                 Adoption of the full PRSP and one
                                                                                 year of satisfactory implementation
                                                                                 is a HIPC Completion point trigger.
B. Maintaining Peace and Improving Governance
      Area of
   Intervention                      Activities                    Due Date                      Comments
Support Peace        Decisions on security sector reform to December 2003        World Bank financing supports the
                     define the national DDR program,                            demobilization, reinsertion and
                     including demobilization criteria                           reintegration parts of the DDR
                                                                                 program; security sector reform
                                                                                 activities are financed by other donors.
                     Put in place the institutional structure December 2003      The Interministerial Commission
                     to steer and implement the national                         Responsible for the Formulation and
                     program, notably the National DDR                           Direction of DDR matters was created
                     Commission and the Executive                                by decree No 03/041 on December 18,
                     Secretariat. The Manager of the                             2003; the National Commission on
                     Executive Secretariat is appointed.                         Disarmament, Demobilization and
                                                                                 Reinsertion was created by decree No.
                                                                                 03/042 on December 18, 2003; the
                                                                                 Committee Managing Disarmament,
                                                                                 Demobilization and Reinsertion funds
                                                                                 was created by decree No. 03/043 on
                                                                                 December 18, 2003.
                     The national DDR program is finalized January 2004          Finalized in January 2004. Presidential
                     after consultations and national                            decree signed on October 15 2004.
                     dissemination
                     Disarmament and demobilization phaseBeginning in April The beginning of the disarmament and
                                                              2004               demobilization has been delayed to
                                                                                 March 2005.




                                                    - 17 -

       Area of
   Intervention                   Activities                   Due Date                       Comments
                   Reinsertion and reintegration phase     Beginning in      The beginning of the reinsertion and
                                                           November 2004     reintegration phase has been delayed to
                                                                             September 2005.
Fight Against      Enactment of decree on Code of Good November 2002         Done.
Corruption         Conduct for Civil Servants
                   Preparation and submission to           Before end        Anti-corruption law has been adopted
                   Parliament of anti-corruption law       November 2003     by Parliament in November 2004 and
                                                                             promulgated in March 2005.
                   Preparation and transmission to         October 2003      Done.
                   Parliament of draft law against money
                   laundering and financing of terrorism
                   Adoption of law against money           Before end        Law against money laundering and
                   laundering                              December 2003     financing of terrorism has been
                                                                             enacted in July 2004. A financial
                                                                             intelligence unit for anti-money
                                                                             laundering has been established.
                                                                             Implementing decrees are being
                                                                             prepared.
Public Expenditure Revision of budget nomenclature         July 2002-present The public expenditure classification
Management                                                                   has been completely revised in
                                                                             conformity to international standard.
                   Modernization of public expenditures July 2001- June      The manual of expenditures was
                   execution system, and preparation of    2003              published in May 2003; it includes all
                   manual on public expenditure                              four stages of expenditure execution
                   execution chain
                   Implementation of computer link         August 2003       Completed. Link is operational since
                   between Treasury ­ and Central Bank                       April 2005.
                   Implementation of the new public        August 2003       Completed.
                   expenditure IT system (chaine de la
                   dépenses)
                   Classification of expenditures by their Starting November Current State budgets are prepared
                   nature                                  2003              according to the new budget
                                                                             classifications.
                   Establishment of poverty expenditure    September 2003    Created in October 2003.
                   monitoring committee
                   Production of quarterly budget          Beginning in 2004 Government started the production of
                   execution reports (i) using economic,                     budget execution report using the new
                   administrative and functional                             economic, administrative and
                   classifications; and (ii) for                             functional classification and presenting
                   HIPC-financed expenditures.                               budget execution of poverty-related
                                                                             spending and HIPC-financed
                                                                             expenditures ­ however, further
                                                                             improvements in budget reporting are
                                                                             necessary.
                                                                             HIPC completion point triggers
                   Audit of payroll procedures and system January ­ end      Completed. Payroll system was
                                                           April 2004        audited in the first trimester of 2004.




                                                 - 18 -

       Area of
    Intervention                    Activities                  Due ate                         Comments
                     Implementation of a new, simplified    Before end January Implementation has been delayed. The
                     transitional payroll system            2005               new system is expected to be
                                                                               operational by September 2006.
                     Securing the central database of civil End of 2004        Implementation has been delayed. A
                     servants                                                  central filing system will be
                                                                               established when the results of the
                                                                               census are available for the whole
                                                                               country (end-2006).
                     Implementation of double-entry         2004 - 2005        A simplified double-entry accounting
                     national chart of accounts                                system is being put in place at the
                                                                               Treasury Directorate, but the system is
                                                                               not yet operational.
                                                                               This is a HIPC completion point
                                                                               trigger
Procurement System Completion of a complete audit of        Before end April   Audit of the current system, assisted by
Reform               procurement system                     2004               the World Bank in the form of a
                                                                               Country Procurement Assessment
                                                                               Report (CPAR), completed in April
                                                                               2004; Government adopted its action
                                                                               plan in September 2004. Commission
                                                                               de Réforme des Marchés Publics
                                                                               created in October 2004 and its
                                                                               Executive Secretary appointed in
                                                                               March 2005.
                     Elaboration and implementation of a    2004 - 2006        A new procurement code is being
                     new procurement code and its                              drafted and will be submitted to the
                     principal application decrees                             Government in mid-2006. Its adoption
                                                                               is expected for end 2006.
                                                                               This is a HIPC completion point
                                                                               trigger
Civil Service Reform Institutional audits of selected       2004-2005          Done for Planning, Finances, Budget,
                     ministries                                                and Agriculture These audits have
                                                                               been financed by Belgian Technical
                                                                               Cooperation.
                     Audit of service delivery system for   During 2004        Surveys of service users and providers
                     health, education and justice and rural                   (Institutional and Governance Review)
                     development                                               focusing on territorial administration,
                                                                               health, education and justice have been
                                                                               carried out in the entire country and
                                                                               final report has been issued in June
                                                                               2005.
                                                                               This is a HIPC completion point
                                                                               trigger.




                                                    - 19 -

      Area of
   Intervention                  Activities                    Due Date                      Comments
                  General census of civil servants         2005-2006          In progress. Preliminary results for
                                                                              Kinshasa are available except for
                                                                              education and scientific research since
                                                                              June 2005. Final results for the whole
                                                                              country are expected by end-2006.
                  Establishment of a central database of 1 January 2005       Awaiting general census results.
                  civil servants which will serve as the
                  basis for the personnel and payroll
                  management
                  Preparation of a strategy for civil      2003-2005          Tranche release condition for CSR
                  servant retirement program for those                        reform floating tranche.
                  who already reached the retirement age                      Completed. A strategy adopted by the
                  by December 31, 2004                                        Council of Ministers in February 2005
                                                                              outlines the methods for identifying
                                                                              the eligible civil servants and paying
                                                                              the indemnities (retirement package).
                                                                              It includes a sequencing of actions, a
                                                                              calendar, the calculation method to
                                                                              determine the indemnities, and the
                                                                              salary scales.
                  Departure of first group of civil        During second half Not yet completed. The identification
                  servants into retirement                 of 2004            of the first group (about 6,000 retirees)
                                                                              is completed. The payments are
                                                                              expected to be made in the second half
                                                                              of 2006.
                  Second group of departures               During second half Retirement of the second group of
                                                           of 2004 and 2005 about 90,000 retirees (or more) will
                                                                              take place after the census results are
                                                                              available.
Decentralization  Presentation, discussion and adoption December 2003         A decentralization law prepared by the
                  of a draft law on the organization of the                   Government, led by the Ministry of
                  country                                                     Interior, has been submitted to
                                                                              Parliament. The World Bank
                                                                              supported a parliamentary review of
                                                                              the draft law in September 2004.
                                                                              However, since then discussions
                                                                              towards the adoption have not moved
                                                                              forward.




                                                 - 20 -

      Area of
    Intervention                    Activities                  Due Date                    Comments
Judicial System      Audit report on the Congolese judicial Before end       A review of the judicial system was
                     system                                 December 2003    completed in draft in February 2004,
                                                                             with a broad diagnostic report
                                                                             validated in a workshop in November
                                                                             2004. Outcomes of the review used to
                                                                             finalize the action plan.
Modernize and        Revision of the judiciary and legal    2002             Completed through adoption of new
Strengthen Legal and framework                                               laws governing central bank,
Regulatory                                                                   commercial banks and savings
Framework                                                                    institutions.
Strengthen Central   Annual audits, undertaken by           2000-2002        Completed, under IMF supervision.
Bank                 international auditors
                     Implement action plan to strengthen    2001- present    The Central Bank has continued to
                     BCC as a financial institution per se,                  implement its action plan aiming at
                     and in its role as monetary authority                   strengthening its administrative and
                                                                             management capabilities. Bukavu and
                                                                             Kisangani branches have been
                                                                             rehabilitated; studies on the issuance of
                                                                             new bank notes have been made and
                                                                             new instructions on licensing and
                                                                             management of microfinance
                                                                             institutions have been issued.


C. Financial Sector
      Area of
    Intervention                     Activities                  Due date                   Comments
Restructure          Decision to liquidate 3 public         March 2003       Decision has been made, and banks
Commercial Banks     commercial banks (NBK, BCA, BCCE)                       have been liquidated.
                     Finalization of a series of audits of  July ­ September Audits have been completed.
                     other commercial banks                 2003
                     Preparation and finalization of bank   Before end       Following audits, five commercial
                     restructuring plans for audited banks  December 2003    banks adopted a restructuring plan
                                                                             approved by the Central Bank, and two
                                                                             were closed, bringing the total number
                                                                             of banks in liquidation to five.
                     Completion of patrimonial audits of    Before end       Completed.
                     NBK, BCA and BCCE                      November 2003
                     Establishment of formal agreement      Before end March Completed.
                     with BCC on restructuring plans        2004
                     Cancellation of operating licenses of  Before end March Completed.
                     banks determined as non-viable         2004
                     following audits
                     Implementation of regular supervision During 2004       Achieved, through the "Banking SPN
                     of banks                                                Application" software at Central Bank.




                                                   - 21 -

       Area of
     Intervention                      Activities                      Due Date                       Comments
                       Reinforcement of procedures of              During 2004        In progress. Fiscal and regulatory
                       agreement on criteria of eligibility for                       framework to be strengthened through
                       stockholders                                                   bills that Government submitted to
                                                                                      Parliament Central Bank Directive on
                                                                                      bank stockholders.
                       Preparation of a new chart of accounts To be operational In progress. The Central Bank is in the
                       for banks.                                  as of January 2005 process of finalizing the new chart of
                                                                                      accounts which would become
                                                                                      effective in 2006.


D. Private Sector Development
       Area of
     Intervention                      Activities                      Due Date                       Comments
Judicial Reform        Reform of new investment and labor          2002               Completed, but not all implementation
                       codes                                                          decrees for labor code have not yet been
                                                                                      issued.
                       Publication of new mining code              2002               Completed.
                       Publish principal decrees of application 2003                  Completed.
                       of new mining code
                       Adoption of new forestry code               August 2002        Completed.
                       Creation of commercial tribunals            2002               Completed.
                       Designation of personnel to work at the 2003                   Judges and other personnel have been
                       commercial tribunals                                           trained.
                       Creation by ministerial decree of a         June 2003          Completed.
                       national arbitration center
                       Creation of ANAPI                           2002               Completed.
                       Creation & operationalization of Single     July 2003          Completed.
                       Customs Window at Port of Matadi
Taxation               Publication of new customs tariff           2002-2003          Completed.
                       Finalize new customs code                   Before end June    Completed. The new Customs Code has
                                                                   2004               been adopted by the National Assembly
                                                                                      on June 21 2005.
                       Suspension of certain fiscal and Para       Nov 2003           Completed.
                       fiscal levies
                       Preparation of action plan for reform of Now until end June Initial stages done ­ ongoing.
                       direct and indirect taxes                   2004
                       Preparation of global action plan for direct2004               Completed.
                       & indirect tax reform as concerns firms
Labor Regulations      Finalization and adoption of main           During 2004        Government has adopted in 2005 some
                       decrees concerning application of                              of the main application decrees for the
                       Labor Code                                                     new labor code.




                                                        - 22 -

      Area of
   Intervention                 Activities                    Due Date                       Comments
Business-Related Comprehensive audit                      First trimester of Undertaken in 2004.
Administrative                                            2004
Procedures
Domestic Debt    Audit of government arrears to the       September 2003     Completed.
                 private sector between 1 July 1997 and
                 31 December 2001
                  Audit of claims generated before 30     Before end         Completed.
                  June 1997                               December 2003
                  Preparation of action plan for          First semester of  Plan satisfactory to IDA, and
                  resolving problem of internal debt      2004               adopted by government, was a
                                                                             tranche release condition for the
                                                                             Internal Debt Tranche.
                 (i) Complete process of certification    During 2004        The total stock of commercial debt as
                 and reconciliation of private                               of 12/31/2001 was determined to be
                 enterprises' financial claims on the                        US$472 million. The exhaustive list of
                 State; (ii) negotiate with creditors the                    creditors and debts was published in
                 payment of credits and (iii) actual                         the Official Gazette and in media (June
                 payment of credits                                          2004). Government reached an
                                                                             agreement on the terms of payment and
                                                                             discount rates of the internal debt
                                                                             arrears with private domestic creditors
                                                                             representing approximately 77% of the
                                                                             stock of debt at an average discount
                                                                             factor of 75% in NPV terms. The
                                                                             internal debt arrears will be paid over a
                                                                             period of three years starting in 2005.
                                                                             Payments will be made through
                                                                             Banque Commerciale du Congo.
Utilities        Adoption of an Action Plan for           December 2003      Done. The objective was not to reform
                 controlling the government's                                the utilities, but to try to improve
                 consumption of petroleum, water,                            budget management by the
                 electricity and telephone.                                  Government.
                 Regular payments of monthly              By January 2004    Done, with the establishment of a
                 electricity and water bills based on the                    monthly flat rate of $500,000 for SNEL
                 estimated consumption                                       and $450,000 for REGIDESO.




                                                - 23 -

      Area of
    Intervention                      Activities                  Due Date    Comments
                      Implementation of action plans,          2004           Tranche release condition for the
                      acceptable to IDA, by the electricity                   public utility tranche
                      company (SNEL) and the water                            SNEL and REGIDESO have adopted
                      company (REGIDESO) to improve                           action plans.
                      billing to government entities.                         (i) The SNEL action plan calls for an
                                                                              audit of Government designated
                                                                              distribution posts, establishing the
                                                                              identity of the billable public sector
                                                                              client base, procuring and installing
                                                                              new meters as necessary, and
                                                                              introducing a validated computerized
                                                                              monthly billing system.
                                                                              (ii) The REGIDESO action plan
                                                                              involves educating institutional clients
                                                                              in the purpose and modalities of the
                                                                              revised system, identifying distribution
                                                                              points and procuring/installing meters
                                                                              at key points, together with improving
                                                                              the water distribution system between
                                                                              these points and the final user (to
                                                                              eliminate unmetered access), and
                                                                              monitoring and evaluation of progress
                                                                              and results.
                      Establishment of Trust Accounts by       2004           Done. The two companies have
                      SNEL and REGIDESO, for reception                        established trust accounts to receive the
                      of the flat-rate payments for utilities.                payments in January 2005.
                                                                              Tranche release condition for the
                                                                              "public utility" tranche.

E. Public Enterprise Reform
      Area of
    Intervention                      Activities                  Due Date                    Comments
                      Brainstorming workshop on                September 2001 Completed.
                      desirability and principles of reform
                      Creation of a Public Enterprise Reform 30 October 2002  Completed.
                      Commission (COPIREP) by
                      presidential decree
                      Nomination of Executive Secretary and July 2003         Completed.
                      two deputies
                      Implementation of technical committee During 2004       Ongoing.
                      of COPIREP
                      Distribution to Government of            April 2003     Completed.
                      accounting and operational audits of
                      certain enterprises




                                                     - 24 -

      Area of
    Intervention                   Activities                  Due Date                     Comments
                    Make fully operational sectoral         During 2004     COPIREP formed sectoral working
                    working groups and studies on process                   groups in 2004, and studies are
                    of reform of public enterprises in key                  ongoing.
                    sectors
                    Preparation of action plans for reform During 2004      Ongoing. Following the audits, the
                    of public enterprises : Gecamines,                      government has restructured some
                    RVA, SNCC, LAC, Cititrain, OCPT                         enterprises, such as Gecamines. It has
                    and SNEL                                                also retrenched some 3,500 workers
                                                                            from the national Post and Telecom
                                                                            Company and instituted the Telecom
                                                                            regulatory commission.
                    Preparation and adoption by             During 2004     Partially achieved. Four draft bills on
                    Parliament of a judicial and regulatory                 the new judicial and regulatory
                    framework on public enterprises                         framework on public enterprises that
                                                                            Government submitted to parliament
                                                                            are still before Parliament.
                    Improve institutional capacity in       To be completed Consultant report was finalized in July
                    management and surveillance of public before end June   2005.
                    enterprises                             2004

F. Natural Resources
      Area of
    Intervention                   Activities                  Due Date                     Comments
Forestry Sector     Adopt new forestry code                 August 2002     Completed
                    Adoption of application decrees of new During 2004      A decree and nine ordinances have
                    forestry code                                           been signed. Work is ongoing on texts
                                                                            dealing with rules for concession
                                                                            awards and sustainable management
                                                                            concessions.
                    Cancellation of contracts not in line   2002 - 2004     Based on the new code, a moratorium
                    with new forestry code and moratorium                   on new logging contracts was imposed,
                    on new contracts                                        and some of the existing contracts not
                                                                            in line with the new code were
                                                                            canceled. The list of cancelled contracts
                                                                            was published in the Official Gazette.
                    Completion of economic review           2003            Completed in September 2003, and the
                                                                            proposed fiscal reforms were adopted in
                                                                            March 2004 and implemented in
                                                                            November 2004.
                    Beginning of work relative to           Before end      The new area tax has been increased
                    adjustment of area tax and reduction of December 2003   from $0.10 per hectare in 2004 to
                    indirect taxation on transport, and exit                $0.20 per hectare in 2005; ONATRA
                                                                            decreased its tariffs from $8.00 to $5.00
                                                                            per ton in 2005.




                                                  - 25 -

       Area of
    Intervention                  Activities                    Due Date                     Comments
                   Completion of voluntary departures        January 2004     Completed in January 2004 (10,654
                   program                                                    persons have received payments).
                   Examine partnership agreements and        January 2004 ­   Completed.
                   prepare statutes of new company           before end June
                                                             2004
                   Definitive validation of restructuring    Between July and The final strategy will be known after
                   strategy at government level              September 2004   the financial and legal evaluation of the
                                                                              partnership agreements by the
                                                                              consultants.
                   Presentation of restructuring strategy to Before end       Same as above.
                   the Parliament                            December 2004

G. Social Sectors
       Area of
    Intervention                  Activities                    Due Date                     Comments
Health             Speeding up implementation of 8 MODMarch 2004              Service contracts signed with
                   contracts, should show visible results in                  eight execution agencies /
                   improvement of basic service delivery                      NGOs under the EMRRP
                   to people served under the EMRRP                           (August 2004).
                   project.
                   Final version of Country Health Status October 2004        CSR finalized in December
                   Report made available.                                     2004 and disseminated in
                                                                              2005.
                   Start of brainstorming on reform of the 2004-2005          Ongoing.
                   sector and the regulatory and budgetary
                   framework.
                   Preparation of sectoral strategy          2006             Sectoral strategy is being
                                                                              prepared based on the
                                                                              Country Status Report.
                                                                              Adoption of the strategy is a
                                                                              HIPC completion point
                                                                              trigger
Education          Action plan for the program               March 2004       Done. Action plan has been
                   «Education for all» must be presented                      finalized and adopted in
                   to the donor community                                     September 2004, and
                                                                              presented to development
                                                                              partners in 2005.
                   Rehabilitation of infrastructure, works Before end March Scope of the first phase
                   must be in the first phase of             2004             financed by EMRRP has been
                   rehabilitation                                             reduced (from 140 to 126
                                                                              schools) with completion
                                                                              expected by end-June 2006;
                                                                              second phase has started with
                                                                              support from the EMRRP
                                                                              supplement and a new
                                                                              education sector project.
                   Preliminary results of the CSR study to Before end March Done.
                   be broadly disseminated                   2004




                                                  - 26 -

      Area of
    Intervention                    Activities                  Due Date                      Comments
                     Final version of the CSR ready         August 2004        CSR study completed in January 2005
                                                                               - disseminated in Kinshasa and
                                                                               through the provinces in first half of
                                                                               2005.
                     Preparation of sectoral strategy       Before 2006        Sectoral strategy is being prepared
                                                                               based on the CSR and action plan for
                                                                               "Education for All."
                                                                               Adoption of an education sector
                                                                               strategy is a HIPC completion point
                                                                               trigger
 Social Protection   Completion of qualitative risk and     2002-2003          Completed. Reports available.
                     vulnerability study
                     Global program for the sector will be  Before end June    A global program for social protection
                     developed within the coming months     2004               has been finalized (September 2005).
                     based on studies already completed

H. Agricuture and Rural Development
      Area of
    Intervention                    Activities                  Due Date                      Comments
Increase Level of    Implementation of program of           2002-2003          Completed in 2003, with support
Agricultural Output increasing seeds                                           under the EMRRP.
                     Rehabilitation of 850 ha of irrigated  From now until     Under study.
                     land                                   2005
                     Studies for improved aviculture        Beginning of 2004 Studies were launched in 2004 and are
                     program, improvement of small                             in progress
                     livestock raising, fish farms and local
                     fishing
                     Improvement of sale of agricultural    From now till June Started in 2004 under the EMRRP.
                     products (access to local markets)     2005               Work in progress by UNOPS for a first
                     resulting from rehabilitation of 5000                     phase of about 1,300 km of roads.
                     km of rural tracks
                     Repairing bridges                      Since June 2003    Completed. Repair works done by
                                                                               UNOPS in 2004.
                     Implementation of an information       Now till June 2004 Not done, for lack of financing.
                     system on market prices for
                     agricultural products
Develop a Rural      Begin studies                          Strategy due in    Rural strategy being developed.
Strategy                                                    2006               Agriculture sector review was
                                                                               completed in 2006.
                                                                               Adoption of strategy as a HIPC
                                                                               completion point trigger




                                                    - 27 -

I. Infrastructure (Roads, Electricity and Water)
       Area of
    Intervention                    Activities                   Due Date                     Comments
Rehabilitation Works Selection of international firm in      November 2002      Done. The international firm started
                      charge of works                                           work effectively in May 2003.
                      Launching of studies for the entire    2003               Done
                      program
                      Works to begin, following selection of Starting July 2004 Road works are underway since 2004
  Roads :             and mobilization of entrepreneurs by   through 2006       and scheduled to last through 2006.
                      international bid procurement notice
  Transportation :    Works in progress                      1 April 2004       Works started with a slight delay.
                                                             through 2006
  Electricity :       Study on state of SNEL installations   July 2004          Completed in July 2004.
                      Urgent works on production capacity at First semester of  Works in progress.
                      600 megawatts to begin                 2004
                      Large rehabilitation works             2005-2007          Works, including distribution and
                                                                                transmission works, are in progress.
  Water :             Execution of works                     April 2004 ­ 2006 Selected rehabilitation works have
                                                                                started and will continue through
                                                                                2006.
  Urban :             Execution of 2 important works         2004 ­ end 2005    Works begun in 2004 and completed
                      (Kasa-Vubu urban rehabilitation and                       in 2006.
                      Selembao erosion works)
Legal and Regulatory Prepare new legal and regulatory        2003-2005          Ongoing.
Reform                frameworks for petroleum, energy and
                      water sectors




                                                   - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Tranche Releases



                             Amount                Planned           Actual
         Tranche           (US$ million)        Date of Release   Date of Release
1. Initial Tranche (at         85.0              3/31/2004         5/13/2004
   Effectiveness)
2. Civil Service
   Retirement Tranche          47.5              6/30/2005         8/25/2005
3. Internal Debt Tranche       42.5              6/30/2005         8/25/2005
4. Public Utilities
   (Centralized                25.0              6/30/2005         11/17/2004
   Payments) Tranche
          Total               200.0




                                         - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Nov - Dec 2003          11     2 Lead Economists
                                             2 Sr. Economsts
                                             1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Private Sector Development
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Forestry Specialist
                                             1 Economist
                                             1 Junior Professional Associate
                                             1 Consultant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Jan 2004                11     2 Lead Economists
                                             2 Sr. Economsts
                                             1 Sr. Public Sector Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Forestry Specialist
                                             1 Economist
                                             1 Junior Professional
                                             Associate
                                             1 Lead Financial Specialist
                                             1 Consultant

 Supervision
              May 2005                  6    2 Sr. Economists
                                             2 Economists
                                             2 Program Assistants


 ICR
              Apr - May 2006            5     1 Sr. Economist
                                              1 Economist
                                              2 Consultant
                                              1 Program Assistant




                                              - 31 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           57.83                     309,072.85
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                          52.55                     214,074.19
  ICR                                  21.18                      75,079.83
  Total                              131.56                      598,226.87




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Concept Paper - October 23, 2003.

2.   Minutes of the ROC Review Meeting - December 23, 2003.

3.   Program Document on a proposed credit in the amount of SDR 135.2 million (US$200 million
     equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of Congo for a Post-Reunification Economic Recovery
     Credit - January 30, 2004 (Report No.: 27720).

4.   Development Credit Agreement (Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit) dated March 9,
     2004 - Credit Number 3862 DRC.

5.   Procès-verbal des Négociations - Crédit de Relance Économique Post Réunification (CREPR) -
     le 16 janvier 2004.

6.   Project Information Document - Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit - January 09, 2004.

7.   Memorandum on Release of the Centralized Payments Tranche - Cr. 38620-DRC - November 11,
     2004.

8.   Memorandum on the Release of the Civil Service Retirement and Internal Debt Tranches - Cr.
     38620-DRC - August 25, 2005.

9.   Report and Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors on a proposed
     credit of SDR360.4 million (US$450 million equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of Congo for
     an Economic Recovery Credit - May 17, 2002 (Report No.: P7531).

10.  Program Document for a proposed grant in the amount of SDR62.1 million (US$90 million
     equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of the Congo for a Transitional Support for Economic
     Recovery Operation - November 8, 2005 (Report No.: 33785-ZR).

11.  Aide-Mémoires and Back-to-Office Reports.

12.  Official/Government documents for the different tranches. For example: "Rapport des
     négociations de la dette intérieure, Stratégie de Mise à la retraite, Plans d'action pour les
     charges communes", etc.




                                                - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report




                                        - 36 -

'

            RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU CREDIT DE RELANCE ECONOMIQUE
                                     POST-REUNIFICATION



La République Démocratique du Congo traverse depuis deux décennies, une crise multiforme
caractérisée par des déséquilibres structurels dans tous les secteurs de son économie.

Depuis 2001, le Gouvernement s'est résolument engagé dans la voie de la restauration de la
paix, de la normalisation de ses relations avec les créanciers extérieurs, de la relance de la
croissance et de la lutte contre la pauvreté.

Sur le plan politique, les efforts du Gouvernement ont produit des résultats           positifs et
encourageant avec la mise en place à la date du 30 juin 2003 d'un Gouvernement inclusif de
Transition.

Sur le plan économique, le Gouvernement s'est réjoui de voir la Communauté Financière
Internationale l'accompagner dans ses efforts de stabilisation et redressement de la situation
économique du pays. Ces efforts ont donné lieu à un fort soutien notamment de la Banque
Mondiale (plus exactement l'Association Internationale pour le Développement), du Fonds
Monétaire International, de la Banque Africaine de Développement, de l'Union Européenne et
de nombreux créanciers bilatéraux.

C'est dans ce contexte que le Gouvernement a bénéficié en 2004 du soutien de la Banque
Mondiale sous forme de crédit de relance économique de l'ordre de 200 millions USD
comprenant une tranche de la mise en vigueur de                      85 millions USD qui a été
décaissée immédiatement et qui a permis au Gouvernement de respecter certains critères
quantitatifs et structurels de son programme économique en 2004. La partie restante a servi à
financer le programme de mise à la retraite, la       dette intérieure, et la rationalisation des
charges Communes. Les décaissements de ces tranches en 2005 ont, une fois de plus,
contribué à améliorer certains indicateurs du Programme Economique du Gouvernement.

Le présent rapport renseigne sur l'utilisation de l'appui budgétaire de la Banque Mondiale de
2004. Ce rapport est présenté suivant le schéma recommandé par la Banque Mondiale. Il
comprend quatre parties, représentant les différentes composantes financées par cet appui
budgétaire. Il s'agit de :

I.      La tranche de mise en vigueur
II.     La mise à la retraite
III.    La dette intérieure
IV.     Charges communes

I.      TRANCHE DE MISE EN VIGUEUR

1.1     Evaluation générale de la performance du crédit

Le Budget de l'Etat pour l'exercice 2004 a présenté un déficit de financement que le crédit de
relance économique post-réunification a comblé par la tranche de mise en vigueur d'un



                                              - 37 -

montant de USD 85 millions. Comme indiqué, ci-dessus, le décaissement de cette tranche a
favorisé la réalisation de certains critères pertinents du Programme Economique du
Gouvernement au cours de l'exercice 2004.

La politique budgétaire en 2004 a visé la consolidation des efforts de stabilisation
macroéconomique, tout en prenant pleinement en compte les effets de la réunification du pays
et en tirant les bénéfices de la paix pour réorienter la dépense publique en faveur de la
réduction de la pauvreté.

En effet, durant l'exercice 2004, le fonctionnement de l'Etat a connu un accroissement des
dépenses inhérentes à la mise en place des institutions issues de l'Accord Global et Inclusif,
en l'occurrence les quatre Vice-Présidences, l'Assemblée Nationale avec 500 députés, le
Sénat avec 120 Sénateurs, cinq institutions d'appui à la démocratie avec leurs assemblées
plénières. Le budget de l'Etat a pris également en compte des fonctionnaires, des militaires et
des policiers des Provinces réunifiées.

En ce qui concerne particulièrement les effets inhérents à la réunification du pays, la tranche
de mise en vigueur a permis de renforcer la capacité du Gouvernement à faire face aux
besoins des territoires réunifiés, notamment en matière de rémunérations des agents et
fonctionnaires de l'Etat.

1.2      Performance de la Banque Mondiale et celle de l'emprunteur

Il convient de relever le bon climat de collaboration qui a caractérisé toutes les phases de
préparation, de négociation et de la mise en oeuvre du crédit, y compris dans la réalisation des
conditions de décaissement des tranches. Les services de la Banque Mondiale ont procédé au
décaissement des fonds dès que les conditions de mise en oeuvre étaient remplies.

1.3      Evaluation des objectifs de développement et de la conception du crédit

Les objectifs de développement poursuivis par le CRE 3 sont en adéquation parfaite avec les
objectifs du Programme Economique du Gouvernement. En effet, le crédit a permis de
soutenir les réformes structurelles qui contribuent à la réalisation des objectifs du PEG telles
que les réformes des procédures d'exécution de la dépense publique, la maîtrise de la masse
salariale via la mise à la retraite et le recensement des agents et fonctionnaires de l'Etat, la
réduction des arriérés intérieurs, la maîtrise des dépenses à crédits centralisés etc.

1.4      Leçons apprises

Il y a lieu de retenir la nécessité d'impliquer les ministères sectoriels dans la conception et
l'articulation des mesures dont la mise en oeuvre leur incombe directement. De cette façon, ils
seront suffisamment sensibilisés sur les conditions préalables au décaissement de fonds et sur
les résultats attendus.

Il serait indiqué lors de la préparation du crédit que les contreparties attendues du
Gouvernement soient clairement exprimées et évaluées en vue d'une bonne prise en charge
budgétaire au moment de l'élaboration de la loi de finances de l'exercice pour lequel le crédit
est accordé. Il s'agit surtout du coût des réformes à mettre en oeuvre par le Gouvernement.




                                                - 38 -

II.     TRANCHE DE MISE A LA RETRAITE

2.1     Evaluation générale de la performance de l'appui

-       Résultat final attendu

Le résultat final ne pourra être connu qu'après l'indemnisation du 2ème lot des retraités.

-       Viabilité du projet

Le projet est viable. Mais, les problèmes techniques liés à sa mise en oeuvre n'ont pas été
identifiés dès le départ. Une fois qu'ils ont été résolus, le projet a démarré sans difficultés
majeures.

-       Impact sur le développement institutionnel

L'impact sur le développement institutionnel a été significatif dans la mesure où la mise à la
retraite des agents et fonctionnaires de l'Etat, après le recensement, va contribuer à une
meilleure maîtrise des effectifs du personnel civil de l'Etat et au rajeunissement de
l'administration publique et à la rationalisation des emplois et postes en son sein.

-       Performance de la Banque Mondiale par rapport à la qualité de son appui

La performance de la Banque Mondiale a été satisfaisante, étant donné que les fonds ont été
débloqués aussitôt que les conditions requises ont été remplies.

-       Performance du Gouvernement dans la préparation de la mise en oeuvre de
l'appui budgétaire

Le travail préliminaire d'indemnisation du premier lot des retraités (1985 - 2003) est en cous de
finalisation. Les listes préliminaires des candidats éligibles à la retraite (du deuxième lot) sont
en préparation.

2.2     Evaluation des objectifs et de la conception du projet

L'objectif de l'opération qui est celui d'assurer le paiement des indemnités de fin de carrière
des agents retraités du premier et du deuxième lot pourra être réalisé en 2006. La conception
des opérations d'indemnisation, intervenue après l'accord de financement, a nécessité le
recours à un consultant international.

2.3     Réalisation des objectifs et résultats escomptés

-       Identification du 1er lot : Satisfaisante.

L'identification a eu lieu et les noms des bénéficiaires ont été publiés au Journal Officiel; de
même que des chèques nominatifs ont été établis. Il ne reste plus que le versement de ces
indemnités aux différents bénéficiaires.

-       Mise à la retraite du 2ème lot : Satisfaisante.



                                                - 39 -

Les listes préliminaires des candidats éligibles à la retraite issues du recensement sont
élaborées progressivement.

2.4     Facteurs majeurs ayant affecté la mise en oeuvre de l'appui ainsi que les résultats

Parmi les facteurs majeurs ayant affecté la mise en oeuvre du projet, il y a lieu de citer le retard
dans la désignation de l'institution financière chargée d'assurer les paiements en raison du
désistement de la Banque Centrale du Congo.

2.5     Autres commentaires du Gouvernement

Le montant de 47,5 millions USD d'appui budgétaire de la Banque Mondiale permettra
d'assurer le départ des agents et fonctionnaires de l'Etat retraités depuis longtemps sans être
indemnisés et de ceux qui ont atteint l'âge de retraite à l'issue du recensement. C'est un
élément très important pour la paix sociale. Mais, les taux des indemnités à verser sont
modiques et ne permettent pas aux retraités d'assurer une fin de carrière heureuse.


III.    TRANCHE DE LA DETTE INTERIEURE

3.1     Evaluation générale de la performance du crédit

-       Résultat final attendu : satisfaisant.

Le règlement des arriérés commerciaux pour la tranche 2005 tel que convenu avec les
créanciers a été effectué.

-       Viabilité du projet : élevée.

Le projet est viable car il été l'élément déclencheur pour le paiement de la dette publique
intérieure et il a tracé le cadre pour le traitement futur de celle-ci, surtout en ce qui concerne
les termes de l'accord déterminés lors de la négociation et qui seront appliqués pour les
paiements à venir.

-       Impact du crédit sur le développement institutionnel : modeste.

L'impact est difficile à déterminer par manque de mécanisme de suivi du projet. Néanmoins, il
a été remarqué un regain de confiance dans les milieux d'affaires au sujet de la capacité de
l'Etat à payer ses dettes ; une relance des activités des créanciers éligibles au crédit de la
Banque mondiale ; un allègement substantiel de la dette obtenu, rendant ainsi le service de la
dette soutenable. Toutefois, ce crédit de 42,5 millions USD est insuffisant et ne peut pas
produire un impact considérable dans l'économie nationale.

-       Performance de la Banque Mondiale par rapport à la qualité de son appui :
satisfaisante

Le crédit est arrivé à propos car il a permis à apurer une partie des arriérées. En outre, il y a eu
deux supervisions : une dans cadre du projet Développement et Compétitivité du secteur



                                                - 40 -

privé, et une autre relative aux aspects strictement économiques. Par exemple, en ce qui
concerne notamment le taux de décote appliqué et/ou l'impact du credit sur économie, chaque
superviseur, d'une manière isolée, demandait ses données et donnait son appréciation alors
que les deux appartiennent à la même Banque Mondiale. Ce manque d'harmonisation et de
coordination au niveau de ces deux supervisions a souvent embarrassé l'équipe technique
gouvernementale et a gêné plus d'une fois la bonne conduite du projet.

-         Performance du Gouvernement dans la préparation et la mise en oeuvre du crédit :
très satisfaisante.

Le Gouvernement s'est totalement impliqué dans la préparation du projet et dans la mise en
oeuvre de ce dernier à travers la Commission de la Dette Publique Intérieure (CDPI) crée pour
la circonstance.

3.2.      Evaluation des objectifs de développement et de la conception du projet

-         Objectifs : très satisfaisants

L'objectif est d'assurer le règlement de la dette commerciale privée en vue, d'une part,
d'instaurer un climat des affaires susceptible de promouvoir la croissance des entreprises qui
seront capables de ce fait de créer de nouveaux emplois et, d'autre part, d'arriver à un service
de la dette soutenable au regard des ressources très limitées dont dispose le pays. Pour ce
faire, il est question :

i.        D'achever le processus de certification et de réconciliation des créances
          des entreprises privées sur l'Etat ;
ii.       De négocier avec les créanciers le règlement de ces créances ;
iii.      De procéder à la mise en paiement.

           Les différentes composantes du projet sont :

i.        Certification des créances
ii.       Restructuration de la dette
iii.      Paiement

-         Conception du projet : modeste.

Il aurait fallu prévoir une autre composante en vue de mesurer l'impact réel du crédit sur
l'économie. Par ailleurs, les ressources allouées (42,5 millions USD) pour l'apurement des
arriérés n'ont pas été déterminées sur base des besoins réels. En outre, la structure
gouvernementale chargée de la gestion du projet n'a pas été prise en charge par le crédit
comme cela est de coutume ; ceci n'a pas été un facteur motivant.

3.3       Réalisation des objectifs et résultat escompté

-         Certification : satisfaisante.

Il s'agissait de certifier toutes les créances pour la période allant jusqu'au 31 décembre 2001.
Une 1ère certification a été réalisée par PwC. Les créances nées dans les territoires réunifiés



                                                - 41 -

lors de la guerre ainsi que celles des retardataires sont en cours de certification par le cabinet
KPMG.

-        Négociation : très satisfaisante.

Il s'est dégagé de cette négociation un accord avec des créanciers détenteurs de 77,44% d'un
portefeuille soumis à la négociation évalué à 472,1 millions USD, soit plus de 75% tel que
stipulé dans les conditions particulières de décaissement du crédit. Cet accord a été conclu sur
base d'une décote moyenne actualisée d'environ 80%, conduisant d'une part, à un allègement
de l'ordre de 268,8 millions USD obtenu sur un stock de 365,6 millions USD négocié, et d'autre
part, à un rééchelonnement sur 3 ans de la dette résiduelle d'une valeur de 96,8 millions USD.

-        Paiement : très satisfaisant.

 Le montant total à payer aux créanciers pour la tranche 2005 est de 42.593.992 USD. La
Banque Mondiale avait décaissé 42.338.016 USD, le reste ayant été pris en charge par le
Trésor public. Les opérations de paiement ont été exécutées par la BCDC, la banque payeuse,
à hauteur de 97,3%. A la date du 10.04.2006, le solde disponible en compte est de USD
1.165.306. La partie non payée est du fait des litiges relatifs aux mandats et à l'organisation de
la succession. Selon nos prévisions, tous les litiges pourront être réglés au plus tard fin juin
2006, sous réserve de celui qui est pendant devant le Parquet Général de la République près
la Cour Suprême de Justice.

3.4      Facteurs majeurs ayant affecté la mise en oeuvre du crédit ainsi que les résultats

-        Sécurité : substantielle.

Les perturbations d'ordre sécuritaire intervenues à l'est du pays en juin et en octobre 2004 ont
entraîné un surcroît de dépenses publiques et partant un dérapage au niveau de l'inflation et
du taux de change. Ceci a fait que le décaissement de l'appui budgétaire a été fortement
retardé étant donné que les conditions relatives à l'exécution du Programme Economique du
Gouvernement et à la stabilité macroéconomique n'étaient pas réalisées. Le retard dans le
décaissement du crédit a suscité dans le chef des créanciers un découragement et une
méfiance à l'égard de l'Etat.

-        Décote : élevée.

 Le taux de décote très élevé n'a pas permis à ce que 106,5 millions USD soient négociés, soit
22,55% du portefeuille soumis à la négociation. Ce stock a déjà commencé à subir le jeu de
cession de créance au bénéfice des entreprises étrangères en vue d'exercer sur l'Etat un
moyen de pression beaucoup plus important (procès, saisie, ...).

3.5      Leçons apprises

La sélection d'une banque payeuse chargée d'assurer le paiement des créanciers a été une
très bonne expérience.

3.6      Autres commentaires du Gouvernement




                                              - 42 -

Le paiement des arriérés pour 2006 sera pris en charge par le Gouvernement dans le cadre
du Budget de l'exercice en cours. Le service de la dette pour l'année 2007 sera difficilement
soutenable au regard de l'annuité 2007 à payer aux créanciers qui ont signé le protocole
d'accord avec le Gouvernement ainsi que des arriérés en cours de certification par KPMG.
D'où la nécessité d'un crédit supplémentaire que la Banque Mondiale pourrait accorder à l'Etat
en vue de l'apurement des arriérés non seulement commerciaux, mais aussi d'une autre
nature (condamnations judiciaires, arriérés de salaires, ...).

Les besoins financiers des entreprises créancières sont énormes. Les 42,5 millions USD
injectés dans l'économie n'ont certes pas permis une relance substantielle de l'économie. A
cet effet, il serait judicieux d'envisager pour rencontrer leur besoin en investissement, un
système de crédit relais qui serait accordé aux entreprises créancières qui ont consenti
d'énormes sacrifices en acceptant un taux de décote très élevé. Ce crédit pourra être étendu à
d'autres entreprises.

La SFI, filiale du Groupe de la Banque Mondiale, a attendu le paiement des arriérés de son
débiteur, Grand Hôtel de Kinshasa (GHK), pour obtenir un accord que ce dernier lui paye
toute l'annuité 2005 qu'il a perçue de l'Etat dans le cadre du crédit IDA de 42,5 millions USD et
ce, contre un allègement substantiel de sa dette. Un accord de ce genre qui du reste est tout à
fait régulier sur le plan juridique et commercial, ne peut en aucun cas favoriser la relance
recherchée d'autant plus que le GHK est détenteur d'une créance de près de 10% du
portefeuille soumis à la négociation et bénéficiaire pour l'année 2005 d'un montant de 3,9
millions USD représentant 9% du crédit IDA. Pareille attitude affichée par un partenaire sensé
connaître les objectifs du projet, n'est pas du tout encourageante.

IV. TRANCHE DES CHARGES COMMUNES

4.1     Evaluation générale de la performance de l'appui

-       Résultat final attendu : très satisfaisant.

Le résultat final attendu comporte deux volets :

i.      le rétablissement des conditions permettant au Gouvernement d'assurer le
        paiement régulier de ses consommations réelles d'eau et d'électricité
        facturées après prélèvement contradictoire des index prélevés ;
ii.     la pose des compteurs dans tous les points de vente des instances
        officielle par la REGIDESO et la SNEL et l'actualisation des fichiers des
        bénéficiaires (personnes physiques ou morales) de la gratuité des
        consommations d'eau et d'électricité.

-       Résultats à mi-parcours : modeste

Les résultats à      mi-parcours ne sont pas du tout satisfaisants à cause du retard dans
l'opération de pose des gros compteurs par la REGIDESO et la SNEL. Cette situation
empêche la mise en oeuvre des mesures visant la rationalisation des consommations d'eau et
d'électricité et le paiement par l'Etat de ces dernières suivant une facturation objective.

Pour palier à cette difficulté, il a été convenu avec ces sociétés du paiement par le



                                                - 43 -

Gouvernement d'un forfait mensuel respectif de USD 450.000 et USD 500.000 à la
REGIDESO et à la SNEL.

-        Viabilité du projet : incertaine.

La viabilité du projet est incertaine, car sa pérennisation dépend d'une part de la volonté de la
REGIDESO et de la SNEL à parachever le travail de la pose des compteurs et d'autre part, la
capacité du Gouvernement à payer régulièrement ses factures.

-        Impact du projet sur le développement institutionnel : satisfaisant.

L'impact du projet sur le développement institutionnel est satisfaisant parce qu'il a permis à
l'Etat de réduire sensiblement ses dépenses relatives aux consommations d'eau et
d'électricité. Ces dépenses qui atteignaient le montant de USD 1.000.000 en 2005 et 2006.

Il y a lieu d'indiquer aussi le renforcement des capacités de la Direction de l'Intendance
Générale et des Crédits Centralisés ainsi que des Divisions Provinciales du Ministère du
Budget.

-        Performance de la Banque Mondiale par rapport à la qualité de son appui : très
satisfaisante.

 L'intervention de la Banque Mondiale a été très positive car elle a permis à l'Etat Congolais
 d'améliorer la gestion de ses dépenses communes et la fiabilisation du système de comptage
 des Instances Officielles (Ministères, Institutions, Provinces, Districts et Territoires);

 Par ailleurs, la supervision du projet a été bien assurée et concrétisée par plusieurs descentes
 sur terrain effectuées par les partenaires ainsi que les séances d'évaluation organisées entre
 les deux parties.

-        Performance du Gouvernement dans la préparation et la mise en oeuvre du crédit :
satisfaisante.

(i)      La préparation du projet

 Dans la préparation du projet, le Gouvernement a tenu compte des éléments suivants :

-        l'absence d'un cadre juridique définissant et réglementant avec clarté la
         gestion des dépenses communes;
-        la nécessité de créer les conditions adéquates devant permettre le
         fonctionnement harmonieux de la structure chargée d'animer ledit projet.

(ii)     La mise en oeuvre du crédit

Malgré la lenteur constatée dans le décaissement des fonds ayant entraîné un grand retard
dans la mise en oeuvre du plan, les actions ci-dessous ont été réalisées :

-        l'extension et la réhabilitation du bâtiment abritant la Direction de
         l'Intendance Général et de Crédits Centralisés;



                                                 - 44 -

-     l'envoi des missions d'identification des points d'alimentation en eau et en
      électricité;
-     l'acquisition de matériels roulants pour le compte de la Direction de
      l'Intendance Générale et des Crédits Centralisés et des Divisions
      Provinciales;
-     l'acquisition de quelques matériels de froid et outils informatiques;
-     la sécurisation de la chaîne de la dépense;
-     la définition d'un nouveau cadre réglementaire et normatif sur les charges
      communes;
-     la contribution aux travaux préparatoires à la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie
      de mise à la retraite financée par la Banque Mondiale;
-     la sélection d'un cabinet d'Audit Indépendant pour accompagner la mise en
      oeuvre du plan d'action;
-     le début des travaux de conception des logiciels de gestion des charges
      communes et l'élaboration des manuels de procédures.

(iii) L'utilisation du crédit par les organismes : non satisfaisante.

Sur base de l'évaluation du protocole d'accord conclu entre le Gouvernement d'une part, la
REGIDESO et la SNEL d'autre part, il y a lieu d'indiquer que l'utilisation du crédit par ces deux
organismes n'est pas satisfaisante.

·     SNEL

-     La SNEL a obtenu un financement de USD 12.000.000, dont USD
      2.500.000 destinés à la viabilisation du système de comptage des
      instances officielles et l'amélioration de la qualité de la desserte en énergie
      électrique en faveur de la population ;
-     L'analyse du rapport d'évaluation sur le niveau d'exécution, transmis au
      Ministère du Budget, fait apparaître que la SNEL a affecté à l'opération
      viabilisation du système de comptage des instances officielles un montant
      de USD 1.616.907,00 au lieu de USD 2.500.000;
-     L'objectif qui lui était assigné à savoir la pose des compteurs moyenne et
      basse tension dans les sites répertoriés à travers à travers la ville de
      Kinshasa, Provinces, Districts et Territoires n'a pas été atteint;
-     L'entreprise sollicite du Gouvernement l'octroi des crédits supplémentaires
      pour lui permettre de parachever toutes les actions prévues dans son plan.

·     REGIDESO

-     La REGIDESO à bénéficié d'un financement de USD 10.000.000, dont
      USD 1.050.000 affectés à l'assainissement des consommations d'eau
      potable à charge de l'Etat et l'amélioration de la qualité de la desserte en
      énergie électrique en faveur de la population ;
-     Il a été constaté que seuls les petits compteurs ont été installés. Les gros
      compteurs destinés aux hôpitaux, aux camps militaires, aux écoles et aux
      universités n'ont pas encore été posés.
-     Pour parachever le travail de mise en oeuvre, l'entreprise sollicite du
      Gouvernement l'octroi des crédits supplémentaires.



                                               - 45 -

4.2     LECONS APPRISES

Les difficultés rencontrées par la REGIDESO et la SNEL dans la mise en oeuvre de leur plan
d'actions respectif pose le problème de l'implication directe du Gouvernement dans la gestion
des fonds d'appui leur destinés.

Dans l'avenir, pour permettre au Gouvernement d'exercer un meilleur contrôle de la mise en
oeuvre de ce type de projet, il serait indiqué d'inscrire lesdits appuis dans le budget de l'Etat de
l'exercice au titre de crédits d'investissement au profit de ces entreprises.




                                                - 46 -

                                    Translated from Original (French)

Democratic Republic of Congo                                              Kinshasa, May 18, 2006
Ministry of Finance
Office of the Minister
Boulevard du 30 Juin
Kinshasa-Gombe
E-mail: cabfinances@yahoo.fr-minfinrde@micronet.ed
URL: http://www.minfinrde.ed

No. 0794 CAB/MIN/FINANCES/CTR/MIS/KAN/2006

Copies provided for information purposes to:

-       The Vice President of the Republic heading the
        Economic and Financial Commission
-       The Minister of the Budget
-       The Minister of the Civil Service
-       The Vice Minister of Finance
-       The National Coordinator of the CTR

All in Kinshasa-Gombe                             [World Bank stamp: Received May 18, 2006]

Mr. Pedro Alba
Country Director
Democratic Republic of Congo, Africa Region
World Bank
Washington, DC
U.S.A.

Subject: Transmission of completion report

Mr. Director:

        I am enclosing the completion report on the Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit granted
by IDA to the Congolese Government in 2004.

        This report, structured in the manner recommended by the World Bank, provides information on
use of the budget support from the World Bank in the tranches identified during the negotiation process.

Very truly yours,
/s/
Marco Banguli




                                                   - 47 -

                  POST-REUNIFICATION ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
                                     COMPLETION REPORT
                                  ___________________________

For two decades, the Democratic Republic of Congo has been in the throes of a multi-dimensional
crisis, manifested by structural imbalances in all sectors of its economy.

Since 2001, the Government has been resolutely engaged in a process aimed at reestablishing
peace, normalizing its relations with its external creditors, restoring growth, and reducing poverty.

In the political sphere, the Government's efforts have produced positive and encouraging results,
with the establishment on June 30, 2003 of an inclusive transition Government.

In the economic sphere, the Government was very pleased to see the international financial
community join in efforts aimed at the stabilization and improvement of the DRC's economic
situation. As a result of these efforts, strong support was provided by the World Bank (more
specifically, the International Development Association), the International Monetary Fund, the
African Development Bank, the European Union, and numerous bilateral creditors.

Against this backdrop, the Government benefited from World Bank support in 2004 taking the
form of an Economic Recovery Credit amounting to US$200 million, including a tranche of
US$85 million at the time of effectiveness, which was disbursed immediately and made it possible
for the Government to meet a number of the quantitative and structural criteria of its 2004
economic program. The remainder was used to finance its retirement program, internal debt, and
the streamlining of common charges. The release of these tranches in 2005 once again served to
strengthen a number of indicators of the Government's economic program.

This report provides information on the use of the budget support from the World Bank in 2004,
and is structured in the manner recommended by the World Bank. It is composed of four parts
corresponding to the different components financed by this budget support, namely:

I.      Effectiveness tranche
II.     Retirement
III.    Internal debt
IV.     Common charges




                                                 - 48 -

I.       EFFECTIVENESS TRANCHE

1.1.     General assessment of the performance of the credit

A financing gap in the FY 2004 government budget was covered by the effectiveness tranche of
the Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit in the amount of US$85 million. As indicated
earlier, release of this tranche made it possible to meet a number of criteria of the Government's
economic program during FY 2004.

Fiscal policy for 2004 targeted the strengthening of efforts aimed at macroeconomic stabilization,
while fully taking into account the effects of reunification on the country and using the benefits
derived from the restoration of peace to reorient public expenditure toward poverty reduction.

In fact, in FY 04, government operating expenditure increased as a result of the establishment of
the institutions mentioned in the All-Inclusive Agreement, specifically the four vice presidential
offices; the National Assembly staffed with 500 members; the Senate, with 120 senators; and five
institutions which hold their plenary sessions and are assigned the mission of supporting the
democratic process. The government budget also covered civil servants, military officers, and
police in the reunified provinces.

With regard to the specific effects of reunification of the country, the effectiveness tranche
facilitated capacity-building by the Government in order to meet the needs of the reunified
territories, particularly in terms of the payment of civil servants.

1.2.     Performance of the World Bank and the borrower

Mention should be made of the positive atmosphere and cooperation during all the phases of
credit preparation, negotiation, and implementation, as well as during the establishment of
conditions for release of the tranches. The World Bank disbursed the funds as soon as
implementation conditions had been met.

1.3.     Assessment of development objectives and credit design

The development objectives sought by the ERC 3 are perfectly aligned with the objectives of the
Government's economic program. In fact, the credit made it possible to provide assistance with
structural reforms contributing to achievement of such objectives of the Government's economic
program as reform of public expenditure execution procedures, control of the wage bill through
the retirement and carrying out of a census of civil servants, reduction of internal arrears, and
control of centrally-funded expenditures.




                                                 - 49 -

1.4.    Lessons learned

Due note should be taken of the need to involve the sector ministries in the design and drafting of
measures for which they will be directly responsible for implementing. If this is done, they will be
sufficiently aware of the prerequisites for the disbursement of funds and expected outcomes.

It would be advisable, during the credit preparation process, that the counterpart funds expected
from the Government be clearly articulated and evaluated so that proper provisions can be made
in the budget at the time of drafting of the budget law for the fiscal year for which the credit is
granted. This is especially important with regard to the cost of the reforms to be implemented by
the Government.

II.     RETIREMENT TRANCHE

2.1.    General assessment of the assistance provided

-       Expected outcome

The outcome will not be known until payments have been made to the second group of retirees.

-       Viability of the project

The project is viable; however, technical problems linked to its implementation were not identified
from the outset. Once they were resolved, the project got off the ground without any major
difficulties.

-       Impact on institutional development

The impact on institutional development will be significant, given that the retirement of civil
servants, once the census has been conducted, will contribute to better control of the number of
government employees, lead to a younger government workforce, and to the streamlining of jobs
and positions within the Government.

-       Performance of the World Bank relative to the quality of its assistance

The performance of the World Bank was satisfactory, given that the funds were disbursed as soon
as prerequisites had been met.

-       Performance of the Government ­ preparations for budget support implementation

The preliminary work related to compensation of the first group of retirees (1985 ­ 2003) is being
completed. The preliminary lists of candidates eligible for retirement (second group) are being
prepared.




                                                 - 50 -

2.2.    Assessment of objectives and project design

The objective of the activity, namely to provide retirement packages to civil servants who had
retired in the first and second groups, may be met in 2006. The services of an international
consultant were needed to put together compensation packages, an activity that came after the
financing agreement.

2.3.    Achievement of objectives and expected outcomes

-       Identification of the first group: Satisfactory

The identification process was carried out, the names of beneficiaries were published in the
Official Gazette, and checks payable to order were prepared. The only thing left to be done is to
pay the various beneficiaries.

 -      Retirement of the second group: Satisfactory

The preliminary lists of candidates eligible for retirement as a result of the census are being
prepared gradually.

2.4.    Major factors that affected implementation of support and outcomes

The delay in the designation of the financial institution responsible for payments owing to the
withdrawal of the Central Bank of the Congo is one of the major factors that affected project
implementation.

2.5.    Other Government comments

Budget support from the World Bank in the amount of US$47.5 million will ensure pension
coverage of civil servants who retired a long time ago without being compensated and of those
civil servants who will be identified through the census as having reached retirement age. This is
a very important factor for social peace. However, compensation packages to be provided are
modest and will not provide retirees with bright prospects at the end of their careers.

III.    INTERNAL DEBT TRANCHE

3.1.    General assessment of the performance of the credit

-       Expected outcome: Satisfactory

In accordance with the agreement reached with creditors, commercial arrears linked to the 2005
tranche were cleared.

-       Viability of the project: High




                                                 - 51 -

The project is viable given that it served as the trigger for the payment of internal public debt and
established the framework for handling this debt in the future, particularly with respect to the
terms and conditions of the agreement reached during the negotiation process, to be applied to
future payments.

-       Impact of the credit on institutional development: Modest

The impact is difficult to gauge, owing to the absence of a project follow-up mechanism.
Nonetheless, the following were noted: a restoration of confidence in business circles regarding
the ability of the Government to pay its debts; a resumption of activity by creditors eligible for the
World Bank credit; and the granting of substantial debt relief, which made debt servicing
sustainable. However, this credit of US$42.5 million is insufficient and cannot have a significant
impact on the national economy.

-       Performance of the World Bank in relation to the quality of its assistance:
Satisfactory

The credit came at the right time, given that it allowed a portion of arrears to be cleared.
Moreover, there were two supervision activities: one pertaining to the private sector development
and competitiveness project, and the other, to purely economic matters. For example, with regard
to the discount rate applied and/or the impact of the credit on the economy, each supervisor,
working independently, requested data and provided separate assessments, despite the fact that
the two are World Bank employees. This lack of harmonization and coordination at the
supervision level was often problematic for the Government's technical team and on more than
one occasion interfered with the smooth flow of the project.

-       Performance of the Government - credit preparation and implementation: Highly
satisfactory

The Government was fully involved in project preparation and implementation through the
Internal Public Debt Commission [Commission de la Dette Publique Intérieure, CDPI],
established for this purpose.

3.2.    Assessment of development objectives and credit design

-       Objectives: Highly satisfactory

The objective is to ensure the settlement of private commercial debt with a view to establishing a
business climate conducive to the growth of enterprises, thereby leading to job creation, and to
arrive at a sustainable level of debt servicing given the DRC's very limited resources. To that
end, it will be necessary to:

i.      Complete the process of certification and reconciliation of debt owed to private
enterprises by the Government;
ii.     Negotiate the settlement of this debt with creditors; and



                                                 - 52 -

iii.    Make payments.

The different project components are:

i.      Debt certification;
ii.     Debt restructuring; and
iii.    Payment.

-       Project design: Modest

Provisions should have been made for another component in order to measure the true impact of
the credit on the economy. Moreover, the resources allocated (US$42.5 million) to debt
clearance were not based on actual needs. In addition, the government entity responsible for
management of the project did not, as is usually the case, assume responsibility for the credit, a
factor that served as a demotivator insofar as the project is concerned.

3.3.    Achievement of objectives and expected outcome

-       Certification: Satisfactory

Certification was required for all debt as of December 31, 2001. PwC carried out the first
certification. The debt linked to the territories that were reunified following the war, as well as
arrears, are being certified by KPMG.

-       Negotiation: Highly satisfactory

As a result of these negotiations, an agreement was reached with creditors holding 77.44 percent
of the portfolio subject to negotiation, assessed at US$472.1 million or more than 75 percent, as
stipulated in the specific conditions governing disbursement of the credit. This agreement was
reached on the basis of an average present value discount rate of approximately 80 percent,
resulting in debt relief on the order of US$268.8 million obtained on the US$365.6 million debt
stock negotiated, and in a three-year rescheduling period for the residual debt valued at US$96.8
million.

-       Payment: Highly satisfactory

The total amount to be paid to creditors under the 2005 tranche is US$42,593,992. The World
Bank has disbursed US$42,338,016. The public treasury will be responsible for the remainder.
The BCDC, the paying Bank, has already made payments amounting to 97.3 percent. As of
April 10, 2006, the available account balance was US$1,165,306. The unpaid portion is
attributable to disputes regarding responsibilities and the structuring of succession arrangements.
Based on our projections, all disputes will be settled by June 2006 at the latest, with the exception
of the one before the General Prosecutor's Office in the Supreme Court.




                                                 - 53 -

3.4.     Major factors affecting credit implementation and outcomes

-        Security: Substantial

Security problems in the eastern part of the country in June and October 2004 led to a surge in
public expenditure and thus slippage in the areas of inflation and exchange rates.
As a result, disbursement of budget support was greatly delayed, given that the conditions tied to
execution of the Government's economic program and macroeconomic stability were not met.
The delay in disbursement of the credit disappointed creditors and led to a loss of confidence in
the Government.

-        Discount: High

The very high discount rate stood in the way of negotiation of US$106.5 million or 22.5 percent
of the portfolio subject to negotiation. Transfer of this stock to foreign enterprises has already
started, as a way of exerting much greater pressure on the Government (legal proceedings,
seizure, etc.).

3.5.     Lessons learned

The selection of a paying bank responsible for paying creditors proved to be a very positive
experience.

3.6      Other Government comments

The Government will cover payment for 2006 arrears in the budget for the current fiscal year.
Debt servicing for 2007 will be difficult to sustain, taking into account the 2007 annual installment
to be paid to the creditors that signed the Memorandum of Understanding with the Government
as well as the arrears currently being certified by KPMG. For this reason, the Government would
need a supplementary credit amount from the World Bank to settle both commercial and other
arrears (legal payments, salary arrears, etc.).

The financial needs of lending institutions are vast. The infusion of US$42.5 million into the
economy clearly has not led to substantial economic recovery. For this reason, it would be
prudent to arrange for a bridging loan system to meet the investment needs of those lending
institutions that have made great sacrifices by accepting a very high discount rate. Such loans
could also be extended to other enterprises.

The IFC, a member institution of the World Bank group, waited until its borrower, Grand Hôtel
de Kinshasa (GHK) had paid its arrears to obtain an agreement from the latter to pay it the full
2005 annual installment that it received from the Government as part of the US$42.5 million IDA
credit, in exchange for substantial debt reduction. While such an agreement is perfectly
acceptable from a legal and commercial standpoint, it will not contribute in any way to the
recovery sought, especially since GHK holds a loan amounting to close to 10 percent of its



                                                 - 54 -

portfolio subject to negotiation and received the sum of US$3.9 million in 2005, amounting to
nine percent of the IDA credit. The adoption of such a stance by a partner who is supposed to be
aware of the objectives of the project is not at all encouraging.

IV.     COMMON CHARGES TRANCHE

4.1     General assessment of the performance of the assistance

-       Expected outcome: Highly satisfactory.

The expected outcome is two-dimensional:

i.      The reestablishment of conditions enabling the Government to make regular payments for
        its actual use of water and electricity, with billing taking place after verification by both
        sides of the basis used for calculations;
ii.     The installation meters at all official sales points by REGIDESO and SNEL and the
        updating of the files of those entities entitled to free water and electricity (individuals and
        corporations).

-       Mid-term outcomes: Modest

The mid-term outcomes are quite unsatisfactory, given the delay in the activity by REGIDESO
and SNEL in installing big meters. This situation is preventing the implementation of measures to
streamline water and electricity use and the payment by the Government for use of these utilities
based on objective billing.

In order to address this problem, an agreement was reached with REGIDESO and SNEL by the
Government on a monthly flat fee of US$450,000 and US$500,000, respectively.

-       Viability of the project: Uncertain

The project's viability is uncertain, given that its sustainability is contingent on the willingness of
REGIDESO and SNEL to complete the task of installing big meters as well as the ability of the
Government to pay its bills regularly.

-       Impact of the project on institutional development: Satisfactory

The impact of the project on institutional development is satisfactory given that it has allowed the
Government to reduce significantly its expenditure on water and electricity consumption. This
expenditure, which soared to US$5 million in previous years, has fallen to under US$1 million in
2005 and 2006.

Mention should also be made of capacity-building by the Direction de l'Intendance Générale et
de Crédits Centralisés [General Intendancy and Centralized Appropriations Directorate] and the
provincial units of the Ministry of Budget.



                                                  - 55 -

-       Performance of the World Bank in relation to the quality of its assistance: Highly
satisfactory

The intervention of the World Bank has been very positive in that it has enabled the Congolese
Government to improve management of its common expenditures and the reliability of the
metering system of official entities (ministries, institutions, provinces, districts, and territories).

In addition, project supervision has been well handled through several on-site visits by the
partners as well as evaluation sessions organized by the two parties.

-       Performance of the Government - preparation and credit implementation:
Satisfactory

(i)      Project preparation

During project preparation, the Government took the following into account:

-       The absence of a legal framework to clearly define and regulate the management of
common expenditures;
-       The need to create conditions conducive to the harmonious functioning of the entity
responsible for moving this project forward.

(ii)    Credit implementation

Despite the fact that the slow pace of disbursement of funds led to a major delay in the
implementation of the plan, the actions outlined below were carried out:

-       Expansion and rehabilitation of the building housing the Direction de l'Intendance
Générale et de Crédits Centralisés;
-       Dispatch of inspection teams to water and electricity distribution points;
-       Acquisition of mobile support equipment for the Direction de l'Intendance Générale et de
Crédits Centralisés and the provincial entities;
-       Purchase of some cooling devices and computer equipment;
-       Enhancement of security within the expenditure chain;
-       Establishment of a new regulatory and legislative framework applicable to common
charges;
-       Provision of assistance with preparatory work for the implementation of the retirement
strategy financed by the World Bank;
-       Selection of an independent audit firm to monitor implementation of the action plan; and
-       Commencement of software design work for managing common charges and the
preparation of manuals of procedure.

(iii)   Use of credit by entities: Unsatisfactory




                                                 - 56 -

An assessment of the Memorandum of Understanding concluded between the Government, on the
one hand, and REGIDESO and SNEL, on the other, indicates that use of the credit by these two
entities was not satisfactory.

·       SNEL

-       SNEL obtained financing amounting to US$12,000,000, US$2,500,000 of which was
earmarked for improving the metering system of government entities as well as improving
electricity service to the population;
-       Analysis of the evaluation report on the execution level, transmitted to the Ministry of
Budget, showed that SNEL earmarked US$1,616,907.00 instead of US$2,500,000 million to
work aimed at improving the reliability of the metering system of government entities;
-       The task assigned to SNEL, namely the installation of average-and low-tension meters at
the sites inventoried throughout the city of Kinshasa, provinces, districts, and territories, was not
carried out;
-       The company is requesting additional loans from the Government so that it can complete
all the activities set forth in the plan.

·       REGIDESO

-       REGIDESO obtained financing amounting to US$10,000,000, US$1,050,000 of which
was earmarked for improvement of the drinking water supplied by the Government and
improvement of water supply service to the population;
-        It was noted that only small meters were installed. The big meters, intended for hospitals,
military camps, schools, and universities, have not yet been installed.
-       In order to complete the installation work, the company is requesting additional loans
from the Government.

4.2     LESSONS LEARNED

The difficulties encountered by REGIDESO and SNEL in the implementation of their respective
action plans point to the problem of the direct involvement of the Government in management of
the support funding earmarked for these companies.

In future, it would be advisable to include this funding in the government budget for the fiscal year
in question under capital expenditures for these companies, so that implementation of projects of
this nature can be more closely monitored by the Government.




                                                 - 57 -

               10° E                                 15° E                                CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                                               25° E                                                          30° E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S U D A N
                                                                                                                                                                          To
         5° N                                                                                                                                             To           Bangasso                                                                                                                         5° N
                                                                                                   To                     Ubangi                        Kembe
                                                                                              Bangui                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                           ZongoZongo                                                                                                                                                       Juba
                                                                                                                                                                              BondoBondo                                                               Faradje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Faradje
                                                                                                            LibengeLibenge                                                                  Uele
                                                                                                                                         BusingaBusinga
                                    DEM. REP.                                                                                                                                                          Titule
                                                                                                                                                                                                         itule
                                                                                                                             GemenaGemena                                                ButaButa                                                     Wat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Wa sa      Kibali
                                   OF CONGO
                                                                                                                                                                               Aketi
                                                                                                                                                                               Aketi                                                       Isiro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Isiro                                    To
                                                                                                        ImeseImese        Akula
                                                                                                                          Akula          LisalaLisala      Bumba
                                                                                                                                                           Bumba                                  O R I E N TA L E                                                                Pakwach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 amba
                                                                                              Oubangui                                                                                                                                                                               UGANDA
                                                                                                                                  Lopori Bongandanga
                                                                                                                                         Bongandanga                    Congo             Banalia
                                                                                                                                                                                          Banalia      Aruwimi                                        Mongbwalu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mongbwalu         Bunia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bunia

                                                                                                                      Lulonga                                                                                                                                                Lake
                                                                                                                              Basankusu
                                                                                                                              Basankusu                                                                            Bafwasende
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bafwasende                                       ts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M         Albert
                                                                                                                                                                           Yangambi
                                                                                                                                                                             angambi                                                                     Beni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Beni
                                                                                                                              E Q U AT E U R                                                         KisanganiKisangani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Butembo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Butembo         Margherita Peak
         0°                                                                                                                                                                                             Wanie Rakula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                anie Rakula
                                                                                                       Mbandaka
                                                                                                       Mbandaka                           Boende
                                                                                                                                          Boende                                                                                                             itumba(5,110 m)                              0°
                                                       CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                                M    Lake
                        GABON                                                                                                                           Tshuapa                                                            LubutuLubutu        N O R D           Edward                  Lake
                                                                                                   Bikoro
                                                                                                   Bikoro                                                            Ikela
                                                                                                                                                                     Ikela
                                                                                                                                  Luilaka    Salonga     Lomela                           Lomami        Lualaba                                K I V U -
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lowa                                          GomaGoma                            Victoria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Ruhengeri
                                                                                                         Inongo
                                                                                                         Inongo                                                                                                      Ulindi                                 Lake Kivu
                                                                               Yumbi
                                                                                umbi                                                        Betamba
                                                                                                                                            Betamba                                                             nogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To               RWANDA
                                                                                             Kutu
                                                                                             Kutu                                                                                                                          KalimaKalima        Bukavu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bukavu     Kibuye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S U D -
                                                                 Bandundu
                                                                 Bandundu                                             Buna
                                                                                                                      Buna                                            Lodja
                                                                                                                                                                      Lodja                                         KinduKindu
                                                KINSHASA                                                   Kasai                       Lukenie                                                                                          K I V U     Uvira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Uvira       To
        ATLANTIC                                                                  B A N D U N D U                                                                       K A S A I                M A N I E M A                         KamaKama            Bujumbura       BURUNDI
                                                                                                                           Mangai
                                                                                                                           Mangai             Sankuru
                                                                                                                                      Ilebo
                                                                                                                                      Ilebo
          OCEAN                                                                                                                                                      O R I E N TA L
                                                           KINSHASAKINSHASA                  Bulungu
                                                                                             Bulungu                                      KASAIKASAI                                                 MalelaMalela
                                                                                    Kenge
                                                                                    Kenge                                                                                  Lusambo
                                                                                                                                                                           Lusambo                                        Kasongo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kasongo           Lulimba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lulimba
         5° S       CABINDA                                                                           Kikwit
                                                                                                      Kikwit               Idiofa
                                                                                                                           Idiofa  OCCIDENTAL
                                                                                                                                   OCCIDENTAL                                                                                                                                                            5° S

                  (ANGOLA)                 B A S - C O N G O                                                                                                                                                                    Kongolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kongolo
                            To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TANZANIA
                           Pointe- BomaBoma          Mbanza-NgunguMbanza-Ngungu                                                                                              Mbuji-Mbuji-
                           Noire                                                                                  Kwilu                     Kananga
                                                                                                                                            Kananga                                                                                    Lukuga    Kalemie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kalemie        Lake
                                             Matadi                                         Feshi
                                                                                            Feshi                                                                            MayiMayi
                                                         To                                                                                                                                Kabinda
                                                                                                                                                                                           Kabinda                                                              Tanganyika
                                                        Damba                                                                                                                                                                  Kabalo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kabalo
                                                                                    Kwango                                    Tshikapa
                                                                                                                               shikapa    Kasai                                                                                 Lualaba                  Moba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Moba
                                                                                                                                                          Mwene-Ditu
                                                                                                                                                          Mwene-Ditu                                                       Manono
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Manono
             DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
               POST-REUNIFICATION                                                                                                                                                           Lomami     K ATA N G A                                 Luvua

              ECONOMIC RECOVERY                                                                                                                                      Kapanga
                                                                                                                                                                     Kapanga                        Kamina
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kamina                             Mts.     Pweto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pweto

                          CREDIT                                                          A N G O L A                                                      LuluaLulua            Lueo                                         ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kilwa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kilwa         Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mweru
                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                     Sandoa
                                                                                                                                                                       Sandoa                                           MitumLufira
                                                                                                                                                                                                    LubudiLubudi                                                                                        10° S
                         PROVINCE CAPITALS

                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                               0          100         200          300        400 Kilometers                   Dilolo
                                                                                                                                                               Dilolo                        Kolwezi
                                                                                                                                                                                             Kolwezi                                                 Luwingu           Z A M B I A
                         RIVERS                                                                                                                      To                                                              Likasi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Likasi                                                                     Lake
                                                                                                                                               Lucano                                                   Lualaba                                                                                Malawi
                         MAIN ROADS                                            0              100                      200 Miles                                                                                                          Lubumbashi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lubumbashi                                                  I      IBRD
JUNE                     RAILROADS                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                      ZAMBIA                                    To       Sakania
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sakania                                                     34816
    2006                                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                            Kitwe                                                  ALAW
                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                     25° E                                                          30° E                            M

