                                                                                           33421
                                    Democratic Republic of Congo
                                      Economic Recovery Credit
                                              Cr. 3862-DRC
               Release of the Civil Service Retirement and InternalDebt Tranches


                                          I. Background

 1.      The DRC continues its recovery from 25 years o f mismanagement and collapse o f the
 State under the regime o f Mobutu Sese Seko, culminating in a dreadful decade o f political
 instability and conflict involving groups from the entire Great Lakes region during the 1990s.
 Since January 2001, the Congolese authorities have taken a number o f important steps to
implement the peace agreements, to liberalize political life and to address key economic issues.
A coalition government o f transition is functioning and the country is preparing for elections. A
UNpeacekeepingforce, the Mission d'Obsewation desNations Unies au Congo (MONUC) has
been deployed throughout the country and is helping stabilize even the most conflict affected
areas o f the country. Just as the instability, conflict, and ungovernability o f the D R C had regional
implications, the stabilization o f the D R C i s critical to sustained peace inthe region.

2.      On the economic front, the Government's reforms have included fiscal stabilization (now
in its fifth year); liberalization of prices, interest rates, and foreign exchange; reform of the
Central Bank, liquidatiodrestructuring o f non-performing/weak banks coupled with banking and
co-operative banking acts; steps to adopt and apply the new codes for mining and forestry, and
continued implementation o f a broad set o f good governance and anti-corruption policies. A
program o f public enterprise reforms is underway, together with tax and regulatory reforms
designed to facilitate private sector growth and job-creation. The Government continues to
negotiate with its internal and external creditors to lighten the remaining debt burden.

3.      The Credit provides overall support to the Government's economic program (programme
kconomique du gouvernement, or PEG) for sustainable growth and poverty reduction, described
inthe Letter ofDevelopment Policy, dated January 21,2004, as well as inthree specific areas: (i)
settlement o f internal debt to public utilities with services important to the poor; (ii) settlement o f
internal debt to private commercial creditors; and (iii)effective retirement program for civil
servants who have already attained the official retirement age.          Proceeds o f the Credit provide
funds necessary to support DRC's reform efforts and finance the economy's continued
stabilization, rehabilitation and reconstruction.

                   11.     RECENT POLITICALAND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS

4.      Progress continues in the process of peace, reunification and political reconciliation.
The Congolese continue the important steps they began to take in 2001 to implement the 1999
Lusaka Peace Accord and agreements reached through the inter-Congolese dialogue, to liberalize
political life and to address key economic issues. On October 1, 2004 (resolution 1565) the
Security Council expanded the mandate o f United Nations Organization Mission in the Congo
(MONUC) and authorized an increase in its troop from 10,800 to 16,700. Its forces have been

 redeployed from their former observation posts throughout the country where peace has been
 established firmly to the remaining areas o f localized violence in the northeast, and it is
 beginningto stabilize even these regions. The effectiveness o f the reunification was marked in
 October 2004 by a visit by President Kabila to formerly-rebel held Kisangani. However, the brief
 seizures in late M a y 2004 o f the eastem city o f Bukavu by ethnic militants, and in October 2004
 o f a town inKatanga by an unknown armed group, demonstrate that the process i s still fragile.

 5,      At the same time, the Demobilization, Repatriation, Resettlement and Reintegration
program, supported by the UN and IDA, has become operational and is beginning to help ex-
 combatants, including child soldiers, to reintegrate themselves into society. The program i s
 supported by the Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) for the
 Great Lakes Region: the program for D R C was consideredby the Executive Directors o f IDA on
M a y 25,2004, and financed by grants from several countries and international organizations. The
 command structure o f the combined armed forces has been reunified and regional military
commanders have been appointed and taken their posts throughout the country, though a small
number o f soldiers o f former rebel groups have refused tojoin. The EuropeanUnionlaunched in         .
 September 2004 a program to train a national police force, with members also drawn from all o f
the former armed groups, andplans to expand this program to five centers nationwide. The long-
term aim i s to train 9,000 police officers to lead a police force to maintain peace throughout the
country.

6.       On the domestic front, the inclusive Government o f national unity, which took power on
June 30, 2003, with representation from all key armed groups, unarmed opposition, and civil
society, continues to function cooperatively, despite some resistance from a few opposition
leaders. Elections are scheduled to start inlate 2005, a calendar which the Special Representative
o f the Secretary General calls tight but tenable. On October 8, 2004, the Government issued a
"roadmap" defining, in a consensual manner, the actions and their timing to be undertaken by
each o f the institutions o f the Republic during the remaining months o f the transition. The
Parliament recently adopted the draft Constitution, which will be put to popular referendum. It
must also pass about 15 essential laws before the elections.

7.       These developments point to the continued commitment o f all key stakeholders to peace
andthe maintenance o f a viable process o f electoral transition, as well as the protection o fhuman
rights. They indicate a window o f opportunity `for peace and recovery in the DRC and an
opportunity for peace inthe entire sub-region. This opportunity calls for continued donor support
as the country prepares for national elections while a unified national administration is being re-
established, including inthe formerly rebel-.occupied territories.

                           111.     RECENT  ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

8.       The Government's heavily front-loaded economic reform program, monitored by staff o f
the International Monetary Fund (IMF), succeeded in breaking hyperinflation, liberalizing the
economy, and initiating major structural reforms. The program was supported by a Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), approved by the Executive Directors o f the IMF on June
12, 2002. The PGRF has been implemented satisfactorily, with the fourth review presented to
the Fund's Board on July 12, 2004. Macroeconomic performance weakened towards the end o f
2004, when money-financed emergency spending for security purposes caused rapid depreciation


                                                   2

 o f the currency, and inflation rose correspondingly. However, the strict measures undertaken by
 the Government to counter the slippage in early 2005 have stabilized the currency and domestic
 prices. Inrecognition that the macroeconomic stability has been restored, the IMF staff recently
 concluded the fifth review o f the PRGF program scheduled to be discussed at its Board on
 August 29,2005.

 9.       Overall performance under the Government's economic program (programme
 e`conomique du gouvernement or PEG), as described in the Letter o f Development Policy
 (January 21,2004), continued to be satisfactory through end 2004, with the exception o f inflation
 mentioned above. The economy grew at 6 % in2003 and 7 % in2004, reversing years o f decline
 until2001. Hyperinflation was broken, and inflationwas at less than 5 % in2003 and untilthe
 third quarter o f 2004. The emergency spending mentioned inthe previous paragraph caused the
 exchange rate to depreciate, and the prices to increase by 17% between December 04 and M a y
 05, or at an annualized rate o f roughly 60%.                     The Government took corrective measures
 including raising the Central Bank's prime rate from 25% to 60%, and rejecting systematically
 any fiscal expenditure above the authorized (budgeted) amount. As a result, the exchange rate
 stabilized and inflation started to decline after peaking in mid April. These indicators will
 continue to be monitored closely, as special programs such as elections and demobilization
program are expected to add extra pressure on the already constrained State budget in2005.

 10.      Fiscal performance in 2004 was satisfactory, with the deficit at end 2004 estimated at
3.8% o f GDP, rather than 4.9% as programmed (preliminary figures). On the revenue side, the
fiscal revenues (before grant) are estimated to be 9.1% o f GDP, outperforming the target by
approximately 3%, due to higher than expected petroleum revenues. This result confirms the
increasing trend o f fiscal revenues: they were only 5.1 percent o f GDP in2000, and are expected
to reach 11.5% in 2008. The expenditure side was less satisfactory as the end-2004 target for
current expenditures appears to have been exceeded by23%, or roughly US$14 million, although
less than expected foreign-financed capital expenditures and low execution o f HIPC priority
expenditures made total expenditures lower than projected.' Pro-poor spending, at 2% o f GDP,
missed the target o f 6.6% by a significant margin, although it still represented an improvement
over the 2003 result o f 1.5%. This underperformance is attributed to lack o f capacity to plan and
spend expeditiously the anti-poverty fund created under the terms o f the enhanced HIPC
Initiative.    The Government is taking measures to overcome these problems, particularly in
health and education sectors.

11,       On the external side, the performance o f the balance o f payments and gross foreign
reserves in 2004 was broadly satisfactory. Strong export growth and significant extemal grants
since 2001 have maintained the current account deficit at sustainable levels, despite a sharp rise
o f imports to support the recovering economy. The Central Bank's gross foreign reserves have
improved from 2.6 weeks o f non-aid related imports o f goods and non factor services in 2003 to
5.4 weeks in 2004.             The foreign exchange market has functioned satisfactorily since the
liberalization o f foreign exchange regulations inFebruary 2001 and the unification o f the foreign
exchange market in M a y 2001. The nominal exchange rate has been relatively stable vis-&vis
the U.S. dollar until the third quarter o f 2004 at roughly CGF420/dollarYbut depreciated sharply



  The current expenditure overrun inpartreflectsthe securityexpendituresmentionedabove.

 towards end 2004 to above CGF500/dollar because o f the above-mentioned emergency spending
 in a heavily dollarized economy. With the corrective measures, the exchange rate stabilized at
 around CGF51Sldollar since mid-April (and has actually appreciated somewhat), although the
 market remains volatile inthe pre-electoral context.

 12.     Other aspects o f the program (PEG) are being implemented in a broadly satisfactory
manner, albeit more slowly than forecast insome areas (see the Annex for details).



                    Iv.     PROGRESSUNDERTHE PmRCFINANCEDPROGRAM
A.       Overview
 13.     The Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit (PRERC) supports the Government's
economic reform program (PEG) in three critical areas: (i)setting up an efficient system o f
centralized payment o f public utilities; (ii)civil service management reform, and inparticular the
departure o f staff having reached retirement age; and (iii)completing the process o f debt
reduction and restructuring begununder the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC), in terms o f both
settling domestic commercial arrears and preventingthe accumulation o f new arrears.

 14.     The centralized payment tranche of the PRERC was disbursed in November 2004
upon adoption by the Government o f an action plan to control its utility use and expenditures,
and adoptionbyREGIDESO (water company) and SNEL (electricity company) o f action plans to
improve the reliability, transparency, and accountability o f their billingprocedures. As envisaged
in the action plans, the Government and the two companies are working to finalize the list of
entities entitled to State-financed water and electricity services. The two companies have begun
to install meters so that the billing can be based on actual consumption in the future
(consumption-based billing to begin by end-2005).         The Government and the companies will
agree on a protocol o f billing procedures to ensure timely payments o f the utility bills. The
payments o f the water and electricity bills (for January 2005) were effected in mid-May. The
delay notwithstanding, this payment shows that the Government has reached an important
milestone inits reform efforts to make timely and regular payments o f utility bills. The remaining
kinks in the payment system are expected to be ironed out over the next six months with the
implementation o f the three action plans.

B.      Retirement program for civil servantspast their legal retirement age

15.      The reform o f public institutions, including the civil service, constitutes one o f the four
pillars o f the Government's strategy and action plan for restoring public service delivery and
combating corruption in the DRC. To this end, a strategy for "civil service reform and for
institutional capacity reinforcement" was drafted in2003 with the technical assistance o f a multi-
donor program. The reform program includes the following actions:

    (i)      defining a strategic framework which begins at the center andprovincialbranches o f
             central ministries before moving to provincialgovernments;
    (ii)     performing operational analyses o f key ministries to lead to their reorganization;
    (iii)    reviewing service delivery mechanisms, especially at the local level, covering health,
             education, andjustice;


                                                  4

      (iv)   establishing a modempersonnel management andpayroll system based on a
             comprehensive census o f civil servants and an audit o f the payrollmanagement
             system; and
      (v)    implementing a retirement program for those staff (about 100,000) havingreached
            the legal age for retirement by end-2004.
 16.      Implementation o f this reform program started in2003. The operational analyses o f some
 o f the key ministries are completed, and others are underway. A survey to review the service
 delivery mechanism in health, education, justice, and local government's administration was
 carried out with the help o f the World Bank (preliminary report was delivered in June 2005).
 Civil service census for Kinshasa is being conducted with the help o f South Africa and other
 donors, preliminary results o f which are expected to become available in mid-2005.           The
preparations for the census in provinces will start in the second half o f 2005. Improving the
payroll system is underway with the assistance o f France, and a new transitory simplifiedpayroll
 system is expected to be operational starting October 2005, while discussions are ongoing for
introducing a permanent full-fledged human resources management system.

 17.      The PRERC supports the civil service management reform through technical
assistance to the Government for formulating the strategy for the civil servants who reached the
retirement age to depart from service, and financial assistance for paying the retirement package.
The aim i s to improve the management o f civil servants, which in tum should contribute in the
longer run to better public service delivery. A modicum o f social protection will be afforded to
the retired civil servants, which should strengthen social peace.

C. Settlement of Internal Commercial Debt

18.      The Government has made much progress on tackling public debt. First, on the external
side, Paris Club rescheduling in 2002 and progress under the enhanced HIPC Initiative have
greatly reduced the external debt service burden o f the DRC. Second, London Club deliberations
began inFebruary 2003 to address the US$833 million balance in external commercial debts. In
addition, in order to improve private investor confidence, the Government also resolved to tackle
the issue o f internal debt. To this end, the Government created an inter-ministerial steering
commission for public internal debt (Commission de la Dette Publique Interieure or CDPI),
tasked to oversee the inventory, negotiations, and settlement process o f this debt.

19.      The PRERC supports the internal commercial debt settlement through technical
assistance to CDPI, in particular, in defining the terms o f reference for and selecting (i)
independent auditor to determine the stock o f debt, (ii)  independent negotiator to facilitate the
negotiations between the creditors and the Government, and (iii)commercial bank to effect
payments to entitled creditors. The aim is to further the Government's efforts to restore its
credibility vis-a-vis the private sector, and to create an environment inwhich the private sector
activities can thrive.




                                                  5

                              v.      CONDITIONS FORRELEASEOF TRANCHES
A. General conditions
20.     The Development Credit Agreement states that two general conditions must be met at the
moment o f the PRERC floating tranche releases: (i)     the Association i s satisfied with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out o f its economic program (PEG), and (ii)the
macroeconomic policy framework o f the Borrower i s satisfactory, as measured on the basis o f
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association. These two conditions are met
as discussed in preceding sections.      Besides these, the credit agreement also specifies the
following specific conditions for release o f the civil service retirement and internal debt tranches:

B. Specific ConditionsPertaining to CivilService Retirement Tranche

21.     Specific conditions pertaining to the civil service retirement floating tranche o f the
PRERC reads as follows:

"[tlhe Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence that he has adopted, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, a strategy and implementation action plan, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association setting forth, pursuant to paragraphs 47, 48, and 49 o f
the Letter o f Development Policy, inter alia:

    (1) the sequencing o f actions required pursuant to the laws o f the Borrower to carry out the
        transition o f civil servants from active duty into retirement after having fulfilled
       mandatory retirement criteria;

    (2) (a) determination by amount and other modalities, as applicable, o f the retirement
       payment due to civil servants eligible to receive said payments pursuant to the laws o f the
       Borrower; and (b) a cut-off date for eligibility to the entitlement o f retirement payment
       financed under the Borrower's program supported through this Retirement Tranche; and

    (3) (a) a transparent mechanism for: (i)the identification o f beneficiaries o f retirement
       payments referred to inparagraph 2 o f this Part B o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement; (ii)     the
       disbursement o f retirement payments to said beneficiaries; and (iii)      the control o f funds
       disbursed to said beneficiaries; and (b) (i)       the guaranteed access o f the public to
       information pertaining to: (A) the list o f beneficiaries as referred to inparagraph 2 o f this
       Part B o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement; (B) the calendar o f payments to said
       beneficiaries; and (C) calculation method used to identify the retirement payments due to
       said beneficiaries, and (ii)the publication o f regulations and administrative acts
       pertaining to all matters set forth inparagraphs 2 and 3 o f this PartB o f Schedule 2 to the
       Agreement in the Borrower's Official Gazette and the press and other media o f wide
       circulation inthe Borrower's territory."

22.    The Borrower has met all o fthese conditions: the Borrower submitted to IDA a document
adopted by the Council o f Ministers which describes the strategy for identifying the eligible civil
servants and paying them the indemnities (retirement package). The sequencing o f actions with a
calendar and responsible parties is clearly laid out in this document. The calculation method to
determine the amount o f indemnities for each person is spelled out inthe strategy, and the salary



                                                  6

 scales by occupation and grade level are indicated inthe annex to the strategy. The cut-off date
 i s unequivocally stated as those who already left the service before 2003 for the first group o f
 retirees, and those who achieve the retirement age by December 31,2004 for the second group.
 The first group o f retirees will be identified using the documents issued at the time o f
 recruitment, which will be cross-checked with payroll and civil servant rosters. The second
 group o f retirees will be identified by the identification card issued during the civil service
 census. Adequate provisions are made for problem cases, such as the death o f the beneficiary,
 and loss o f recruitment documents due to the war or any other reasons. The retirement package
 will be paid out using a non-endorsable check issued by the Central Bank, payable at Central
 Bank branches and its affiliates. Provisions for auditing the operation are made. All the relevant
 information will be published inthe officialjournal, and will also be publicized using radio, local
 newspapers, and announcements.

 C. Specific Conditions Pertaining to Internal Debt Tranche

 23.      Specific conditions pertaining to the intemal debt floating tranche o f the PRERC reads as
 follows:

"the Borrowerhas furnished to the Association evidence inform and substance satisfactory to the
Association pursuant to paragraphs 67 and 73 o f the Letter o f Development Policy, inter alia
that:

     (1) the Stock o f Debt has been validated by the Borrower pursuant to procedures satisfactory
         to the Association;

     (2) a cut-off date after which domestic creditors are precluded from: (a) submitting claims to
         be included in the Stock o f Debt; or (b) completing or modifying already submitted
         claims to be included inthe Stock o f Debt, has been published inthe Borrower's Official
         Gazette and the press and media o f wide circulation inthe Borrower's territory;

     (3) an agreement, has been concluded between the Borrower and its creditors representing at
         least 75 percent o f the Stock o f Debt, pertaining to a common discount factor, or discount
         factors, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Association, applicable to the entire Stock
         o f Debt; and

     (4) a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, has been appointed by the Borrower,
        following a transparent competitive selection process satisfactory to the Association, to
        effect payment to entitled creditors pursuant to the agreement set forth in paragraph 3 o f
        this Part Cysubject to aprocedure satisfactory to the Association."

24.     The Borrower has met all o f these conditions. Independent audits o f internal debt to
private sector were conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers, whose service was engaged through a
competitive bidding process. The total stock o f commercial debt as o f December 31, 2001 was
determined to be US$472,135,808.        The exhaustive list o f creditors and debts was published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette, in the press and media o f wide circulation on June 28, 2004.
The Government reached an agreement on the terms o f payment and discount rates o fthe internal
debt arrears with private domestic creditors representing approximately 77% o f the stock o f debt



                                                   7

 (see Table 1) at an average discount factor o f 75% in NPV terms. The resulting settlement
 specifies payment o f the internal debt arrears over a period o f three years starting in 2005 (see
 Table 2). Subsequently, all internal debt paid will be extinguished. The Borrower confirmed
 explicitly his intention to apply the same discount factors to the remaining creditors representing
 the balance o f 23% o f the stock o f debt. Finally, payments will be made through Banque
 Commerciale du Congo (BCDC), a Congolese Bank, selected though a competitive bidding
 process.

                                     Tablel. Negotiationresults

                                 Total Creditors            Participants    Nonparticipants

                 Stock (US$)           472,135,808             365,635,833       106,499,975

          Percentage (stock)                  100%                   77.4%            22.6%

         Source: SterlingBank

             Table 2. Repaymentschedule and selectedmacroeconomicindicators

                                                     2004*      2005**    2006**     2007**
      Repayment schedule (US$ million)                              42.6     29.5        24.7

          as a share of government revenue (%)                       5.9      3.4         2.4
      Total government revenue (?!GDP)                   9.6        10.7     11.5        11.9
      Nominal GDP (billions of CGF)                   2,587        3,380    3,814       4,270
      Real GDP growth (%)                                6.8         6.6      7.0         7.0
      Exchangerate (CGF/$)                               398         500     500          500

      Source:IMFand SterlingBank, preliminary,
                                 *            ** projections


25.     The process leading to the negotiation and agreements on internal debt arrears is
satisfactory and consistent with similar processes in and outside o f Africa.        The CDPI was
established as an inter-ministerial committee where all factions of the transition Government are
represented. Several members o f the CDPI, at the ministerial level, are creditors, which i s not an
uncommon situation ina post conflict country. However, the CDPI was not directly involved in
the negotiation process, which was fully delegated to an independent negotiator selected through
a competitive process, Sterling Merchant Bank. It is to be noted that while the CDPI provided
Sterling Merchant Bank with several indications as to what the outcome o f the negotiation should
be, the negotiation process remained independent. The outcome o f the negotiations, which was
also made public, did not lead to any protest from the private sector or thirdparties.

26.     The discount factors negotiated are also consistent with risk premia factored inby private
sector operators in post conflict countries like DRC, while also leading to steep debt reductions
to the detriment o f the same private sector operators. These discount factors (average o f 75% in
NPV terms) are consistent with other similar operations inAfrican countries. Nevertheless, this
outcome results in the commitment o f the Government to repay and extinguish all intemal debt


                                                     8

arrears over a period o f three years. The first year o fpayment would be covered bythe release o f
the internal debt tranche. The payments in 2006 and 2007 would have to be financed by the
Government under tight budget constraints: the repayment obligations each year are estimated to
represent roughly 3% o f Government's revenues, which i s difficult but manageable (see Table 2).
Inaddition, the Government revenues are expected to increase from 10.6% of GDP in2005 to
11.5%in 2006, and 11.9% in2007, which i s roughly a US$140 million increase each year. The
Government i s currently in the process o f planning for the 2006 State budget, to be concluded
before end-2005, and i s in close consultations with the staffs o f the Bank and the IMF inorder to
find a feasible solution. To mitigate the risk of the Government not being able to meet its
repayment obligations, however, the Government has started discussions with other donors to
seek additional financing. A debt buy back operation by a commercial bank involving a MIGA
guarantee i s also under consideration.

                                       VI.      CONCLUSION

27.    All conditions for the release of the civil service retirement and internal debt tranches of
the Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit have been met. Overall execution of the
Government's economic program i s satisfactory, and the macroeconomic framework i s
consistent with the objectives o f the program.       Implementation o f and preparations for the
programs supported by this credit are satisfactory. The Government o f the Democratic Republic
o f Congo has therefore been advised that the civil service retirement floating tranche, in an
amount o f SDR 32.1 million, and the internal debt floating tranche, in an amount o f SDR 28.8
million, are now available for disbursement.




                                                  9


                                                  Annex
                 Status of Executionof Letter of DevelopmentPolicy as of June 2005


 A-1.    Performance in execution o f policy measures contained in the Letter o f Development
 Policy (LDP) has been broadly satisfactory despite a difficult security and political environment.
 Implementation progress has been made in diverse areas such as preparation o f the full PRSP,
 demobilization and reinsertion o f former combatants, civil service management reforms, public
 expenditure management, public enterprise reforms, social sector and rural development, and
 infrastructure. In some areas, notably mining and forestry, the Government has made less
 progress and some reforms are delayed. A summary o f progress i s outlined below according to
 the main areas o f the Letter o f Development Policy: (A) poverty; (B) maintaining peace and
 improving governance; (C) Financial sector, (D) Private sector development, (E) public
 enterprise reform; (F) natural resources management; (G)social sectors; (H) agriculture and rural
 development; and (I)     infrastructure.

 A.      Poverty

 A-2.    The preparation o f the PRSP is inprogress according to the revised plan. The community
 consultations for the entire country were completed in April 2005. The results will feed into the
 Provincial PRSPs under preparation. The sectoral consultations have been completed, and the
 first draft o f sectoral and thematic strategies was shared with the development partners. The first
 draft o f the PRSP based on comments made by the JSA was completed in March 2005 as
planned. The 1-2-3 survey on employment, the informal sector, and household consumption i s
underway. However, since the launching o f this survey was delayed, it i s now likely that the
results will not be incorporated into the initial full PRSP which is planed to be adopted before
end 2005. The completion and a year o f satisfactory execution o f the full PRSP is a HIPC
completion point trigger.


B.       MaintainingPeaceandImprovingGovernance

A-3. Security sector reform is supported through the national Demobilization,Disarmament,
and Reinsertion (DDR) program, launched in December 2003, The institutional structure to
steer and implement the national program was established and the DDR program finalized in
January 2004 after consultations and national dissemination. After some delay, the disarmament
and demobilization phase has begun in March 2005, and the reinsertion and reintegration phase
will start by September 2005. World Bank financing supports the demobilization, reinsertion
and reintegration parts for the DDR program. Security sector reform activities are financed by
other donors.

A-4.     As concrete steps to fight against corruption and efforts to improve governance, a
decree on a Code o f Good Conduct for Civil Servants and a law against money laundering and
financing o f terrorism were enacted. While the Code i s being publicized all around the country, a
financial intelligence unit for anti-money laundering has been established, and the law's
implementing decrees are being prepared, The anti-corruption law has been adopted by the
Parliament inNovember 2004 and promulgated inMarch2005.


                                                   10

 A-5.   There has been significant progress in public expenditure management under the
 Government's program. The public expenditure classification has been completely revised in
 conformity to international standards, Modernization and streamlining o f public expenditure
 procedures were achieved by end 2003. The progress made allows the government to analyze its
 expenditures better, as well as to disseminate the budget execution results for improved
 transparency. A poverty expenditure monitoring committee, which verifies the progress made in
 combatingpoverty, was established in2003. In2004, the government started the production o f
 budget execution reports using the new economic, administrative, and functional classifications.
 The reports also present budget execution results o f poverty-related spending and HIPC-financed
 expenditures. However, further improvements in budget reporting are necessary. A simpZiJied
 double-entry accounting system at the Treasury Directorate should be implemented by mid 2005.
 (Production o f quarterly budget execution reports and adoption o f a full-fledged double-entry
 accounting system are HIPC completion point triggers),

 A-6.   A Country Financial Accountability Assessment was conducted in 2005.                  The
 preliminary draft shows that the country has made progress inthe area o f financial accountability
 since the Transition govemment took power, but there are still many reforms that need to be
 implemented. Urgent reforms include modernizing the legal andregulatory structure, makingthe
budget preparation cycle more in synch with the fiscal year, decrease extra-budgetary and
 emergency expenditures, improve the accuracy and frequency o f budget execution reports,
 strengthen administrative and legal monitoring and sanctions, enhance human capital, rehabilitate
the capacity to manage debt, and provide adequate equipment and tools for the civil servants to
 carry out their jobs. The draft will be presented to the Government ina workshop inmid-2005.

A-7.    A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was conducted in 2003 with the
World Bank assistance, and the Government adopted its action plan in September 2004. The
steering committee - Commission de Rkforme des March& Publics (COREMAP) - was created
inOctober 2004 andthe Executive Secretary was appointed inMarch2005. The process to select
(i) consultants who will propose a new legal and institutional framework and (ii) consultants who
will conduct the assessment o f the procurement capacity is close to be completed.            The
preparation, adoption and implementation o f the new procurement code and its principal
application decrees, a HIPC completion point trigger, are planned for 2005 - 2006.

A-8.    Payroll reforms are also underway: the payroll system procedures were audited in o f
2004; a simplified transitional payroll system is expected to be operational by October 2005 with
the help o f French Cooperation; discussions are underway to introduce a full-fledged system o f
managing the civil service administration and payroll.

A-9.    Civil service management reforms started with institutional studies o f selected
ministries. A civil service census has been conducted inKinshasa, and the results are expected to
be available in June 2005. The census o f the rest o f the country will be launched inthe second
half o f 2005 after the Kinshasa results are analyzed and necessary modifications and
improvements on census technique are made.             Meanwhile, surveys of service users and
providers (Institutional and Governance Review) in the entire country, focusing on territorial
administration, health, education and justice, have been carried out and the draft report issued.
The final report will be formally delivered to the client inJune 2005.



                                                 11

A-10. Decentralizationis an important responsibility placed on the Transition government by
the peace accord. A draft law on territorial organization was prepared by the Government, ledby
the Ministry o f Interior, and has been submitted to Parliament. The World Bank supported a
parliamentary review o f the draft law in September 2004. However, since then discussions
towards the adoption have not moved forward.

A-11. Judicial reformis underway as indicated inthe LDP. A review ofthe Congolesejudicial
system has been completed with a broad EU diagnostic report presented in November 2004.
Outcomes o f the review will serve to finalize the action plan after they have beenvalidated in a
workshop to be organized in2005.

A-12, Financial sector reforms to modemizing and strengthening the legal and regulatory
framework are being implementedwith the support o f the IMF:new laws governing the Central
Bank, commercial banks, and savings institutions were enacted (2002). The Central Bank has
continued to implement its action plan aiming at strengthening its administrative and
management capabilities. Rehabilitation o f Bukavu and Kisangani branches are underway with
the support of the Bank (PUSPRES). Furthermore, the Central Bank undertook studies on the
issuance o f new bank notes, and it issued new instructions defining the conditions for the
licensing and management o f microfinance institutions. Following an audit, five commercial
banks adopted a restructuring plan approved by the Central Bank, and two were closed, bringing
the total ofbanks inliquidationto five.

A-13. Private Sector Development has focused on judicial reform, improving the investment
climate (e.g., taxation, labor regulations, administrative procedures affecting business), and
reduction o f public debt owed to domestic private sector. The principal reforms have been the
adoption o f new investment and labor codes (2002), the creation o f commercial tribunals (2002),
the designation of personnel to work at the commercial tribunals (2003 and ongoing), the
creation o f and support to a national arbitration center (June 2003), the establishment o f the
investment promotion agency (2002), and the installment o f a Single Customs Window (Guichet
Unique) at the Port o f Matadi (2003). Taxation has been improved by the publication o f new
customs tariffs (2002-2003) and customs code (June 2004), the elimination o f certain fiscal and
parafiscal levies (2003), the preparation o f an action plan for reform o f direct and indirect
taxation o f firms (2004). The government has adopted in 2004 some o f the main application
decrees for the new labor code and has completed the preparatory work for the adoption o f the
OHADA legislation. The DRC has also become a member o f the African Trade Insurance
Agency. A comprehensive audit was undertaken in 2004 o f business-related administrative
procedures, The government has also moved to reduce the weight o f domestic debt on the
business community: an action plan was prepared to resolve problems o f intemal debt based on
the audit ofthe government arrears to theprivate sector (2004, see main text).

C.     PublicEnterpriseReform

A-14. Public enterprise reform began in September 2001, followed by the creation o f a Public
Enterprise Reform Commission (COPIREP) in 2002, and the nomination o f an executive
secretary and two deputies in 2003. COPIREP has delivered to the Government the accounting
and operational audits o f certain enterprises (2003), formed sectoral working groups (2004) that
are preparing the reform o f public enterprises in these sectors. As a result o f these audits, the


                                                 12

  Government has restructured GECAMINES (see para. below) and has re-trenched some 3500
 workers from the national post and Telecomm Company. The Government has also instituted
 the Telecomm regulatory commission.           Finally, new judicial and regulatory frameworks on
 public enterprises and private/public partnerships have been prepared by the Government and are
 now being considered inParliament.

 D.      Natural Resources Management

 A-15. In the forestry sector, a new code was adopted in 2002, and its application decrees are
 being prepared. Basedon the new code, a moratorium onnew logging contracts was imposed, some
 existing contracts inconsistent with this new code were cancelled (2002), and the list o f cancelled
 contracts was published. In addition, the new area tax is being collected and Ministry o f
 Environment is about to cancel the remaining non-compliant contracts, while the Ministry o f
 Finance intends to transfer soon to local governments their share o f forestry revenues. A new
 application decree which stipulates the principles for the review o f forestry concessions is being
 prepared. The new decree will make the use o f an independent observer mandatory, include
 representatives o f other ministries as well as Ministry o fEnvironment inthe review committee, and
 banexceptions that would make verification o fcompliance difficult.

 A-16. Inthe mining sector, a new code was also adopted (2002), its application decrees were
 prepared (2003), publicized, and distributed nationwide (2004).      The financial management o f
 the mining cadastre is being restructured, An arbitration commission on validation o f mining
 titles was created as planned in2003, but stopped activities because it was notjudged sufficiently
 independent. The cleanup o f mining titles will begin once this commission becomes operational
 after the members are nominated and confirmed. The restructuring o f GCcamines has proceeded
with a diagnostic audit leading to a presentation o f options for restructuring, and the final report
was submitted in November 2003. A voluntary departure program for excess workers was
completed in January 2004. The examination o f existing agreements and preparation o f statutes
o f a new company, to have been completed by June 2004, are ongoing: the restructuring strategy
has been validated at the government level; a management contract has been negotiated with an
international firm and is to be signed before August 2005. The finalized strategy i s to be adopted
bythe Parliament before the implementation begins inmid2005.

E.       Social sectors

A-17. In health sector, the government policy and efforts focused on the revitalization o f
health care centers so as they can provide essential and basic services to a maximum o f the
Congolese population. To that end the Government have signed service contracts expeditiously
with eight execution agencies/NGOs           for the Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Project (PMURR), in order to achieve visible results in improving basic service
delivery, notably towards mother and child diseases prevention and, malaria by the provision o f
bed nets and child vaccination. On the basis o f the PER 2004 conclusions about the resources
transferred to the operational level and, the low frequentation rate o f the health centers by the
population despite investments done by the donors, important discussions have been engaged on
how to increase the accessibility o f the population to health services. A more comprehensive,
inclusive and transparent budget preparation, processing and transfer to operational levels, is
underway. The country health status report has been finalized in December 2004 and will be


                                                   13

 disseminated duringthe summer. A sectoral strategy will be prepared by 2006, which will guide
 efforts to reform the regulatory andbudgetary framework o f the sector (thisi s a H P C completion
 point trigger).

 A-18. On the HIV/AIDS, as part o f the Government efforts to address the growingthreat posed
 by the epidemic, a National HIV/AIDS/STDs strategic plan has been adopted in 1999. Its
 objective i s to contribute to slowing the spread o f HIV/AIDS and mitigating its impact on
 families, communities and productive sectors. The reform introducedin 2003 has beenthe move
 from a health care vision to a multi-sectoral approach that involves a wide range o f actors in
 various spheres o f the DRC society (public, private, confessional and communities). The
 Government strategy i s based on a a 3 interrelated pillars: the prevention for reducing all
 transmission risks; the treatment and improvement o f quality live o f those already infected by a
 free distribution o f ARVs and the socio-economic mitigation o f the epidemic impact on
 vulnerable groups. Provision o f free ARVs i s being implemented throughout the country,
 however it i s important that the Government found a sustainable solution to the financial charges
 that the persons living with HIV/AIDS have to face with for the biological exams they should do
 every quarter.

 A-19. The education sector has completed a first phase o f emergency rehabilitation with
 assistance from the World Bank and the second phase i s on target. Results in the first phase
 include 140 schools rehabilitated through the education component o f the Emergency Multi-
 sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (EMRRP). An additional US$5 million for
 rehabilitationin education was provided through EMRRP's Community Development and Social
 Protection components; and a further US$11 million from the PSRE, PURR and PUSPRES (for
 all levels: primary school to university).The second phase o f rehabilitation will be supported by
 the EMRRP and a new Education Sector Project under preparation in2005. The new project will
 also provide resources to initiate broader reform, o f the institutional, regulatory and budgetary
 framework o f the sector. Government is developing the sectoral strategy and expects to complete
 this in2006, as targeted inthe LDP (this is a H P C completionpoint trigger). The strategy will
 also guide finalization o f the PRSP, and draws from the country education status report, now
disseminated, and the action plan for "Education for All." Using HIPC funds for 2005,
Government i s piloting grant transfers to primary and secondary schools to finance frais de
fonctionnement, thereby offsetting some fee costs for households.

A-20. Inthe area o f social protection, a qualitative risk and vulnerability study was conducted
(2003). A global program for social protection was developed based on the completed studies,
and has beenfinalized.

F.       Agriculture and RuralDevelopment

A-21. The target o f increasing output in agriculture has been addressed by a seed program
(begun in 2002 and in progress), rehabilitation of 850 hectare of irrigated land by 2005
(ongoing), and studies to improve aviculture, small livestock raising, fish farms, and local fishing
(launched in 2004 and in progress). Improvement in access to local markets through
rehabilitation o f 5000 km o f rural tracks started in 2004 and i s scheduled to last through June
2005. The first phase o f the program, supported under the PMURR, covers approximately 1200
km, and is scheduled to be completed by December 2005. The introduction of an information


                                                 14

system on market prices for agricultural products is underway. The Government i s developing a
rural strategy, which is to be completed in 2006. The adoption of this strategy i s a HPC
completionpoint trigger.

G.     Infrastructure (Roads, electricity, and water)

A-22. On infrastructure, the LDP focuses on two main objectives: (i)rehabilitation and
maintenance o f existing infrastructure and (ii)legal and regulatory framework reforms. An
international firm was selected in2002 to manage the infrastructure components o f the PMURR,
and technical design studies were launched in 2003. Road works are underway since 2004 and
scheduled to last through 2006, following the selection and mobilization o f contractors through
international competitive bidding. Inurban infrastructure, the execution o f two important works
(Kasa-Vubu urban rehabilitation and Selembao erosion works) began in 2004 and i s expected to
end in late 2005. Other transportation infrastructure works are about to start with a slight delay.
Inelectricity, a studyon the state of SNEL installations was completed inJuly2004, andurgent
works on rehabilitating production capacity at 600 megawatts are to be conducted in2005-2007.
Inwater, selectedpublic rehabilitationwork has started, andwill continue through 2006.

A-23. Since 2003, new legal and regulatory frameworks for the petroleum, energy, and water
sectors are being prepared. The Ministry o f Energy began this work before COPIREP started to
supervise the activity, and the two institutions have now taken the work up together.




                                                 15

