Page  1
 1
27653 
 
P
ROJECT 
I
NFORMATION 
D
OCUMENT
 
Project Name 
Democratic Republic of the Congo–Post-Reunification Economic 
Recovery Credit 
Region 
Africa Regional Office 
Sector 
Multisectoral 
Project
  
P082443 
Borrower(s) 
Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
Implementing Agency  
Ministry of Finance 
 BP 
12997 
 Kinshasa 
I 
 
République Démocratique du Congo 
 
Fax :  
243 88 02 381 
 
Environment Category 
U 
Date PID Prepared 
January 16, 2004 
Projected Appraisal
 
Date
 
December 2003 
Projected Board Date 
February 26, 2004 
 
A. 
Country Background and Recent Developments 
1.      
The DRC is potentially one of Africa’s richest economies, with extensive forest, 
mineral, and energy resources. Its regional importance, with its large labor force and 
potential market size, extensive navigable inland waterways and land links to nine states, 
make the DRC a potential motor for regional growth as significant as Nigeria or South 
Africa. 
2.      
However, this promise has been repeatedly thwarted. Successive governments 
have been able neither to translate this potential into satisfactory living conditions for the 
Congolese people nor to discourage corruption by special interests. As the State slowly 
collapsed in the last decade of the regime of Mobuto Sese Seko (1965-97), much of the 
productive capital was abandoned or destroyed. Per capita income declined steadily from 
about US$380 in 1985 to US$250 in 1990 and to US$85 in 2000. Civil conflict from 
1998 to 2002 contributed to more than 3 million deaths and extensive physical damage. It 
led to extensive exploitation of resources and loss of endemic species in some regions; 
uncontrolled mining, forestry and poaching of rare animals in insecure areas were 
responsible for extensive environmental damage as well as reported uses of forced labor. 
While institutions and the economy are beginning to recover in the western and southern 
part of the country, those in the east and north are in shambles. The potentially rich DRC 
is instead one of the poorest countries in the world and its social indicators are among the 
worst in Africa. 
Page  2
 2
Progress towards peace and reconciliation 
3.      
Progress towards peace and reconciliation has accelerated. Since January 2001, 
the Congolese authorities have taken a number of important steps to implement the 1999 
Lusaka Peace Accord and the 2002 Sun City inter-Congolese dialogue, to liberalize 
political life and to address key economic issues. A UN peacekeeping force was deployed 
throughout the country in 2002. The withdrawal of foreign troops was completed by end 
2002, and relations normalized with the countries that formerly supported rebel 
movements. While localized ethnic violence continues in specific districts, UN forces are 
beginning to stabilize these regions. 
4.      
Political negotiations between the Government, armed groups, political 
opposition, and civil society culminated in an agreement on a power-sharing arrangement 
for a transition period leading to elections within 24 to 30 months, and in the appointment 
on June 30, 2003 of an all-inclusive Government of national unity with representation of 
all key armed groups, unarmed opposition and civil society. The command structure of 
the combined armed forces has been reunited and some regional military commanders 
have been appointed and taken their posts, even in reunified provinces. The new 
Government is now functioning (with leaders of the two main armed groups serving as 
Vice Presidents), which puts an end to the violent division of the country and creates a 
political environment conducive to economic and social reunification.  
Economic Reforms 
5.      
The Government is satisfactorily implementing an economic program supported 
since 2001 by IDA and the IMF. In September 2002, the Paris Club granted debt relief on 
Naples terms, and in July 2003, DRC reached the decision point under the enhanced 
HIPC Initiative. London Club negotiations began in February 2003. In-depth structural 
reforms have been launched in the areas of economic governance, public expenditure 
management, poverty reduction, transparency, financial sector and public enterprises 
reform, and local and foreign investment, among others. In the mining and forestry 
sectors, new codes supported by IDA have established a new environment, one 
promoting the competitive and transparent development of these important sectors for the 
benefit of all the people of Congo, including future generations. After years of decline, 
the economy grew at 3 percent in 2002 and at an estimated 5 percent in 2003. 
6.      
Fiscal revenues have risen from only 5.1 percent of GDP in 2000 to 8.3 percent in 
2003. The Government has focused its efforts on reform of the customs and excise 
administration (also to reduce incentives for corruption) and on rationalizing the tax and 
customs codes, to eliminate exemptions and deferrals, and to simplify enforcement 
through centralized procedures. Rationalization of the codes and elimination of para-
fiscal levies will encourage many firms that hid in the informal sector in the past 20 years 
to choose an easier path of fiscal compliance, broadening the tax base. 
7.      
The tax base remains narrow and highly concentrated, government administration 
remains weak particularly in the Eastern regions, the financial situation remains 
precarious with civil servants grossly underpaid—and those in the reunified provinces 
unpaid for six years—and most government services function on a survival basis. An 
“overhang” of civil servants past retirement age but not released due to lack of funding 
Page  3
 3
for the legal transition indemnities discourages renewal of the civil service. The sizeable 
government debt to individuals and particularly to the private sector imposes a brake on 
private sector recovery and growth, while the continued accumulation of arrears on 
payments to public utilities by their largest customer, the central government, continues 
to pose problems for the reform and restructuring of this important sector. 
Social Situation 
8.      
The social situation remains alarmingly difficult. Social indicators, already low 
before the war, have dropped further in recent years. The budgetary restriction required 
for the Government to break hyperinflation and restore economic stability leaves scant 
fiscal resources for alleviating the suffering of the people. The civil service pay scale has 
fallen to about $8 to $0.80 a month. A study by the World Health Organization and 
UNICEF revealed that the vast majority of the population live on the equivalent of 
US$0.20 per person per day, and consume less than two thirds of the daily calories 
needed to maintain good health. Approximately 70 percent of the population has little or 
no access to health care. 
Economic Prospects  
9.      
With the support of the international community, the Government has 
implemented a number of important economic reform measures over the last period: (i) 
elimination of distortions in the foreign exchange market; (ii) liberalization of prices and 
the abolition of monopolies in certain sectors; (iii) budgetary, fiscal, and judicial reforms; 
(iv) taking up the fight against corruption and for promotion of good governance; and (v) 
sector reforms (new mining and forestry codes). These reforms have enabled the DRC to 
(i) break hyperinflation through prudent fiscal and monetary policies; (ii) implement a 
policy environment supportive of economic growth and private sector activity; (iii) re-
establish the conditions for investment and security of goods and persons; (iv) establish 
the conditions for economic reconstruction and recovery; (v) resume dialogue with 
external donors; and (vi) tackle the monumental external debt problem. The program has 
been assiduously implemented. 
10.       Since 2002 the Government has been implementing an I-PRSP based on wide 
consultations with civil society and community groups. The I-PRSP rests upon three 
pillars: (i) restoration and consolidation of peace and sustainable good governance; (ii) 
macroeconomic stabilization and pro-poor growth; and (iii) community dynamics 
(community-led development initiatives). The Government has been developing its full 
PRSP, but the execution of the development plan for the PRSP has been hampered by 
lack of financing for essential components, particularly a reasonably representative and 
participative nationwide poverty survey (in a country which has never had a nationwide 
household survey.) 
11.       Under the impetus of the Inter-Congolese dialogue and the reunification process, 
the Government has extended and deepened this program. The Government of Transition 
is charged with the complex political process of institutional reunification coupled with 
decentralization of tasks and finances to local levels to be both responsive and 
accountable to the people, within a reunified national system. To achieve this it must 
Page  4
 4
maintain stability (in domestic security, political and social rights and the economy), 
continue the reforms already underway, and prepare the people of the DRC and 
particularly its own administration for the tasks of reconstruction and development that 
lie ahead. 
B. 
Bank and donor reengagement 
12.       Donors have steeply increased their support to the DRC. Consultative Group (CG) 
meetings have been re-established by IDA: a pre-CG was held in May 2002 and full CGs 
were held in December 2002 and 2003. Nearly all bilateral donors have announced 
significant increases in financial aid over the period 2003-2006, with a particular focus on 
poverty reduction and post-conflict reconstruction. Significant programs are being 
implemented, in particular: (i) the US$1.7 billion Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation 
and Reconstruction Program, which defines a broadly-endorsed multi-donor priority 
investment program for infrastructure rehabilitation and support to social services 
delivery; (ii) the US$500 million Multi-country Demobilization and Reinsertion Program, 
which coordinates partner efforts in breaking the conflict cycle through a transition of 
armed groups either into the national armed forces or back into civilian life; (iii) a variety 
of projects throughout the territory, and in particular in the Eastern and Northern 
provinces; and (iv) a substantial amount of technical assistance and other institutional 
strengthening activities. 
13.       The DRC was granted access to the PRGF facility of the IMF in June 2002; in 
September 2003 the European Union (EU) provided grant financing of €205 million for 
the period 2003-2007 under EDF 9, adding to the €120 million from EDF 8 already 
dedicated to support the Government’s strategy; and the African Development Fund has 
followed up grant assistance with additional project and program assistance, including an 
Economic Recovery and Reunification Assistance Program providing SDR 47.5 million 
in support for key activities and to complement assistance provided under this Credit. 
14.       The objective of the Bank’s activities is to contribute to the transition to peace and 
stability in the DRC and the sub-region. Support has been framed within the context of a 
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS, July 2001) and aimed to: (i) meet basic and urgent 
needs; (ii) rebuild effective public institutions and policies; (iii) revitalize economic 
activity and (iv) rebuild implementation capacity. A new TSS, developed in parallel with 
this Credit, builds on the achievements of the last two years with a view to deepening 
support in four key areas: (i) 
social stability and security
, including the need for 
Government rapidly to establish the institutions to support a program of demobilization, 
disarmament and reinsertion (DDR) and for reform of the combined army, and for the 
donor community to support such a program; (ii) 
shared economic growth
, including 
deepening of ongoing economic reforms, re-establishment of pay systems for public 
servants, and support to a competitive private sector; (iii) 
capacity and governance
, 
including transparency, equitable enforcement of regulations, clarification of roles 
between levels of government, and continuation of reforms in the natural resource sector; 
and (iv) 
social development,
 including additional resources for education, health and 
community self-help activities. 
Page  5
 5
15.       The IDA Economic Recovery Credit supported reforms in a wide number of areas 
including forestry and mining, labor law, and investment climate. At the same time, the 
Early Emergency Recovery Project, which was financed through an IDA Grant, and the 
Emergency Multisectoral Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (EMRRP) are 
financing emergency rehabilitation of key infrastructure that will directly benefit the 
population. Continuing the support of the rehabilitation and reform program, an 
Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Program (August 2003) is, 
among other objectives, preparing for the extension of the EMRRP to formerly occupied 
areas. A Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project provides support to 
reform of key state-owned enterprises and is supporting measures to promote the 
competitiveness of the Congolese economy. Capacity building training has been provided 
by the World Bank Institute, and through technical assistance under the Public 
Expenditure and Financial Accounting program, to support the Government’s efforts at 
redefining the roles of the various levels of Government. 
C. 
The Proposed Credit 
16.      
Objectives.
 The main objective of the proposed Post-Reunification Economic 
Recovery Credit (PRERC) is to provide the Government with balance of payments 
support in the post-reunification context, so as to facilitate the implementation of urgent 
reforms in critical areas: (i) supporting the continued implementation of economic 
reforms throughout the country; (ii) supporting public service reform, and in particular 
the retirement of staff having reached retirement age; (iii) further deepening the process 
of debt reduction and restructuring begun under the ERC, in terms of both settling 
internal arrears and preventing the accumulation of new arrears. 
17.      
Design. 
The Credit, in an amount of SDR 135.2 million (US$200 million 
equivalent), will be used as follows: (i) the first tranche, in an amount of US$85 million, 
will be made available at effectiveness; (ii) a floating tranche of US$ 47.5 million will 
help the Government pay end-of-service indemnities to delayed retirees in support of 
civil service reform; (iii) a floating tranche of US$ 42.5 million will support a program of 
repayment of government debt to domestic creditors; and (iv) a floating tranche of 
US$ 25 million for supporting the reform of utilities’ billing and payment systems. The 
three floating tranches are mutually independent. 
D. 
Benefits and Risks 
Benefits  
18.       The potential benefits of support to the DRC in the form of the proposed PRERC 
largely outweigh the high level of risk. From a macroeconomic standpoint, the Credit 
would support policies to continue to stabilize and revive the economy. The civil service 
and internal debt tranches will provide support to improved management of the delivery 
of social services, and to the re-launch of a competitive private sector. The second benefit 
is that the Credit will provide content to the national program to improve governance and 
reduce corruption. 
Page  6
 6
Risks
 
19.       A 
renewed default
 is possible despite HIPC assistance if Government’s cash 
flow is insufficient for debt service: civil service salaries continue to be miniscule, and 
the social and political pressure to increase them is strong and growing. Revenues are 
growing, but there is no certainty that they will rise to the point where such expenditures 
can all be met in the medium term, nor may it be desirable, given the pressing unmet 
social needs of the impoverished country. Donor 
failure to maintain the current high 
levels of assistance
 could hinder the Government’s ability not only to service its debt, 
but also to reconstruct its administrative and economic infrastructure, and rehabilitate 
some of the social services. This would also exacerbate poverty and social distress. To 
mitigate these two sources of risk, continued high levels of donor support are required in 
the medium term. IDA is working with other donors to assure a continued high level of 
donor financing, and is providing guidance for the measures that will make permanent the 
debt service reduction that followed the HIPC Decision Point. 
20.       The Government’s 
weak institutional and administrative capacity
 could lead to 
delays in the implementation of key measures. These delays might be significant in the 
reform of the civil service, affecting release of these tranches and the effectiveness of the 
programs supported. 
Fiduciary risks
 are considerable, but the government is making 
substantial efforts to mitigate them through its various efforts to strengthen public sector 
financial management with assistance from IDA and the IMF. IDA and donors are 
providing technical assistance for capacity building. 
21.       The establishment of an interim government and the channeling of political 
conflict into the electoral process has reduced the risk of 
renewed conflict
. Nevertheless, 
violence continues in one region and other may continue for several years to come. As 
the UN Security Council has increased the size and the mandate of the peacekeeping 
forces, the danger of renewed nation-wide conflict appears to be greatly reduced. 
22.       Finally, the conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the population 
displacements within its borders and the impoverishment and suffering associated with 
regional conflict
 are not entirely amenable to national policies and programs, but are 
linked to conflict in neighboring countries. The natural resource plunders across borders 
and, more generally, the poor reputation in the minds of international investors 
concerning the region as a whole are also linked to the regional conflict. Regionalization 
of other conflicts would exacerbate all other risks. A regional approach to conflict 
resolution and development must be continued resolutely to manage this risk. 
 
Contact Point: 
Task Manager 
 
Eric R. Nelson 
The World Bank 
1818 H St NW, MSN J7-703 
Washington, DC 20433 
Phone (202) 
473-6699 
Fax: (202) 
473-8466
Page  7
 7
 
