                                            DOCUMENT      OF
                                          THE WORLD BANK


                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                              REPORT 27720
                                                                                         No:




                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                  ON A PROPOSED CREDIT

                          INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 135.2MILLION

                              (US$200MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                        DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

                                               FOR A

             POST-REUNIFICATION ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT



                                          JANUARY    30,2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Country Department 9
Africa Regional Office


This documenthas a restricteddistributionand maybe usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  SDR 1.OO =US$1.4793
             US$l.OO =Francs Congolais 417
                    December 31,2003

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1to December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     AU AfricanUnion
     CG Consultative Group
   DDR Demobilization, DisarmamentandReinsertion
   DRC Democratic Republic o f Congo
    EDF European DevelopmentFund
EMRRP Emergency Multi-sector RehabilitationandReconstruction Project
    ERC Economic Recovery Credit
     EU EuropeanUnion
    FEC FCdCration des Entrepreneurs du Congo
   HIPC Highly Indebted Poor Countries
   IBRD InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
    IDA IntemationalDevelopmentAssociation
    IMF IntemationalMonetaryFund
 I-PRSP InterimPoverty ReductionStrategy Paper
 MDRP Multi-Country Demobilization andReintegrationProgram
  MIGA Multilateral InvestmentGuarantee Agency
MONUC Missiond'observation desNationsUnies au Congo
  OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OGEDEP Office de Gestionde la Dette Publique
    PER Public ExpenditureReview
  PREM Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PRERC   Post-ReunificationEconomic Recovery Credit
  PRGF Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility
   PRSP Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
 PSDCP Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project
    SDR Special Drawing Rights
  SNEL  Societe Nationale d'ElectricitC
    TSS Transitional Support Strategy


           Vice President:         Callisto Madavo
         CountryDirector:          Emmanuel Mbi
          Sector Manager:          Cadman Mills
       Task Team Leader:           Eric R.Nelson




                              i

                                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit
                                                                        to the
                                               Democratic Republic of Congo

                                                            Table of Contents

               IIntroductionandExecutiveSummary........................................................................
               I1.Country Backgroundand RecentDevelopments.......................................................
                .                                                                                                                                1
                . A                                                                                                                             2

                  B. Future Prospects................................................................................................... 3
                   . Recent Politicaland Economic Developments....................................................                              2


               I11.The Government's Medium-Term Reform Program................................................
                  C.  Macroeconomic Projections................................................................................. 4
                                                                                                                                                4
                  A. The I-PRSP, PRSP and Programo fReforms ......................................................                              4
                    I-PRSP and PRSP ...................................................................................................         4
                 B.Economic      reforms ...................................................................................................     5
                      Progress to Date................................................................................................... 6
                  C.                                                                                                                             6
                    Priorities for the coming year .................................................................................
                      Next Steps ............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                6

                    Beginning institutional and civil service reform.....................................................
                    Redefining the relationship between the various levels o f Government ................ 7
                                                                                                                                                 7
                    Internal debt ............................................................................................................   9
               IV. Donor Support ........................................................................................................       10
                 A .  Strategic Approach to Support Reunification ....................................................                          10
                  B. Debt Relief......................................................................................................... 11
                  C.  Increase in Donor and Partner Support ..............................................................                      11
               V.D .  Additional IDA Activities ................................................................................... 12
               VI.BankProposedCredit ...............................................................................................
                        Transitional Strategy to Support the Government's Program ........................                                      13
                   The                                                                                                                          14
                 A. Objectives and Design ..........................................................................................            14
                 B.Justification for the Proposed Credit.....................................................................                   15
                  C. Features and Content o f the Credit ........................................................................               15
                    Conditions for release o f the initial tranche ..........................................................                   15
                    Conditions for the release o f the floating tranches ...............................................                        15
                      Civil service retirement tranche .................................................................
                      Internal debt tranche .........................................................................................           16
                      Public utilities (centralized payments) tranche .................................................                         16
                 D Credit Implementationand InstitutionalArrangements........................................
                   .                                                                                                                            17
                 E.EnvironmentalAspects.........................................................................................                18
                 F Government Ownership and Participatory Approach............................................
                   .                                                                                                                            18
               VI11. Benefits and Risks................................................................................................         18
                 A. Benefits ..............................................................................................................     18
                 B.   Risks...................................................................................................................  18
               Annexes......................................................................................................................... 21
                1. Timetable o f K e y Processing Events



This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization                .        .

2. Letter of Development Policy (Government)
          EnglishTranslation
          French Original
3. Policy Matrix
          EnglishTranslation
          French Original
4. Social Indicators
5. Democratic Republic of Congo At a Glance
6. KeyEconomic Indicators
7. Status of Operations Approved Since 2001
8. World Bank-IMF Relations
   Country Map




                                      ...
                                      111

                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF CONGO
               POST-REUNIFICATIONECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT


                                  CREDITSUMMARY

Borrower:             Democratic Republic o f Congo
ImplementingAgency:   MinistryofFinance
Amount:               SDR 135.2 million (US$200.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:       0.50 percent on undisbursed Credit balances, beginning 60 days after
                      signing, less any waiver
Disbursement:         The proposed credit would be released in four tranches, the first o f
                      which would be o f about US$85 million; and three floating tranches,
                      one for US$47.5 million, US$42.5 million, and US$25 million.
                      Release o f the first tranche takes place immediately upon
                      effectiveness. The three floating tranches could be released in any
                      order when related triggers have been satisfied in respective program
                      areas.
Net PresentValue:     Not applicable
Map:                  IBRD31546
Project IDNo.:        PO82443
Background and        The proposed Post-Reunification Economic               Recovery Credit
Description:          (PRERC) i s consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy
                      (TSS) discussed by the Board on July 31, 2001 and i s an integral part
                      o f a new TSS to be discussed by the Board concurrently with this
                      credit on February 26, 2004. It would assist the Democratic Republic
                      o f Congo in its economic and social recovery, in the context o f the
                      Government's 2004-2005 Reform, Growth, and Poverty Reduction
                      Programs. Proceeds o f the proposed credit would provide funds
                      necessary to assist the Democratic Republic o f Congo with foreign
                      exchange needs.
Rationale for IDA     The Bank's involvement i s justified by the need to: (i)support
involvement:          policies that continue to stabilize and revive the economy while
                      introducing effective and transparent governance across a reunified
                      country with substantially greater demands on its resources; (ii)
                      improve the efficiency and integrity o f the civil service; and (iii)
                      encourage private sector investment and improvements in the
                      productive capacity o f the economy. The program supported by the
                      credit will support the deepening o f structural reforms, reunification
                      o f administrations, and the continued reform o f the public sector to
                      foster efficiency and enhance productive capacities. This operation i s
                      also part o f a coordinated effort by partners and international financial
                      institutions to help rehabilitate the country's social services.
Government/Country    Since January 2001, Government             has demonstrated       forceful
Commitment:           commitment to        macroeconomic      and structural reforms.       The



                                            iv

                      Government's track record o f sound economic policies and
                      performance has beenjudged satisfactory by two PRGF reviews and
                      various IMF missions, and as evidenced by implementation o f IDA-
                      supported programs. Exchange rates and prices have been liberalized.
                      New investment, labor, mining and forestry codes have been
                      approved. A law creating commercial courts has been published.
                      Public enterprises have been audited and many of the general
                      managers replaced. Commitment at the highest level o f the country's
                      leadership and the Government, as well as support from the civil
                      society has been demonstrated and reaffirmed on several occasions.
                      Since 2002 the Government has been implementing an I-PRSP based
                      on wide consultations with civil society and community groups, and
                      has been developing its full PRSP through a representative and
                      participatory process.
Benefits and Risks:   The Credit would support policies that stabilize the economy and
                      pave the way to environmentally and socially sustainable growth and
                      poverty reduction through a number o f interventions. The primary
                      risks-and    associated mitigating measures-are    (i)renewed internal
                      andor regional conflict, which i s reduced by UNintervention and by
                      a Bank-led multinational regional demobilization and reintegration
                      program; (ii) the DRC accruingnew arrears on external debt because
                      o f the increased debt service burden inthe short run, even though the
                      overall debt burden in NPV terms has been reduced greatly; (iii)     the
                      DRC losing international financial support, with consequences in the
                      country's ability to service debt as well as in financing necessary
                      spending on social and economic rehabilitation, which i s mitigatedby
                      IDA working with other donors to assure a continued high level of
                      donor financing and providing guidance for the measures, including
                      the PRSP process, that will make permanent the debt service
                      reduction that followed the HIPC Decision Point; (iv) insufficient
                      institutional capacity, which i s being addressed by technical
                      assistance and capacity-reinforcing activities provided by IDA, the
                      IMF, UNDP, AfDB, and others; and (v) private sector response
                      falling short o f expectation, which i s mitigated by activities by IDA
                      and other donors to improve the investment climate.




                                           V

                    Post-Reunification Economic Recovery Credit
                                             to the
                             Democratic Republic of Congo


                        I.INTRODUCTIONANDEXECUTIVE          SUMMARY
 1.      This document proposes a Credit o f SDR 135.2 million (US$200 million
equivalent) to the Democratic Republic o f Congo (DRC) to finance a Post-Reunification
Economic Recovery Credit.
2.       The proposed Credit follows inan earlier Economic Recovery Credit (ERC, Cr
3660-DRC) and i s intendedto provide needed balance o fpayments support as the
country, emergingfrom conflict andrecently reunified, re-establishes government
services inall provinces andworks towards rebuildingits economic and fiscal base. It i s
an integral part o f the Bank strategy inthe DRC, as outlined inthe Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS) endorsed by the Board on July 31,2001, andinthe new TSS that i s
presented to the Board at the same time as this operation. It will buildon the satisfactory
implementationto date o f the economic program supported by the Bretton Woods
Institutions. It will complement investment activities financed by a number o fmultilateral
andbilateral donors as well as by IDA, to support physical rehabilitation, competitiveness
andprivate sector growth. It is closely coordinatedwith the provision of a
complementarybalance o fpayment financing which has recently been approvedby the
African Development Bank.
3.       The Credit would consist o f an effectiveness tranche o fUS$S5 million plus three
floating tranches supporting (i) end-of-service program to accompany the
                                  an
Government's retirement program for delayedretirees insupport o f civil service reform
(US$47.5 million), (ii)   arrangements for repayment o f the Government's internal debt to
private creditors (US42.5 million), and (iii)    the reformo futilities billing andpayment
(US$25 million). The three floating tranches are mutually independent and canbe
released inany order when related triggers have been satisfied inrespective program
areas. The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity o f 40 years,
including a grace period o f ten years.
4.      The primary risks-and associatedmitigating measures-are          (i) renewedinternal
conflict, which i s reduced byUNintervention and by a Bank-ledmultinational regional
demobilization and reintegration program; (ii) DRC accruing new arrears on external
                                                  the
debt because ofits increased debt service burdeninthe short run;(iii) o f  loss
international financial support, with consequences inthe country's ability to service debt
and to finance necessary spending on social and economic rehabilitation; these are
mitigatedby IDA working with other donors to assure a continued highlevel o f donor
financing and providing guidance for measures, including the PRSP process, that will
make permanent the debt service reduction that followed the HIPC Decision Point; (iv)
insufficient institutional capacity, which i s being addressedby technical assistance and
capacity-reinforcing activities beingprovided by IDA, the IMF, UNDP, AfDB and
others; (v) the private sector response falling short of expectation, which i s mitigatedby
activities by IDA and other donors to improve the investment climate; and (vi) renewed



                                                1

regional conflict, which i s mitigatedby the international community's effort to take a
regional approachto conflict resolution and development.
5.       Actions supported by this operation will help the reunifiedeconomy's
rehabilitation and reconstruction, throughcontinued macro-economic stability and
improved govemance, new growth inprivate capital inflows and higher private
investment, and support to lay the grounds for civil service reform aimed at providing
more effective delivery o f social services. Stability and growth will support Congolese
efforts and progress toward national reconciliation and provide income-eaming
alternatives to violence for the poor.

                11.COUNTRYBACKGROUND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
                                              AND

6.       The DRC has a population o f around 58 million, distributedover 2.3 million
square kilometers (more than two thirds o f the EuropeanUnion), and growing at more
than 3 percent a year. The DRC i s potentially one o f Africa's richest economies, with
extensive forest, mineral, and energy resources. Its regional importance, with its large
labor force andpotential market size, extensive navigable inland waterways and land
links to nine states, makes the DRC a potential engine for regional growth as significant
as Nigeria or South Africa.
7.      However,this promisehas beenrepeatedly thwarted. Successive governments
have been able neither to translate this potential into satisfactory living conditions for the
Congolese people nor to discourage corruption by special interests. As the State slowly
collapsed inthe last decade o fthe regime o f Mobuto Sese Seko (1965-97), mucho f the
productive capital was abandoned or destroyed. Per capita income declined steadily from
about US$380 in 1985 to US$250 in 1990 and to US$85 in2000. From 1998 to 2002,
disease and deprivation related to civil conflict caused more than 3.3 million deaths and
extensive physical damage. It ledto extensive predation insome regions; uncontrolled
mining, forestry andpoachingo frare animals ininsecure areas caused extensive
environmental damage as well as reported uses o f forced labor. About half o f the country
(eastem and northem provinces) was administeredby a variety o f armed groups (some o f
them supportedby foreign allies). While institutions and the economy are beginning to
recover inthe westem and southem part o fthe country, those inthe east and north are in
shambles.The potentially rich DRC, victim o fthe "curse o fnaturalresources," is instead
one o f the poorest countries inthe world and its social indicators are among the worst in
Africa.

A.      Recent Political and Economic Developments
8.      Progress towards peace and reconciliation has accelerated in2003, within the
context ofthe 1999 Lusaka Agreement. Since January 2001, the Congolese authorities
have taken a number o f important steps to implement the 1999 Lusaka Peace Accord and
agreements reached through the inter-Congolese dialogue, to liberalize political life and
to address key economic issues. A UNpeacekeeping force, the Mission d'obsewation
des Nations Unies au Congo (MONUC) has been deployed throughout the country. The
withdrawal o f foreign troops was completed by end 2002, following agreements between
the DRC Government and the Governments o fRwanda (inJuly 2002) and Uganda (in
September 2002), and relations normalized with the countries that were involved inthe


                                              2

conflict. While localized ethnic violence continues inspecific districts, UNforces are
beginningto stabilize even these regions.
9.       Political negotiations betweenthe Government, armed groups, political
opposition, andcivil society culminated inan agreement on a power-sharing arrangement
for a transition period leading to elections within 24 to 30 months and inthe appointment
on June 30,2003 o f an all-inclusive Governmento fnational unitywith representation o f
all key armed groups, unarmedopposition, and civil society. The mediation o f the United
Nations and the African Union, as well as the support o fkeybilateral partners such as
South Africa were critical inthis process. The command structure o fthe combined armed
forces has been reunified and regional military commanders have been appointed and
taken their posts throughout the country. The new Government i s now fbnctioning (with
leaders o fthe two maingroups o f the former armed opposition servingas Vice
Presidents), which puts an endto the violent division o fthe country and creates a political
environment conducive to economic and social reunification.
10.      The Government is satisfactorily implementing an economic program, which has
been supported since 2001 by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund(IMF).
The economy grew at 3 percent in2002 and at an estimated 5 percent in2003, after years
o f decline. Fiscal revenues have risen from only 5.1 percent o f GDP in2000 to 8.3
percent for 2003. The debt burdeni s becoming less onerous as DRC was granted debt
relief on Naples terms by the Paris Club inSeptember 2002, andreached the Decision
Point under the enhanced HIPC Initiative inJuly 2003.
11.      Such progress has consolidated the window of opportunity for peace and recovery
inthe DRC, andcreated anopportunity for peace inthe entire CentralAfricanregion. It
has also increased the urgency of effectively reunifying the country. This effort will not
be sustainable unless it is accompanied by aprocess o f effective economic and social
reunificati0n-i.e.   the reintegration o f all provinces into a single and common economic
space.

B.       FutureProspects
12.      The reunified DRC can hamess important sources o frecovery and growth. With
implementation of a suitable investmentclimate, the DRC could achieve highlevels o f
growth over the next decade, generated not only through mineral andextractive
industries,butparticularly through resumptiono f services, agriculture, and construction
activities. Congolese businessmenand women have longbeen considered among the
most entrepreneurial inAfrica, and are responding to the creation o f a fiscal and
regulatory regimethat supports their efforts at investment, economic activity, and the
provision o f services.
13.      The process o fhamessingthese sources has only begunand faces constraints. The
tax base remains narrow andhighlyconcentrated, government administration remains
weak particularly inthe Eastern regions, the financial situation remains precarious with
civil servants grossly underpaid-and     those inthe reunifiedprovinces unpaid for six
years-and    most government services function on a survival basis. An "overhang" o f
civil servants past retirement age but not releaseddue to lack o f funding for the
indemnities they are entitled to discourages renewal o f the civil service. The sizeable



                                                 3

government debt to the private sector imposes a brake on private sector recovery and
growth, while the continued accumulation o f arrears by the central government on
payments to public utilities continues to pose problems for the reform and restructuring
o f this important sector.

C.        MacroeconomicProjections
14.       The macro-economic framework for the next three years i s basedon a projection
of strong growth inexports andpublic investment. Onthis basis, the growth rate would
rise from 5 percent in2003 to 6 percent in2004, and then to 7 percent inthe following
two years.
15.      Public finances have been improving. Over the period 2004 to 2006, revenues are
projected to rise steadily from 8.2 percent o f GDP to 11percent, while external grants are
expected to increase from 1.9 percent o f GDP to 8.8 percent. Public expenditurewould
rise sharply from 13.2 percent o f GDP in2003 to a projected 21.5 percent in2006,
primarilydue to a rapidrise inpublic investment,which increases to 11.5 percent o f GDP
in2006 compared to 2.6 percent in2003. This increasewouldbecoveredlargelyby
foreign financing inthe form o fnew credits and grants, as well as reliefunder the
enhanced HIPC Initiative. Although the overall fiscal deficit on a commitment base will
rise from 3.1 percent o f GDP in2003 to 4.3 percent in2004 before declining to 1.7
percent in2006, the primary balance will remainpositive throughout the period.
16.       Over the next three years, exports are projectedto grow by 12percent involume
terms, while imports are expected to grow at 25 percent in2004, 14 percent in2005, and
10 percent in2006. The current account deficit, excludingdebt relief and grants, i s
projected to rise from 10.7 percent in2003 to 16.7 percent in2006. However, grants and
debt reliefare expected to reduce the deficit to 3.5 percent in2003,4.7 percent in2005,
and 3.5 percent in2006. Underthis scenario, gross foreign exchange reserves would rise
from 5.3 weeks o f imports in2003 to 11.9 weeks in2006.
17.      Duringthe same period, the scheduled debt service, after the anticipatedHIPC
relief, would rise from 10 to 17 percent o f exports o f goods and services, but would fall
from 25 to 22 percent o f government revenues. As noted inthe HIPC Decision Point
document Tables 9 and 11,DRC faces an extremely difficult situation inthe first few
years following the Decision Point on account o fthe heavyburdenimposedbythe need
to settle post cut-off arrears, for which the relief granted i s much less than on pre-cut off
debt.

              111. THEGOVERNMENT'SMEDIUM-TERMREFORM                    PROGRAM

A.       The I-PRSP,PRSPandProgramof Reforms

I-PRSP and PRSP
18.      Since 2002, the Government has been implementing an I-PRSP based on wide
consultations with civil society and community groups. Although it was developedby a
previous government, the Inter-Congolese Dialogue and later the new Transition
Government endorsed this work. The I-PRSP rests upon three pillars: (i)       restoration and
consolidation o fpeace and sustainable good governance; (ii)      macroeconomic


                                               4

stabilization andpro-poor growth; and (iii)        community dynamics (community-led
developmentinitiatives).
19.      The Government has beendeveloping its full PRSP through a representative and
participatory process. With the allocation by the National Assembly o fUS$600,000 as
well as financing from several development partners,the funds necessary for these
activities are now available andthe work has beenunderway since October 2003. The
Joint Staff Assessments of the I-PRSP and the 2003 annual update have beenreviewedby
theBoardso fIDA andthe IMF.With efforts continuing at the current pace, the full
PRSP i s expected to be completedby the beginning o f the fourth quarter o f 2005.2

Economic reforms
20.      The Government has assiduously implemented a number o fimportant economic
reform measures with the support o f the international community. These reforms include:
(i)elimination o f distortions inthe foreign exchange market; (ii)          liberalization o fprices
and the abolition ofmonopolies incertain sectors (e.g. export o f diamonds); (iii)
budgetary, fiscal, andjudicial reforms; and (iv) takingup the fight against corruption and
for promotion o f good governance. These reforms have enabled the DRC to (i)                break
hyperinflation, as a result o fprudent fiscal andmonetarypolicies; (ii)           implement a policy
environment supportive o f economic growthandprivate sector activities; (iii)              re-establish
the conditions for investment (new miningand forestry codes) and security of goods and
persons; (iv) resume dialogue with donors; and (v) tackle the monumental external debt
problem.
21.      Under the impetus o f the Inter-Congolese Dialogue and the reunification process,
the Government has extended anddeepenedthis program. The Transition Government
has embarked upon the complex politicalprocess o f institutional reunification coupled
with decentralizationoftasks andfinances to local levels. To achieve this goal it needs to
maintainpolitical and economic stability and domestic security, as well as prepare the
people o f the DRC andparticularly its own administration for the tasks o f reconstruction
and development that lie ahead.
22.      The Government's medium-term development objectives are giveninits Letter o f
Development Policy and corresponding policy matrix (Annexes 2 and 3). Its economic
program for 2003-2005 covers (i)        peace and govemance (including demobilization and
reintegration, anticorruption, public expenditure management and public administration
reform, decentralization andjudicial sector reform), (ii)         the financial sector, (iii) private
sector development, (iv) the reform o fpublic enterprises, (v) naturalresources, (vi) the
social sectors (preparation o f sector strategies andimproving service delivery), (vii)
agriculture and the rural sector development, and (viii) infrastructure rehabilitation.



  The people o f DRC responded to the challenges o f survival over the past decades by developing their
  own ad hoc solutions making innovative use of whatever resources available. This capacity for social
  innovation and maintenance has strengthened with time, and this "community dynamics" has been
  identified inthe PRSP process as a buildingblock for any strategy for pro-poor growth and development.
  In addition to the importance o f the poverty-eradication orientation of the government strategy, a full
  year o f satisfactory implementation experience o f the PRSP would prepare the ground, and is required,
  for the HIPC Completion Point.


                                                     5

Through this program, the Governmentalso expects to be well advanced towards the
satisfactiono f HIPC Completion Point triggers at the endof 2005.

B.      Progress to Date
23.     With the support of IDA'S ERC (Cr 3660-DRC), the Government has
implementedbold measures to carry out its priority agenda, and to rehabilitate areas with
a strong impact on people. It has introduced a forestry code aimed at improving
governance inthe forestry sector and ensuring that the surrounding communities will
retain part o f the revenues. Productionforest (60 millionhectares) will be managed under
sustainable forest management plans after concessions to speculative interests covering
40 million hectares are returnedto public control for lease under the new code. Likewise,
the newminingcode establishes a legal framework to improvegovernance bypledging
full transparence inallocation ofpermits, reducingthe discretiono fGovernment agents,
promoting the disclosure o f information, ensuringa non-discretionary treatment o f all
operators, and returning a share o frevenues to local populations. These reforms are
expected both to attract foreign investors and to support local communities. Restructuring
of the state owned miningcompany GCcamines i s proceeding satisfactorily. The program
for the voluntary departure of about 10,000 redundant staff, agreed to by the firm's
management and unions, and supported under the ERC, i s beingimplemented. Inorder to
strengthenpublic expenditure management, the Government conducted financial audits
ofprovincial finances andpublic enterprises that have shownmismanagement, leadingto
replacement o f entire administrations. Three state-owned banks are inthe process o f
liquidation and a reform process for public enterprises i s underway with IDA support.
24.     The DRC is inthe process o f strengthening public expenditure management and
fiscal systems to address the needs o f its poorest people. The Government has strived to
reform the customs and excise administration (also reducing incentives to corruption) and
to rationalize the tax and customs codes, to eliminate exemptions and deferrals, and to
simplify enforcement through centralizedprocedures. Reforms affecting economic
competitiveness are underwaywith donor support, including IDA'SPrivate Sector
Development andCompetitiveness Project (PSDCP, Cr 3815). More generally, the
Government's track record o f sound economic policies andperformancehas beenjudged
satisfactory by two PRGFreview missions, which is important because it i s a prerequisite
to qualify for the Completion Point under the HPC initiative. This can come as early as
2006 ifthe PRSP i s completed ina timely manner by 2005, so that the country can have
one year o f satisfactory implementation experience as specified under the H P C
agreement.

C.      Next Steps

Prioritiesfor the comingyear
25.     The Government has expressedits commitment to economic and social
reunification and recovery as key conditions for the overall success o f the peace and
political reconciliation efforts. Inparallel to the complex political process that i s
underway, the Government has indicated its intention to move along a three-track
agenda: (i) keeping the economic reformprogram on track, with a particular attention to
absorbing the monetary and fiscal shocks expected from the process of economic and


                                                6

social reunification; (ii)restoring institutional unitywhile redefiningthe respective roles,
responsibilities, andresources o f the various levels o f Government; and (iii)   providing
rapid financial support inthe eastern and northem parts o fthe country with a view to
generating peace dividends and stabilizing the social situation, while laying the ground
for growth recovery. All major stakeholders have endorsed this agenda.
26.     To move ahead inthis direction, to face the twin challenges o f recovery and
reunification effectively, and to continue implementingmeasures included inthe Letter o f
Development Policy, urgent actions are needed inthe coming year, particularly in four
areas:

        0   redefining the relationship betweenthe various levels o f Government;

        0   beginning institutional and civil service reform;

        0   tackling the issue o f internal debt, which hampers private sector revival; and

        0   ensuringregular Govemment payments to keypublic suppliers, inparticular
            the water and electricity utilities.

Redefining the relationship between the various levels of Government
27.     The redefinition o f the roles, responsibilities, and resources o f the various levels
of Government would help efforts inbringingpublic service delivery to the community.
This will raise particular challenges as the revenuesources allocatedto each
decentralized level are poorly aligned with the responsibilities, as well as capabilities in
some cases, o f that level and the abilities to collect taxes efficiently and equitably. Efforts
at centralizing State receipts inthe general Treasury have ledto a reduction inthe
resources allocated to the provincial administrative units under the regulations providing
for retrocession to such units.
28.     These problems are starting to be addressedby a decentralization law drafted in
October-November 2003 that will be subjected to review by a broadly representative
conference (including the parliament, the administration, civil society, academics, and
political groups). The results will receive a trial implementation nationwide, and will be
revisedbased on experience before the end o fthe transition.
29.     A law on fiscal devolution andretrocession, also on atrial basis, will accompany
the decentralization law. The DRC has made several attempts since independence at
identifyingrevenuesources appropriate to each level o fgovernment andmatching them
to requirements, but immense disparities inrevenue capability byprovince require a
strong role for the central government to redistribute revenues through retrocession. It i s
likely that despite close monitoring, the transitionperiod will bemarkedby provincial
fiscal imbalances to which the central government would need to respond.

Beginning institutional and civil service reform
30.     Context. The reform o f public institutions, including the civil service, constitutes
one o fthe four pillars o f the Government's adopted strategy and action plan for restoring
public service delivery, improving governance, stopping the brain drain, and combating
corruption inthe DRC. The authorities are fully aware that a comprehensive reform o f
the public administration at the central and provincial levels i s required. Their approach i s


                                                7

focused on (i)   redefining the key missions o fpriority ministries andpublic service
agencies at the central andprovincial levels, as well as (ii)    upgrading the skill levels and
productivity o f their staffs. To this end, a strategy for "civil service reform and for
institutional capacity reinforcement" has been drafted in2003 with the technical
assistance o f a multi-donorprogram. Its priorities for the next two years are as follows:
            defining a strategic framework which begins at the center and provincial
            branches o f centralministries before movingto the provincial governments;
            performing an operational audit o fkey ministriesto leadto their
            reorganization;
            auditing service delivery mechanisms, especially at the local level, covering
            health, education, andjustice;
            establishing a modem personnel management system andpayroll system,
            basedon a comprehensive census o f civil servants and an audit o fthe payroll
            management system; and
            implementingan obligatory retirementprogram for those staffhavingpassed
            the legal age for retirement by end 2004.
31.     The case for the reform program i s compelling. Operational audits are neededto
help rationalize the structure o f government. The personnel andpayroll management
systems are inneedo f overhaul. A comprehensive and integratedpersonnel information
systemdoes not exist: inits place is amultitude o f administrative systems, some manual
and some computerized. The total number o f civil servants is known only approximately.
The salary payment process i s dispersed with several sources beingentitled to give
payment instructions. The Treasury directorate does not verify payment after instructions
to process salaries havebeenpassed to the Central Bank. Salaries are considered paid
whenpayrolls havebeenpassedto lower levels o f government for attribution and
disbursement, which means that salaries may not always reachtheir intended
beneficiaries. Approximately 74,000 civil servants (including 24,500 teachers but
excluding the newlyreunifiedterritories) who have already attained retirement age are
still working because the government cannot pay the end-of-service package to which
each retiree i s legally entitled. The continued presence o f so many retirees on the payroll
impedesthe advancement o fyounger staff and the hiringo fnew entrants.
32.     Implementation of this reform program started in2003, when the government
beganto: (i) an end-of-service package andcommencedthe formal retirement o f
              prepare
approximately 10,000 personnel already placed inretirement status without having
received a retirementpackage; (ii)    prepare a retirement program, phasedinsuch a way as
to ensure that lower echelon civil servants are assured coverage and that service provision
is protecteduntilreplacements can be trained; (iii)    prepare a civil service census inorder
to obtain accurate information on the number o f employees, their age, and their grade;
and (iv) audit and reform the salary payment process (andconsequently, to establish a
modem and secure personnel information and payroll system, to assure that civil servants
receive their pay, and to verify that there are no "ghost" workers). The outcomes o fthese
operations are expected for the end o f 2004 or early 2005.




                                                8

Internal debt
33.      Context. Over the last period, much progress has beenmade on tackling the
external debt: Paris Club rescheduling in2002 and progress under the enhanced HIPC
Initiative (paragraph 8) have greatly reduced the external debt service commitments o f
the DRC; London Club deliberations began inFebruary 2003 to address the US$833
millionbalance inexternal commercial debts.
34.      Inthe coming period, the Govemment will needto shift its focus to start tackling
the issue of intemal debt inorder to restore certainty to private investors as well as to the
providers o f essential public utilities, for whom the Government i s the largest customer.
Keysteps include:

    0    negotiating the clearance o f its existing debts to private enterprises and
         individuals; and

    0    establishing mechanisms to preventthe accumulationo fnewpayment arrears
         pertaining, inparticular, to water, electricity, petroleumproducts and
         telecommunications.

Clearance of existing debts andpayments arrears
35.      Debt to the private sector. Internal debt to private sector is divided into two
categories, those accrued before June 30,1997 by the previous regime, and those incurred
later up to a cutoff date set at December 31,2001, when the audit began. Pre-1997 arrears
have been certified by the Ministry of Finance andtheir dossiers transferred to the Debt
Management Agency, OGEDEP. An independent audit o fthese dossiers will be
concluded inJanuary 2004, and the final report i s expected inMarch2004.
36.      For internal debt incurred by the governments betweenJuly 1, 1997 and
December 31,2001, the independent auditor has certified claims inthe amount o f
US$209 million. For its part, the Congolese Entrepreneurs' Federation(FEC) has
calculated claims o fUS$ 583 million for its members alone covering the pre- andpost
1997 periods (the FEC does not address social debts, financial debts including the
defaulted treasury bonds purchased under compulsion bybanks and savings and credit
networks, and claims o f firms which are no longer in~peration).~
37.      The preliminarydata suggest that the total amount of certified debt arrears would
exceed US$465 million. The precise amount will be determined when the audit o fpre-
1997 has been completed. The govemment wishes to arrive at a negotiated settlement o f
these claims, at a substantial discount to their face value. Such a settlement would remove
an important element o f uncertainty that limits the scope for the resumption o fprivate
investment.
38.      While the ultimate discount cannot be determinedapriori, for some classes o f
debt, a discount close to that achieved underthe enhancedHIPC Initiative-as         was done
for similar intemal debt processes inneighboring countries-might         result. Negotiations
will also beinfluencedbythe current economic and fiscal realities o fthe DRC, which
constrain the government's ability to repay its debts.


 This figure represents 11percent of GDP.


                                                 9

39.     There are alternative approaches the Governmentmay follow to use the debt
settlement to assist the private sector. While assuring equality o f treatment between
creditors, priority can be given to those entities most likelyto reinvest proceeds from the
debt payments into the local economy (for instance, some pre-1997 claims are for firms
which subsequently failed, while post-1997 creditors are more likely to be functioning
firms for whom debt settlement remains a current problem).
40.     Debtto publicenterprises.The government has also accumulated substantial
arrears to public enterprises, but has decided inthe context of its program under the
PRGF arrangement with the IMFthat the arrears to public enterprises accumulated inthe
past will be written off.

Prevention of accumulation of new arrears to suppliers
41.     The problem o f internal debt i s not limitedto debt from the past. The Government
continues to accrue arrears on its centralized payments, "dipenses communes," for
consumption o fpublic utilities-water,         electricity, petroleum products, and
telecommunications inparticular. The Government's draft 2004 budget provides
approximately U S $ 21 million for water and electricity expenditures while the providers
estimate the combined amount due to be about three times that amount, or US$61
millionper year. Efforts are underwayto reconcile these figures, as they are largelybased
on estimated consumption. Partly as a result o f the on-going accumulation o f arrears,
utilities seek other means o f covering their expenses. These means include charging high
rates to good clients, the business and industrial consumers o f electricity, or reducing
expenses through lowering the quality o f service to the public (such as non-potable water
or frequent electricity outages). Resolution o fthe ongoing accumulation o f arrears by
their largest client -the Government andits agencies- canpermitthe utilities to improve
their service to the public.
42.     To this end, assistance to the Governmentinreducing arrears should not only
assist the Government inits own efforts to improve the management o f its utility
obligations but also be designed to help the utilities strengthentheir billingprocesses.
The Government is requiring all suppliers henceforth to provide more accurate bills for
services rendered as a condition o f payment. Inthe particular case o fwater and
electricity, which present particular problems, the Government i s also requiring the
providers, SNEL and REGIDESO, to draw up actionplans to improve the accuracy and
reliability o f their billings. For its part, the Government will take an important step
toward the timely payment o f utilitybills in2004 and for subsequent years.

                                        IV. DONOR     SUPPORT

A.      StrategicApproach to SupportReunification

43.     A consensus on the needto provide support to facilitate the process of economic
and social reunification o f the DRC emerged duringthe 2002 Consultative Group (CG)
meeting, and was confirmed duringthe 2003 C G meeting.Donors emphasized that such
support should be provided within the context o fnation-wide programs (and as
appropriate, with specific activities innorthern and eastem provinces), with particular



                                                  10

attention to staying away from activities that could indirectly contribute to dividingthe
country. They also called for close coordination o f economic support with other aspects
of the reunification process, inparticular humanitarian assistance. They finally underlined
that external assistance shouldbeprovided early on, wherever security conditions are
adequate.
44.      Inthis context, donors adopted apriority four-fold agendato support the
Congolese strategy towards economic and social reunification: (i)       helprestore sound
economic governance; (ii)     mitigate the fiscal cost o freunification; (iii)
                                                                             support
rehabilitation o f essential infrastructure and the restoration o f social services ineastern
and northern areas to catch up with programs in'otherparts o fthe country; and (iv) assist
indemobilization andreintegrationofformer combatants. Theycalledinparticular for
substantial balance o fpayments support to beprovided inorder to help reunification
become effective and to assist the Governmentinfacing its obligations inthe reunified
provinces, as revenues, although increasing, remain very low.
45.     Donors also called on the Bank to take the lead inpreparing for assistance to
eventually cover the entire country. They also encouraged the Bank to commit resources
that could contribute rapidly to stabilizing the economic and social situation inthe eastern
andnorthernprovinces, with a view to catalyzing donor resources.

B.      DebtRelief
46.     UndertheNaples terms o fthe enhancedH P Cprocess, multilateral andbilateral
donors have offered debt service relief o f over 90 percent andthe possibility o f debt
write-off as early as 2006, and provided access to financial program andproject
assistance. At the request o f concerned bilateral donors, the Bank has created an initiating
document for a multilateral debt service trust fund to address the still large burden
(US$30.1 millionper year on average between 2003-2005) of international debt service
remaining after HIPC reductions.

C.      IncreaseinDonor andPartner Support
47.     Donors have steeply increased their support to the DRC. Consultative Group
meetings for the DRC have been re-established by the World Bank: a pre-CG was held in
May 2002 and full CGs inDecember 2002 and 2003. Bilateral donors have announced                .
significant increases infinancial aid over the period 2003-2006, with particular focus on
poverty reduction andpost-conflict reconstruction. Disbursements have gone up by about
20 percent in2003, which correspond to the implementation o f a number o f projects, in
particular within the context of: (i) US$1.7 billion Emergency Multi-sector
                                      the
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program, which defines a broadly-endorsed priority
investmentprogram for infrastructurerehabilitation and support to social service delivery
(supported through a $454 million IDA credit); (ii)     activities inthe DRC under the
US$500 million Multi-country Demobilization and ReintegrationProgram (MDRP),
supported by a series of IDA credits that could total over US$l50 million and grants
through a multinational trust fund o fUS$350 million, which helps coordinate partner
efforts inbreaking the conflict cycle through a transition o f armed groups either into the
national armed forces or back into civilian life; (iii)variety o f projects throughout the
                                                         a



                                               11

country; and (iv) a substantial amount of technical assistanceand other institution
strengthening activities.
48.     The DRC was granted access to the PRGF facility o fthe IMF inJune 2002. This
program i s on track, and the third review was held inNovember 2003. InDecember
2003, the European Commission (EC) pledged grant financing o fUS$865 million for the
period 2004-2007. The African Development Fundhas followed up grant assistance with
additional project and program assistance, including an Economic Recovery and
Reunification Assistance Programto provide support (including SDR 44.5 million credit
and SDR 3.0 milliongrant) for key activities and to complement assistance provided
under this Credit.
49.     The civil service reform program has received strong donor support, under the
overall coordination o fUNDP andBelgium. The division o f labor i s as follows. Belgian-
supported technical assistance has identified the priority administrative reforms and i s
preparing implementation o ftest reforms inthree pilot ministries. The operational audits
are also supportedby Belgium.Belgium, the EU, and the African Development Fundare
co-financing the comprehensive civil service census to be undertaken by Belgium. This
census i s requiredfor the other legs o f the reform to succeed. France i s taking the lead on
the audit andreform ofthe payroll system(which would also control against re-entryof
civil servants after their retirement) and i s consideringproviding technical assistance for
the subsequentrestructuring. IDA i s providing support to institutional reform inthe form
o f an Institutional and Governance Review,with a particular focus on service delivery at
the local level. Through the proposedCredit, IDAwouldprovide financial andtechnical
support to the obligatory retirementprogram for civil servants already past retirement
age. Since these measures are complementaryandthe right sequencing i s an essential
element for the success o f the operations, close coordination among the donors has taken
place.

D.      AdditionalIDA Activities
50.     At thenational level, the IDA Economic Recovery Credit (Cr 3660) supported
reforms ina wide range o f areas including forestry andmining, labor law, and investment
climate. At the same time, the Emergency Early RecoveryProject, which was financed
through an IDA Grant (Grant H005 DRC), and the Emergency Multisector Rehabilitation
and ReconstructionProject (EMRRP, Cr 3703 and Grant H O l O DRC) are financing
emergency rehabilitation o f key infrastructure that will directly benefit the population.
Continuing the support o f the rehabilitation and reform program, an Emergency
Economic and Social Reunification Support Program (Cr 3824 and Grant H064 DRC,
September 2003) i s preparing inter alia for the extension o f the EMRRPto formerly
occupied areas. A Private Sector Development and Competitiveness Project (PSDCP, Cr
3815) provides support to reform of key state-owned enterprises and i s supporting
measures to promote the competitiveness o f the Congolese economy. The World Bank
Institute has providedcapacity reinforcingtraining, andtechnical assistance underthe
Public Expenditure and FinancialAccounting program supports the Government's efforts
at redefining the roles of the various levels o f Government.




                                                12

     v.BANKTRANSITIONALSTRATEGY                TO SUPPORTTHE GOVERNMENT'S                 PROGRAM

 51.       The objective o f the Bank's strategy i s to contribute to the transition to peace and
 stability inthe DRC and the sub-region. Support has been framed within the context o f a
 Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) which was discussed by the Board inJuly 2001
 (TSS, Report P057300) and aimedto: (i) basic and urgentneeds; (ii)
                                                meet                                    rebuild
 effective public institutions and policies; (iii)   revitalize economic activity; and (iv)
 rebuildimplementation capacity. Supportincludes financial support, policy and technical
 advice, as well as donor mobilization. Specific objectives are giveninBox 1together
 with the program or activity intendedto address them.
I                                       Box 1: TSS Objectives                                              I
           Objective                             Descriptionof Programor Activity
 Meeting basic and urgent         Support social service delivery and social infrastructure ruined by
 needs                            looting, war, and years o f neglect
                                 Reintegrate ex-combatants and displaced households
                                  Establish and support an anti-HIV/AIDS task force at a level higher
                                 than the ministeriallevel. Establish safe blood transfusion.
 Rebuilding effective public      Strengthen transparency, accountability, and participation
 institutions and policies        Lay the groundwork for broad-based growth with disincentives to
                                  corruption and a new role for the State vis-a-vis local administrations,
                                 the private sector, and non-govemmental groups
 Revitalizing economic           Aid the private sector through reconstruction o f essential infrastructure
 activity                        Initiate community-driven development activities
                                 Promote revival o f the food linkages from farmer to consumer.
                                 Introduce regulatory and other incentives for investment while ensuring
                                 that all can broadly share the benefits o f mineral wealth.




                                                  13

                                 VI. THEPROPOSEDCREDIT

A. ObjectivesandDesign
53.    Objectives.The mainobjective ofthe proposed Post-ReunificationEconomic
Recovery Credit (PRERC) i s to assist the Government with foreign exchange inthe post-
reunification context, so as to support and facilitate the implementationo f urgent reforms
incritical areas: (i) supporting the continued implementationo f economic reforms
throughout the country; (ii)  supporting civil service reform, and inparticular the
retirement of staffhavingreached retirement age; (iii)    completing the process o f debt
reduction andrestructuring begununder the ERC, interms o fboth settling arrears and
preventing the accumulation o fnew arrears. The proposed Credit, encompassing several
keypolicy actions, would provide critical financing necessary to advance structural
reforms and govemancehransparency measures o f the Government's program, as
outlined inthe policy matrix. The policy reform framework draws on the ongoing policy
dialogue with the Govemment invarious sectors, and on the preparatorywork carried out
inconjunction with the IMFPoverty Reductionand GrowthFacility.
54.    Design.The Credit, inan amount o fUS$200millionequivalent, will be disbursed
infour tranches as follows:

    0  the first tranche, inan amount of US$SS million, to be made available at
       effectiveness;

    0  a floating tranche o f US$47.5 million for an end-of-service program to
       accompany the Government's retirement program for delayed retirees insupport
       o f civil service reform;

    0  a floating tranche o f US$42.5 million upon arrangements for negotiated
       repayment o f the Government's intemal debt to private creditors; and

    0  a floating tranche o f US$ 25 million for supporting the reform o f utilities billing
       andpayment.
55.    The three floating tranches are mutually independent and can be released inany
order. Release o f each tranche will be undertaken against the background o f general
maintenance o f a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
56.    Disbursementofthese tranches would bemade inUS.dollars into the Ministryo f
Finance deposit account ina bank acceptable to IDA and would be subject to that
account's use and audit requirements, following the model established under the ERC,
whichwas foundto work well. These resources wouldbeusedto finance imports subject
to a negative list as specified inSchedule 1o f the Credit Agreement. These funds could
also be subject to annual audits by auditors acceptable to IDA. The Government i s
considering usingthe funds and counterpart funds for certainhitherto-unfundedor
underfundedpriority areas, with possible uses including:

    i)     retiremento fthe first cohort (already identified) o f civil servants;

    ii)    continuation and enlargement o f the range o f quick-impact and visible
           rehabilitationprojects which have had a demonstrable impact on the poor
           underthe ERC;


                                              14

     iii) provisionoffinancingtosub-nationalgovernmentstoimplementlocalhighly-
             visible rehabilitationprojects;

     iv)     support to the participatoryprocess o f developing a decentralizationlaw;

     v)      bridgingfinance to sub-national unitsto correct for temporary negative
             impacts o f the recent and ongoing fiscal reform and decentralization, or early
             fiscal misalignments under the implementation o f this law; or

     vi)     essential deferredmaintenance on public structures not financedby donors.

B. Justificationfor the ProposedCredit
57.     The Government o f the DRC has successfully sustained over a period o f more
than two anda half years a set o f measures aimed at enhancing sound macroeconomic
policies, stabilizing the economy, and preparing for growth. It mustnow maintainthese
sound policies across a reunifiedcountry with substantially greater demands on its
resources.
58.     The Government is seeking to re-launchbroad-based growth while avoiding the
model o f the past based on the abusive exploitation o f this wealth by an elite. This
requires effective and transparent govemance. Inorder to fulfill its role inpoverty-
reduction and the delivery o f social services, the Governmentseeks to improve the
efficiency and integrityo f the civil service. Without a strong response o fprivate sector
investmentandimprovements inthe productivecapacity o fthe economy, higher growth
would neither be achieved nor sustained.
59.     The proposed Credit will support the deepeningo f structural reforms,
reunification o f administrations, and the continued reform o f the public sector to foster
efficiency and enhance productive capacities, while providing the Government with the
resources to facilitate extensive transitional and reintegration adjustments.

C. FeaturesandContentof the Credit

Conditionsfor release of the initial tranche
60.     The initial tranche would be made available at effectiveness, and would aim to
support continued implementation o f the economic reform program, inline with the
Government's Letter o f Development Policy. Inview o fthe Government's performance
to date, there will be no condition for effectiveness.

Conditionsfor the release of thefloating tranches
        Civil service retirement tranche
61.     The civil service retirement tranche o fUS$47.5 millionis intendedto assist the
Government infinancing the retirement package for workers who have reached
retirementage. For this tranche to bedisbursed, a strategy and implementationplanwill
have beenadopted by the Council o f Ministers setting forth, inter alia: (i) necessary
                                                                              the
legal and administrative steps to be followed to carry out the transition o f civil servants
from active duty into retirement after having fulfilled mandatory retirement criteria on the
basis o f current legislation; (ii)
                                  a program including proposed target groups, modalities o f


                                               15

payment, and the cut-off-date for being eligible for the retirementpackage; (iii)   a
transparent mechanism for identification o fretirees, disbursementprocedure, and the
control o f funds to be disbursed; and (iv) publication o fregulations, administrative acts,
andother information relevant to beneficiaries, such as the calendar ofpayments and
calculation method used.

       Internal debt tranche
62.    The proposedtranche o fUS$42.5 millionwould help the Governmentpartially
finance the arrears clearance for intemal debt, excluding that to public enterprises and
agencies. Release o f this tranche i s dependent on:
        validation o fthe stock o f debt pursuant to procedures satisfactory to the
        Association.
        publication inthe Official Gazette and the press and media o fwide circulation in
        the nationalterritory o fa cut-off date after which domestic creditors are
        precluded from (a) submittingfurther claims to be included inthe stock o f debt,
        or (b) completing or modifyingalready submitted claims to be included inthe
        stock o f debt;
        an agreement, bindingunder the laws o fthe DRC, having been concluded
        betweenthe Government and its creditors representingat least 75 percent o f the
        stock of debt, pertainingto a common discount factor, or discount factors as the
        case maybe, satisfactory to the Association, applicable to the stock of debt; and
        appointment o f a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, following the
        application o f a transparent competitive selection process satisfactory to the
        Association, called upon to effect payments to creditors.

       Public utilities (centralizedpayments) tranche
       The Public Utilities tranche (US$25 million) would assist the government in
makingtimely regular flat-rate payments o fcurrent bills to the water (REGIDESO) and
the power (SNEL) companies for 2004. Release would be conditional upon:

    (i)     adoption by the Government o f an action plan, includingan implementation
            schedule, inform and substance acceptable to IDA, to control its utility use
            and expenditures;

    (ii)    adoption by bothREGIDESO and SNEL o f action plans, including
            implementation schedules, inform and substance acceptable to IDA, to
            improve the reliability, transparency and accountability o f their billing
            procedures to public administration; the Government's protocol with these
            companies will specify expenditure plans for the funds that would be
            transferred to them.
64.    Monitorable Benchmarks.Progress and outcome indicatorswill be monitored in
the areas o fmanagement o f the civil service reformprocess, and management o fthe
intemal debt. These indicators, designed to track progress toward achieving the goals o f
the DRC's reformprogram, have been agreed on with the authorities and are presented in



                                             16

the matrix o fpolicyreforms (Annex 3). Bank staff will monitor them to assess how the
proposedCredit contributes to the success o f the Government's efforts.

D. CreditImplementationandInstitutionalArrangements
65.     Disbursementmechanism:The Credit will be disbursedinfour tranches, o f
whichthe first will bereleaseduponcredit effectiveness, and the remainingthree upon
completion o f specific triggers. The Credit will follow the Bank's simplified
disbursementprocedures for adjustment credit^.^ Incase any portion o fthe proceeds o f
the Credit i s usedfor ineligible purposes as set forth inthe Credit Agreement (Schedule
l), wouldrequiretheborrowertoeither:(a)returnthatamounttothedeposit
    IDA
account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the IDA credit
account. The deposit account will be independentlyauditedby external auditors and in
accordance with terms o f reference acceptable to IDA.
66.     The authorities intend to use the proceeds from the InternalDebt tranche as a
partial contribution to the settlement o f Government debts and arrears to domestic
creditors, as part o f a global settlement.
67.     The authorities intendto use the proceeds from the Public Utilities tranche to
make flat-rate payments to REGIDESO and SNEL for consumption during 2004. These
payments may be less than actual consumption as determined by the companies but will
be considered as complete settlement o f 2004 payments due.
68.     The authorities intendto use the proceeds from the Civil Service Retirement
tranche to support the program o fphased retirement, as described inparagraph 54 (i).
69.     Uponapproval ofthe Credit, the MinistryofFinance will open a deposit account
ina commercial bank or at the CentralBank inwhich IDAwill deposit the proceedso f
the initialtranche o fthe Credit. The Ministryo fFinance is expected to set up accounting
and tracking arrangements similar to those that were found satisfactory for
implementation o f the SDR 360.4 million ERC, to ensure that resources from the Credit
are committed and expended inaccordance with the provisions o f the Credit Agreement,
The use o fthe funds deposited bythe Bank inthe deposit account will be subject to
annual audits by external auditors based on terms o freference acceptable to IDA.
70.     Fiduciaryandfinancialrisk management.Recognizingthe capacity limitations
as the DRC emerges from conflict, the authorities are makingsubstantial efforts to
strengthenpublic sector financial management and accountability with assistance from
IDAandthe IMF.The Cour des Comptes,the legislature's internal audit service, has
submittedits report on the Government's Financial Statements to the NationalAssembly
inJanuary 2004, inconformity with the transition Constitution. Poverty expenditures, as
captured by the 15 HIPC tracking benchmarks, were reviewed inan Assessment and
Action Plan, which was introduced as part of the 2002 Public ExpenditureReview. A
full-fledged Country Financial Accountability Assessment, inwhich both PREM and



  See "Simplifying disbursement procedures under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans," Operational
  Memorandum, February8, 1996.




                                                 17

  Financial Management staff will participate, i s plannedfor FY 2005. A Country
  Procurement Assessment Review i s underway and will be completed inApril 2004.

  E.EnvironmentalAspects
  71.     The program i s classified as environmentalcategory C because no component is
  expectedto have an environmental impact.

  F.GovernmentOwnershipandParticipatoryApproach
  72.     The activities financedby this credit are an integral part o fthe Government's
  strategy for recovery and growth, as expressed inits Letter o fDevelopment Policy
  (Annex 2). On October 9,2003 the Vice-presidential Economic and Financial
  Commission approved the creation o f an inter-ministerial steering committee for civil
  service reform. InOctober 2003 a commission responsible for decentralization
  commenced drafting a structural decentralization law that will be submitted for public
  andprofessional comments.

                                  VIII. BENEFITSAND RISKS

  A.     Benefits
  73.    The potential benefits o f support to the DRC inthe form o fthe proposedPRERC
  largely outweigh the highlevel o frisk.From a macroeconomic standpoint, the Credit
  would support policies that continue to stabilize andrevive the economy. The civil
  service retirement and internal debt tranches will provide support to improved
  management of the delivery o f social services, and to the re-launch o f a competitive
  private sector. The second benefit i s that the Credit will provide content to the national
, programto improve governance andreduce corruptionwith afocus onthe civil service.

  B.     Risks
  74.    Renewedconflict. Since the establishment o f a transitional government andthe
  channeling of political conflict into the electoral process, the risk o frenewedconflict has
  greatly diminishedcompared to the situation at the time o fthe design o f the ERC in
  2001. Nevertheless, violence continues insome districts.

      0  To address this, on July 28, the UNSecurity Council increased the size and the
         mandate (through July 30,2004) o f the UnitedNations Observation Mission in
         the Congo (MONUC), replacing anEU-led InterimEmergency Multinational
         Force. The danger o f renewed nation-wide conflict appears to be greatly reduced.
  75.    Renewedarrears. Followingthe HIPC Decision Point, the multilateraldebt
  service obligation o fthe DRC has declined fromUS$ 61.3 1million to US$30.14 million
 per year (2003-2005 average). However, since the DRC was payingno service on its
 debts before late 2001, (a) total required expenditure on debt service has increased, and
 (b) there is no correspondingdecline indebt service outlay to matchthe increase in
 poverty-related expenditures requiredby the HIPC process itself. As a result, total debt
 service has increased. Resolution o fthe underpayment o f utilities charges would impose
 an additional expenditure stream o f aroundUS$ 61 millionper year. Civil service salaries



                                                18

continue to be miniscule, andthe social and political pressure to increase them i s strong
and growing. Revenuesare growing, but there i s no certainty that they will rise to the
point where such expenditures can all be met inthe mediumterm, nor may it be desirable
given the pressingunmet social needs. A reneweddefault remains possible ifgovernment
treasury cash flow i s insufficient to service extemal debt.
76.      Lack of internationalsupport. The development needs ofthe DRC are o f an
order o fmagnitude greater than those o f other African countries. Failure for donors to
maintain the current highlevels o f assistancepledgedto date could hinder the
Government's ability not only to service its debt, but also to reconstruct its administrative
and economic infrastructure, and rehabilitate some o fthe social facilities. This would also
exacerbate poverty and social distress. Inthis respect, the donor community will be
watching closely the performance o fthe Transition Government.

     0   To mitigate these two sources o f risk, continued highlevels o f donor support are
         requiredinthe mediumterm. IDAis working with other donors to assure a
         continued highlevel o f donor financing, and i s providing guidance for the
         measures, including the PRSP process, that will make permanent the debt service
         reduction that followed the HIPC DecisionPoint.
77.      Compromisedcapacity. The Government's limitedinstitutional and
administrative capacity could leadto delays inthe implementation o fkey measures.
These delays might be significant inthe reform o f the civil service, affecting the release
o f the retirement tranche and the effectiveness o f the programs supported.

     0   To address this, IDA and donors are providing technical assistance for civil
         service reform.
78.      Privatesector response. Despite the improvement inthe investment climate, it is
possible that the private sector will not respondor that debt negotiationswill not bring
about the desired revival o fprivate sector activities due to lack o f confidence o f foreign
investors, lack o f financial resources for domestic investors, or other reasons.

     0   This risk is beingaddressedby the Private Sector Development and
         Competitiveness Project (PSDCP, Cr 3815), as well as by other activities by IDA
         and donors to improve the investment climate. This risk appears to be
         diminishing, giventhe considerable intemational investor interest inthe DRC that
         has been expressed over the last 18 months. Ifthe domestic private sector fails to
         respondthen the subsequent growth will be less robust than expected but will
         occur nonetheless.
79.      Regionalconflict.Finally, conflict inthe Democratic Republicof Congo maynot
be amenable to national policies andprograms when conflict continues inneighboring
countries. The natural resource plunder across borders and, more generally, the poor
reputation inthe minds o f intemational investors concerning the region as a whole are
also linked to the regional conflict. Even ifthe DRC is able to obtain satisfactory progress
inpeace and stabilization, the possibility remains that the regionalizationofother
conflicts will exacerbate the other risks.

     0  The regional approach to conflict resolution and development, already begunby
        the Bank, AU, OECD and others, would be continued to manage this risk. The


                                               19

       MDRPaddressesimmediateissues ofDDRdirectly. The Great Lakes Peace
       Conference, proposedsince 1997but now beingactively designed by both
       regional governments and the broader intemational community, i s an important
       first step toward addressing the larger issue o fregional stability and peace.
80.    Fiduciary risks.Fiduciary risks are considerable, but the government i s making
substantial efforts to mitigate themthrough its various efforts, set forth inthis report, to
strengthenpublic sector financial management with assistancefrom IDA andthe IMF.
Important lessons have been leamed from the ERC. Fundsprovided to SNEL and
REGIDESOas part o f arrears stabilization would be spent according to expenditure plans
agreed with the Government.




                                            20

                                 ANNEXES



1. Timetable of Key Processing Events
2. Letter of Development Policy (Government)
3. Policy Matrix
4. Social Indicators
5. Democratic Republic o f Congo At a Glance
6. Key Economic Indicators
7. Status of Operations Approved Since 2001
8. World Bank-IMF Relations
Country Map




                                     21

22

                                   Annex 1

                       Timetable of Key ProcessingEvents




Time takento prepare the Credit:         6 months


Project prepared by:                     Government and IDA staff


ROC DecisionMeeting:                     December 23,2003


Appraisal:                               January, 2004


Negotiations:                            January 15-16,2004


BoardPresentation:                       February 26,2004


Effectiveness                            March2004


Project Completion:                      June 2005




   This operation was prepared by a team led by Eric Nelson (Task Team Leader,
   AFTP3) and including Hans Wabnitz (LEGAF), Renee Desclaux (LOAAF); Ivan
   Rossignol (AFTPS); Philippe Benoit (AFTEG); Yao Badjo (AFTU2); Paulo de Sa
   (COCPD); Josee Bamvi (AFTTR); Brendan Horton, Emilie Mushobekwa, Keiko
   Kubota, Danielle Dukowicz, Stephanie Abdulin, Peter Osei andMariama Daifour Ba
   (AFTP3); Helena Ramos, Gilles Gauvreau, Thieny Becheret (Consultants). The peer
   reviewers were Onno Riihl (Resident Representative for DRC) and Willem Zijp
   (AFTQK).
   The PREM Sector Manager is Cadman Atta Mills, and the Country Director is
   EmmanuelMbi.




                                        23

24

                                                               ANNEX2

                                              Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
                                       Translatedfromthe FrenchOriginal



                                                                              Kinshasa, January 21,2004

TO THE PRESIDENT

SUBJECT: POST-REUNIFICATION ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT

                                  DEVELOPMENTPOLICY PAPER

INTRODUCTION
1.       The Democratic Republic o f the Congo has immense human and mineral
resources. However, the deficient political and economic governance o f the last 30 years
after independence in 1960 were translated into negative economic growth and increasing
poverty. The accumulation o f multilateral and bilateral debt arrears led the donor
agencies and creditors to suspend their cooperation with our country at the beginning of
the 1990s, with harmful effects on the welfare o f the Congolese population.
2.       These counter-performances were exacerbated between 1997 and 2003 following
the violent armed conflict on Congolese, soil which involved the participation o f several
rebel movements and foreign armies from seven African countries, as well as the
partition o f our territory. The economic, social, political and environmental cost o f this
conflict was very high.More than three million lives were lost. The scope and complexity
o f the conflict were a serious challenge to institutional stability and basic socioeconomic
infrastructure. It threatened the DRC's territorial integrity and threatened to expandto the
entire sub-region.
3.       In spite o f its wealth, the DRC had become one o f the poorest countries in the
world by the end o fthe second millennium.
___------------------------------------------------------------
______---_----------____________________-----------------------

 TO Mr.JamesD.WOLFENSOHN
     President,World Bank Group
     Washington, D.C. 20433, USA


4.       In this context, a new government instituted, and, in the first quarter o f 2001,
committed itself immediately to carry out the following: (i)              restore peace; (ii)
                                                                                            normalize
relations with external creditors; and (iii) growth and begin the fight against
                                                                 revive
poverty.



                                                                25

5.       In the political sphere, we are pleased to note that our efforts to strengthen the
inter-Congolese peace and dialogue process, held in Lusaka and Sun City, have shown
positive and encouraging results. An all-inclusive transition government, which brings
together all the stakeholders, was installed on June 30, 2003. The country i s now
reunified.
6.       With respect to the economy, our efforts have resulted in strong support since
June 2002 from the international financial community, notably the International
Monetary Fund, the World Bank (more specifically, the International Development
Association), the African Development Bank and numerousbilateral creditors.
7.       This is the case for the clearance of arrears to the multilaterals inJune-July 2002,
for which the International Monetary Fund granted 580 million SDR in support.
Similarly, the World Bank approved an Economic Recovery Credit o f 360.4 million SDR
and a credit o f 358.8 million SDR to support the Emergency Multi-Sector Emergency
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Program (EMRRP). In September 2002, the member
countries o f the Paris Club granteda rescheduling o f our debt to them in accordance with
the terms of Naples. The government's good program implementation since June 2002
culminated inthe DRC's admission on July 24-25, 2003, to the Enhanced HIPC Initiative
Decision Point, on the conclusion o f the meetings of the IMF and World Bank Boards o f
Directors. This made it possible to reduce the stock o f our external debt from 12 billion
dollars to 1.5 billion. On this point, we hope to reach the CompletionPoint within
three years. Moreover, the World Bank approved three other credits in September-
October 2003: (i)     the Private Sector Development Support Project for 87.1 million
SDR; (ii)  the Economic and Social Reunification Support Project for 152.7 million SDR;
and (iii) support project for Electricity Export Toward Southern Africa. Furthermore,
          the
two other projects on AIDS are being prepared(HIV/AIDS/MDRP).
8.      Nevertheless, re-establishing peace and making progress in the fight against
poverty throughout the newly reunified country constitutes an enormous challenge that
requires ongoing support from the international community for several more years. To
significantly improve the standard o f living o f the entire population and markedly reduce
poverty, we will need: (a) strong and continuous economic growth for decades; (b) pro-
poor budgets, especially in the education, health and infrastructure sectors; and (c) well
adapted overall economic policy, structural and sector policies.
9.      It is inthis context that the government requests at least USD 150 million in the
form o f a development credit for the funding o f its economic program for the years 2004-
05, in general, and particularly for: (i) the partial clearance o f the internal debt incurred
before December 31, 2001; (ii)retirement indemnities for about 70,000 government
employees who have met the conditions for retirement; and (iii)      nationwide public works
with a visible impact. On this subject, the attached memorandum describes the
government's development policy for the period 2004-05. This policy i s based on the
three I-PRSP pillars approved by the IDA and IMF Boards o f Directors in June 2002: (i)
the consolidation of macroeconomic stability and recovery of pro-poor growth; (ii)         the
restoration of peace and the improvement o f governance; and (iii)       the strengthening o f
community dynamics. This Letter o f Development Policy and the policy matrix that
relates to it deal with the following topics insuccession:



                                              26

            0   Macroeconomic and budgetary frameworks
            0   Preparation o f the poverty reduction strategy
            0   Restorationo fpeace and improvement o f governance
            0    Structural and sector policies
We also note that good implementation o f the measures described in the Letter o f
Development Policy should make it possible for the government to make good progress
toward the achievement o f structural benchmarks so as to reach the Completion Point in
the context o f the Enhanced HIPC Initiativeby the 4thquarter o f 2006.

MACROECONOMIC            AND BUDGETARY FRAMEWORKS
10.     The challenge to be met with respect to growth and poverty reduction i s
enormous. For example, it would take 40 years to reach the per capita revenue level o f
1990 if we assume an annual real GDP growth rate o f 5.3 percent and a 3 percent
population growth rate. It would take 60 years to reach the 1960 level. To reach that
objective, it would not only require an accelerated growth rate for decades, but also pro-
poor budgets and adapted structural and sector policies.
11.    It is with a view to conquering poverty that we designed the Enhanced Interim
Program (EIP), which covered the period 2001-02, and the Government Economic
Program (GEP) for 2002-05. These programs have enjoyed the support o f the
international financial community, the IMF, WB and AfDB in particular. We have also
been able to benefit from a rescheduling of, and reduction in our external debt by Paris
Club member creditors within the framework o f the Enhanced HIPC Initiative.
12.      The EIP and the GEP have already produced convincing results; this after a
degradation o f the situation for four years (1997-2000), with an average annual decline in
the GDP of 5.5% and hyperinflation at an annualized rate o f 635.1% from January to
May 2001. The effort undertaken by the government and the BCC in the framework o f
the programs mentioned above caused the inflation rate to fall to 25% in2002 and 13% in
2003. The growth rate, negative for the entire decade o f the nineties, reached 3% in2002
and 5% in2003.
13.    With respect to the external situation, the exchange rate, after the devaluation of
the Congolese Franc inMay 2001, has stabilized around 370 CF to the dollar in2003, in
spite o f some fluctuations. The current account deficit prior to the debt reduction
represented 10-11% o f GDP. However, thanks to the reduction in debt service obtained
from our bilateral (Paris Club) and multilateral creditors within the framework o f the
Enhanced HIPC Initiative, the current account deficit, after debt reduction, should be
below 1% o f GDP in 2003. This would allow us to increase our accumulation o f gross
external reserves from USD 22 million to USD 272 millionbetween 2001 and 2004.
14.    With respect to public finances, program implementation made it possible to
increase income from 6.2% o f GDP in 2001 to 8.3% in 2003. This, with external
assistance (though smaller than planned) including grants (and excluding humanitarian
aid), helped us increase our spending from 8.3% o f GDP in 2001 to 15.2%, which
indicates an overall deficit estimated at 2.7% o f GDP. However, the composition of the
expenses did not meet our objectives because the payment o f unplannedarrears caused a
greater-than-expected BCC treasury deficit.      In addition, there was an accumulation of


                                              27

arrears on payments o f common expenses (water, electricity, etc.), and it was necessary
to defer salary increases, which were plannedto be 10%.
15.      T h e    macroeconomic             framework     for     2004-2005.       The      government's
macroeconomic objectives for the next two years are an economic growth rate o f 6% in
2004 and 7% in 2005 inreal terms, whereas the inflation rate should be contained at 6%
in 2004 and 5% in 2005'. We also anticipate an increase in the current external deficit,
which, however, will be financed by a large increase in external assistance. Thus the
current external deficit, after rescheduling, may reach4.1% of GDP in2004.
16.      The 2004 budgetary policy aims to consolidate the macroeconomic stabilization
efforts, taking the effects o f reunifying the country fully into account and reaping the
peace benefits to reorient public expenditures toward poverty reduction. Income should
reach 9% o f GDP and expenditures 17.6%, thanks mainly to the recovery o f investments
financedby external resources.2
17.      With the return ofpeace, we hope to be able to experience a considerable increase
in investment expenditures and those related to the fight against poverty thanks to
external financial support from various sources (WB, AfDB, EU, etc), as well as those
made possible through the Enhanced HIPC Initiati~e.~We hope that the expenditures
related to poverty will reach 6.5% o f GDP, o f which 4.8% to be financed through the
national budget and 1.7% of the GDP through budget savings attributed to the Enhanced
HIPC Initiative. At the same time, we expect to contain militaqdsecurity and institutional
expenditures to the strict minimum needed, or 2% and 1.1'30, respectively, o f GDP.
Moreover, the proposed 2004 budget notably includes the following expenditures:

    0    A 10% increase in salaries for all civil and military agents beginning in January
         2004;
         A reduction o f 10,000 active employees through the execution o f a planned
         retirement scheme for government agents and other officials who meet the
         conditions as o f December 312004;

    0    After the government appraisal mission in the reunified provinces, assuming
         responsibilityfor 135,000 civil agents (including those who could retire) from the
         reunified provinces and 15,000 national police officers; as well as the cost o f
         merging the armies, which began in October 2003 and will continue until we
         actually initiate our national DDR program, which will, in theory, be funded by
         the international community;

    0    The timely payment o f centralizedutility charges based on billed usage from now
         on, or, in the absence o f invoicing and while awaiting the installation o f meters,
         on the basis o f estimated usage. An action plan for this purpose to master the



1        Over the longer term, we expect to maintain a growth rate o f about 7 percent through 2010.
2        Inthis case, the primary internalbalance (cash basis) willproduce a surplus o f2.1percent o f
GDP, and consolidated governmental operations, including the net BCC operations balance (0.6 percent o f
GDP) should show an overall consolidated deficit (cash basis after debt rescheduling) o f 3 percent o f GDP.
3       Monitoring pro-poor expenditures will be easier thanks to the new expenditure nomenclature that
contains a particular classification for this purpose.


                                                      28

         centralized charges was adopted in December 2003 and will be implemented in
         2004.
18.      It is to be noted that we request World Bank support for the financing o f these
expenses through this credit. It will obviously be necessary to introduce an amended
funding law to take into account the expenditures that shouldinfact appear in2004.

POVERTY        REDUCTION          STRATEGY
19.      Objective. The goal from now to August 2005 is the formulation and adoption
o f a complete PRSP prepared in a participatory manner. We must remember that an
interim PRSP was prepared and adopted in June 2002. The strategy proposed in this
document i s built upon three pillars, as follows: (i) restoration o f peace and good
                                                                  the
governance; (ii)stabilization o f the macroeconomic framework and the revival o f pro-
poor growth; and (iii)     strengtheningcommunity dynamics and community capacity inthe
planning, development and implementationo f development activities.

1.       Accomplishments since June 2002
20.      Three types o f activities have been carried out since October 2002. First, within
the framework o f setting up a statistical database, the Permanent Secretary o f the
Interministerial Committee, responsible for the poverty reduction strategy, undertook the
organization o f a national survey on the poverty threshold, the pilot testing o f which was
carried out in November and December 2002. Secondly, an action plan with a timeline
was drafted and then adopted in June 2003 by the government after discussions with all
national and international stakeholders for the development of a complete PRSP. This
will be adopted bythe government duringthe thirdquarter o f2005.
21.      The action plan describes the institutional arrangements and various works to be
carried out, as well as the corresponding timeline for completing the PRSP by August
2005. Inparticular, it involves the following:
         a) The strengthening o f the competencies o f various agencies4 and the definition
              o f the roles o f the various stakeholders inthe PRSP formulation proce~s;~
         b) The preparation and holding o f participatory consultations and their
              dissemination o f their results to stakeholders at all levels (national, provincial,
              local and community);
         c) The contribution o f specialized subject groups and technical ministries;
         d) The preparation andimplementationo fthe poverty threshold survey;
         e) The preparation o f the PRSP document based on all the above-mentioned
             contributions; and finally,
         f) Ownership o fthe process o fdevelopingthe final PRSP by all the participants.




4        InterministerialCommittee, Permanent Secretariat, Technical Committee, multidisciplinary
specific subject groups, focal points and provincial and local committees for poverty reduction.
5        Civilsociety, NGOs, ministries involved, the private sector, Parliament, community associations,
youth associations, vulnerable groups, religious communities, and local administrations.


                                                     29

2.      Actions to complete by the end of 2005
22.      In December 2003, a launch workshop for the PRSP formulation process was
organized. At this time, an information, education and communication campaign i s in
progress. It involves: (i)the process o f formulating the complete PRSP; (ii)the
organization of participatory consultations at the national, provincial, local and
community levels; and (iii) finalization of the organizationof the poverty survey, the
                              the
launchingofwhich is plannedfor January 2004, with a view toward itscompletiona
year later.
23.      The participatory consultations will take place from February through May
2004. The editing o f the reports on the sector and community consultations and their
dissemination to the technical ministries and communities will take place in June-July
2004. These reports will then be used by the specific subject groups and technical
ministries to draft their contributions to the PRSP. The poverty threshold survey i s
organized in a participatory way and will be completed in urban and rural areas by
statistical data sheets on household budgets/consumption, employment and the informal
sector ("1-2-3 Survey"). The implementation o f the survey will be done through a
partnership involving the TPRSC and the National Institute o f Statistics so that this
structure can play its central role in the collection, analysis and dissemination o f the
poverty data. We are expecting the support o f AFRISTAT and the National Secretariat
for Capacity Building(SENAREC) inthis exercise.
24.      On the basis o f the reports o f the consultations and technical works, the specific
subject groups and sector ministries will develop their contributions to the PRSP, which
should be ready by the end o f September 2004. After the completion o f "1-2-3 Surveys"
on the poverty threshold in December 2004, the report will be finalized by the end of
February2005. Duringthe first week ofMay 2005, it will thenbe disseminated to sector
ministries, the provinces, the communities and other partners. The next step would
consist o f the development of a first, preliminary version o f the PRSP, which should be
available in April 2005. Its distribution to the national and intemational partners will
occur in June 2005. This will make it possible to finalize and disseminate the final
version in July and August 2005, before it i s submitted to the government at the end of
August 2005. It is expected that it will be adopted two months later, or inOctober 2005.

STRUCTURAL AND SECTOR POLICIES

I. PeaceandGovernance
25.     The I-PRSP insisted greatly on the maintenance o f peace and improving
govemance as essential conditions for retuming to economic growth and reducing
poverty. For the next two years, we are focusing our efforts on: (i)         peace, especially
through the launching o f the program for demobilizing and reinserting former
combatants; (ii)  good govemance; (iii)    intensification o f the struggle against corruption;
(iv) improved management o f public finances; (v) reforms inthe civil service, territorial
administration (with decentralization as a priority) and inthejudicial area.




                                               30

Promotionof Peace
26.      Objective. The main objective i s to consolidate peace through the disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration o f the ex-combatants. In this perspective, the
government launched a National Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
Program (NDDRP) for the armed Congolese groups that signed the Lusaka Accord,
particularly the FAC, MLC, RCD-Goma, RCD-ML and the Mag-Mag. The program has
three components: (i)  demobilization and reintegration o f the above-mentioned groups o f
combatants, estimated to be between 90,000 to 150,000; (ii)assistance in the
socioeconomic reintegration of the ex-combatants; and (iii)special assistance to
vulnerable groups. The NDDRP would be funded mainly by an IDA credit and a grant
from the Multi-Country         Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP).
Contributions from the national budget, the United Nations Observer Mission to the
Congo (MONUC) andbilateral agencies remainto be defined.

1.      Achievements
27.     The government defined the institutional structures necessary for the DDR in
consultation with donors. These include the National DDR Commission, responsible for
defining   strategic orientations and the Executive Secretariat, responsible for the
implementation o f these orientations. Until this structure i s created, the government i s
developing the NDDRP within the framework o f the Planning and Coordination
Technical Committee (PCTC), created in October 2003, to coordinate emergency DDR
activities. The NDDRP must be the result o f national consultations and national
ownership o f the program. It will be validated formally by the National DDR
Commission.

2.      Actions to be carried out by the end of 2005
28.     By March 2004, the government should: (i)finalize the development o f the
program for restructuring the army so as to be able to define the NDDRP,especially with
respect to the demobilization criteria; (ii) up the institutional structure necessary for
                                            set
strategic direction and implementation o f the NDDRP through the National DDR
Commission (NDDRC) and the Executive Secretariat respectively; (iii)appoint the
Director General o f the Executive Secretariat; and (iv) finalize the NDDRP after
consultations and national assumption o f responsibility. These activities are the
preliminary ones necessary for the disarmament and demobilization phase.
29.     If the above activities are carried out and security conditions permit, the
disarmament and demobilization phase can begin in April 2004 (for a 7-month period).
The reintegration phasemay thenbegininNovember 2004 (for 1year).

Governance

OverallObjectives
30.     Between now and September 2005, the objective pursued by the government i s to
improvethe managementof public affairs at the nationallevel through the promotion
o f good governance, the fight against corruption and institutional reform. First, it will
involve: (a) consolidating the gains and deepening the reforms with respect to the fight


                                            31

against corruption and improving the management o f public finances; and (b) initiating
reforms with respect to the civil service, decentralization andthejudiciary sector.

A.        The FightAgainst Corruption
31. After the enactment o f the government decree that set forth the Government
Employee's Code o f Good Conduct in November 2002, an extension campaign was
launched in Mbuji-May in March 2003. However, it had to be suspended for lack o f
funding. A compilation on the citizen's vade-mecum (compilation on the rights and
obligations o f citizens) was developed and i s being approved by the government. A
proposed anti-corruption law was drafted by the Ministry o f Justice. It will be introduced
to Parliament by the end of January 2004. A proposed law against money laundering
and the funding of terrorism was prepared by the Central Bank of the Congo and
examined by ECOFIN in October 2003. The government will introduce it to Parliament
bythe endo fJanuary 2004. This bill takes IMFand World Bank comments into account.

B.       Managementof PublicExpenditures
30. Objectives. The govemment aims to strengthen budgetary and financial management,
ensure transparency inthe budget process and improve the capacity for monitoring public
expenditures.6 The first step i s to reform the process o f preparing and executing the
government's budget, including: (i)          adoption o f new budgetary nomenclature; (ii)            the
restoration o f the budget execution system (including its rationalization and
computerization); (iii)    the re-establishment o f monitoring and control functions on the
expenditure system; that is, the drafting o f monitoring and control statements at the
various steps in the system; (iv) the development o f an electronic information exchange
system on government budget execution between the Central Bank and the Treasury; (v)
the development of a government code o f double entry accounting system; (vi) a
complete reform o f the procurement system; and (vii) a complete audit o f government
management ofpersonnel costs and the re-organization o f the payroll system.

1.       Achievemenis
31. The government expenditures nomenclature was completely revised by the
Ministry of Finance and Budget in July 2002. The new nomenclature presents
expenditures in three classifications: expenditures by type, administration and major
governmental function. The amended 2003 budget was presented to Parliament using the
new functional nomenclature and the 2004 budget will be so presented as well. This
nomenclature i s the basis upon which all expenditure coding in the expenditure system
will be executed from this point on, and on which all budget implementationreports will
be drafted.
32. On this subject, In June 2003, the Minister of Finance and Budget validated a new
overall system o f regulations for the handling o f public expenditures based on
rationalized and simplified procedures. This system o f regulations i s contained in the



6        Inthis overallcontext, particular importance is attributed to the managementofpoverty reduction-
related expenditures.


                                                    32

Expenditure System Manual, which has become the reference for public expenditure
procedures. It was disseminated to government officials inan official campaign.
33. The official implementation of the Treasury-Central Bank computer link took
place in August 2003. Once fully operational at the start o f 2004, it will make possible
the direct transmission o f payment orders, debit notices that correspond to them, credit
notices and Treasury account statements, among other functions.
In summary, the new expenditure system was officially launched in August 2003.
Technically, the system i s operational such that it i s already possible to carry out all
operations, from budget formulation to accounting for Treasury operations. However,
external constraints on the system persist, the most serious o f which are delays in
connecting various parts o f the system and the need for supplementarywork to ensure
the system's operational security. Once these problems are solved, it will be possible to
produce budget monitoringstatements on a regularbasis.
34. In addition, the expenditures budget for the fight against poverty using HIPC
resources was prepared in accordance with the new nomenclature. Furthermore, these
expenditures were inputted to the computer system by type, administrative (or
departmental) classification and by governmental function. For HIPC expenditures, a
separate sub-account was opened at the BCC, where resources made available by the
HIPC Initiative are deposited. A coding system for expenditures for the fight against
poverty, either HIPC or non-HIPC resources, was introduced into the computer system
through specific earmarking; that is, with codes set up according to the specificity and/or
geographical location o f the expenditure. InSeptember 2003, the Ministry o f the Budget
established a monitoring committee. It consists of members of government ministries and
institutions, civil society, and donor agency representatives. The committee's mission i s
to ensure the correct allocation o f resources and equity intheir allocation, and to monitor
the execution o fthe expenses.
35. Work on reforming the publicprocurementsystem began with World Bank support,
which organized missions in July and November 2003 with the goal o f undertaking and
completing a complete audit of the public procurement system by the end of April 2004.
This audit will cover all the legal and institutional aspects o fthis activity, which is central
to good public expenditure management.

2.       2004-05 activities
36. During the years 2004 and 2005, the main objectives are to consolidate the
rationalization and computerization o f the expenditure system. The public expenditure
monitoring system will be perfected and, with respect to expenditures for the fight against
poverty, special emphasis will be put on deepening the participatory monitoring and
evaluation through the consultative committee on monitoring expenditures related to the
fight against poverty. The government foresees beginningthe progressive extension of all
the elements involved in the expenditure system throughout the rest o f the country,
especially the rationalized procedures, the new nomenclature and its three types o f
classification, the organizational legislation, computer support, the trainingplan, etc.
37. The priorities through March 2004 focus on the pursuit of the reforms linked to
setting up the expenditure system in general, and, in particular, for the expenditures


                                              33

related to the fight against poverty, notably those funded by the budgetary saving
stemming from the HIPC Initiative. In particular, it i s worth pointing out the actual
production o f a monthly series o f budget implementation monitoring rtatements,
including the overall budget implementation report over the four execution steps, the
implementation monitoring report by administrative classification, the implementation
report by type and geographical break-out, the report by major governmental function,
and the report on the expenditures for the fight against poverty. The consultative
committee for monitoring the expenditures for the fight against poverty will be made
completely operational.
38. The work of puttingthe government's double-entry accountingsystem in place
will begin at the start o f 2004 with technical support by France. The objective is to make
the system operational by the beginning o f 2005. It is a benchmark toward the
CompletionPointof the EnhancedHIPC Initiative.
39. With respectto public procurement, the objective will be to begin reforms on the
basis o f the audit undertaken with World Bank support. Our objective i s to develop and
execute a new procurement code. The main implementation decrees will be enacted by
2006, because it is a benchmark toward the Completion Point of the Enhanced
HIPC Initiative.
40. With respect to personnel expenditures, an audit of the payroll system will be
undertaken with French Cooperation Agency support between January and the end o f
April 2004 with a view to reorganization of the implementation o f a new secure and
protected system beginningJanuary 1, 2005 (at least its provisional version). To this end,
a complete census o f government agents will be organized, the results o f which will be
used as the basis for creating a secure central government personnel file at the end o f
2004 and establishing a new payroll system.

C.      Reformof the Civil Service
 Objective. The govemment is aware that complete reform o f the civil service must
happen so as to improve its quality and the capacity o f ministries and public agencies to
provide quality basic services (health, education, etc.). The government's strategy i s
based on: (i) redefining the missions o f priority ministries and service agencies; and (ii)
increasing the quality and productivity o f the personnel. With a view to establishing a
renewed and performing system, the priority actions to undertake during the next two
years will aim to:

    (i)     Undertake a complete diagnostic o f the main ministries (their missions, how
            they operate, organizational charts, etc.);

    (ii)    Carry out an audit o f systems for service delivery, especially at the local level,
            inthe health, education andjustice sectors;

    (iii)   Undertake a complete census o f government agents; and

    (iv)    Facilitate the departure into retirement o f agents who meet the conditions o f
            age and seniority for which World Bank financing has been requested.
The audit o f service delivery systems will permit the establishment o f a basis for reform
leading to the establishment up o f a budget monitoring mechanism in the education,


                                              34

health and rural development sectors that applies to: (i) budget execution inthe fight
                                                            the
against poverty; (ii) beneficiary evaluation o f the quality o f government services; and (iii)
supplier evaluation o f the constraints of, andhandicaps to service delivery.

1.       Accomplishments
41. An Interministerial Commission and a steering committee have been formed with the
main mission o f directing and guiding the reform and overseeing the preparation of
implementation steps. Belgium actively supports the civil service reform process by
releasing a reform support fund. This fund will make it possible to carry out studies and
actions to accompany this process.

2.       The 2004-05 Program
42. The InstitutionalDiagnostic. The first phase focuses on the Civil Service Ministry
and will serve as a pilot and model for the entire reform. The study includes the review o f
missions, the organizational framework and the statutes o f this ministry. Similar studies
will be carried out for the Ministries of Finance, Budget and Planning during the first
phase. There will be two subsequent phases in which similar studies are planned for the
rest o f the civil service, as well as the optimization o f the ministries toward good
governance and increasing their efficiency, effectiveness and quality. These studies are
scheduled for 2004 and 2005.
43. Audit of service delivery systems. Within the framework of the government reform,
the government, in2004, and incollaborationwith the World Bank, wishes to analyze the
mechanisms for local service delivery in three key sectors: education, health andjustice.
For this purpose, a series o f surveys will be conductedwith service providers, both public
and private, so as to analyze the way they operate, how they are financed and the
constraints that they face inproviding services. The surveys will also bring out the user
viewpoint concerning service accessibility and quality, as well as information on how the
administrative structures in the layer above the service providers (deconcentrated and
decentralized administrations) operate. Taken together, this information will serve as the
basis for reform proposals.
44. Census. The information systems related to personnelmanagement and remuneration
have large gaps. Reflections on how to implement a census o f government agents began
in 2002. It is a matter o f "housekeeping;" spotting those who are fictive or absent from
service among those who are declared and regularly paid, and striking the former from
payrolls and personnel files, to determine precisely the number o f agents and officials in
the civil service, their identity and what they do. Therefore, the government seeks to
collect reliable information so to institute modern human resource management in the
civil service. Through this census, the Government seeks to assemble valid information in
order to: (i)remove improper or incorrect salaries from the wage bill, (ii)conduct the
statistical analysis necessary for an administrative reform, (iii)  establish a reference base
o f agents, at first to facilitate the mastery o f personnel and salary data (through the
payroll process), and also to become the pillar for a true modern management o f human
resources.
45. The TORSo f the census were drafted and validated in July 2003 by the Technical
Public Administration Reform Committee and the Civil Service Ministry. The funding


                                              35

for the census (US$3.5 million) i s now complete thanks to the participation o f Belgium,
the European Union and the African Development Bank. It has been agreed that the
Belgian Technical Cooperation Agency will have the responsibility for selecting
consultants responsible for undertaking the census inclose collaboration with the project
unitinthe CivilService Ministrythat is monitoringthe reforms.
46. The goal i s to recruit the firm that will carry out the census through international
bidding with a view to mobilizing as o f June 1, 2004. The field work should occur
during the period September - November 2004.              The census will bring about the
creation of a revised personnel file that can serve as the basis for the payroll list and be
usedby the new payroll system starting January 1, 2005. Moreover, on the basis o f the
government agent census results, a new cleaning out o f the fictional personnel and the
establishment o f a list o f active personnel eligible for the program for transition into
retirement will follow. Inaddition, the database o f government agents obtained as a result
of the census will constitute one o f the key elements in the preparation o f a thorough
reform o f the public administration.
47. Programfor transition into retirement. The program for transition into retirement
aims to: (i) restore the application o f the standard rules o f civil service management; (ii)
purge the civil service list and strike from the payroll those agents who have not been
there for many years; (iii) the retiring agents the amount to which they are entitled at
                             pay
the date o f retirement; and (iv) bring dynamism once more to the administration by
stimulatingpersonnel movement and bringingyouth into the ranks o fpersonnel.
48. The exact number of government employees eligible for retirement i s not yet known
with certainty. The figure most often cited i s about 59,500 agents (24,500 for education),
but more recent estimates place it at about 74,000, not counting those from the reunified
territories. Since the beginning of 2003, the World Bank has assisted the Civil Service
Ministryindefininga strategy for making the transition into retirement technically viable
and financially supportable, and establishing a database. A strategy and methodology
document for retiring appropriate staff was drafted, and, on that basis, the government
requested World Bank support to fund the departures into retirement o f people who will
have reached retirement age by December 31, 2004, and who have been identified as
eligible duringthe census.
49. The departures will occur intwo groups. The first group, during the second quarter
of 2004, will be those who have already left de facto without receiving their end-of-
career indemnities. The second group will occur as early as possible in 2005, and will
involve the people who have been identified during the census as being eligible for
retirementby December 31,2004.

D.       Decentralization
50. Objective. The current DRC political climate i s dominated by the issue o f national
reunification. In this perspective, all parties appear to agree on one basic postulate: the
Congo will be a unified state but strongly decentralized. It i s thus that the transition
government proposes to review the way the country i s organized and administered so as
to: (a) contribute to stability and peace; (b) encourage participation inthe management of
public affairs by the people and by social and economic actors; (c) facilitate the cultural,



                                               36

social and economic growth and development o f all groups in the population in all the
country's regions; (d) promote both qualitative and quantitative growthinthe availability
and accessibility o f public services (health, education, security, etc.); and (e) promote
good governance inpublic affairs andprivatebusiness.
51. The reform o f territorial organization and administration will be conducted from the
perspective of: (a) establishing the democratization o f public affairs; (b) ensuringgreater
proximity betweendecision-makers and those they administer, and service providers and
beneficiaries; (c) introducing the principle o f giving managers responsibilities, whether
they are elected or appointed; and (d) ensuringtransparency inthe management o fpublic
affairs and private enterprise. In fact, this involves basic principles that define the main
themes o f the government's decentralization strategy.

1.      Accomplishments
52. A working group has drafted a program o f activities expected to lead to the adoption
o f a new law on territorial organization. At the end o f June 2003, the group presenteda
working document to the Ministry o f Finance and Ministry o f the Interior that included,
among other elements, a program and timeline leading in successive steps in the
implementation o f a new administrative organization o f the Congo by June 2005. After
the formation o f the national unity government, the Ministry of the Interior,
Decentralization and Security created a new working group that included representatives
from all political persuasions and all regions o f the country, and having as its mandate the
drafting o f a law concerning territorial organization in accordance with the spirit and
letter of the Pretoria Agreement. Discussions are underway on this draft law within the
Commission Responsible for Political and Security Affairs before being submitted to the
Council o f Ministers. Consequently, the proposed law will be conveyed to Parliament for
discussion and adoption.

2.      Next actions
53. Adoption o f this draft law will prepare the way for the reform o f Congolese territorial
organization and administration. Indeed, this proposed law was conceived at the
beginning as a temporary territorial reorganization. The year 2004 will be dedicated to
pursuing actions to be taken to arrive at a method and system o f organization and
management o f public affairs that responds in the long term to the needs and desires o f
the Congolese people.
54. As the inter-ministerial team proposed in June 2003, the government proposes,
among other elements, to do the following during 2004: (a) draft an appraisal of the
administrative and financial plans o f the main subordinate administrative entities; (b)
prepare economic and financial monographs o f the mainterritorial subdivisions; (c) order
detailed and critical analyses o f the local governments' fiscal base; (d) prepare a guide for
local management; (e) develop a training program for officials and agents o f
decentralized administrative units; and (0 proceed to consultations with people on the
mandate andprerogatives o f local govemments.
55. The Government expects to pursue its reform o f territorial organization by
demonstrating transparency, realism, pragmatism, flexibility and progressiveness. The
transparency of our approach i s assured by the fact that the people will be consulted at


                                              37

the time o f the participatory surveys inherent to the PRSP process and through the
surveys on the mechanisms by which services are provided at the local level in the three
key sectors o f health, education and justice. The approach's realism requires the
government to take into account the fragility and weakness o f the fiscal base, as well as
the centrifugal forces at work in the country. Pragmatism will lead the government to
consult actors who have led or lived similar experiences elsewhere in addition to
thoroughly weighing the country's experiences in the past with respect to
decentralization. Through concem forflexibility, we will ensure that they reorganize each
sector in terms o f its own set o f issues, promoting centralization, deconcentration,
decentralization, devolution or privatization according to situations and circumstances.
Finally, wherever and whenever it can, the Government expects to adopt aprogressive
approach by conducting pilot experiences and proceeding to test examples in the sectors
andregions that appear most promising.

E.     Judicialsystem
56. With respect to the judicial system, an operational audit began inOctober 2003 with
the support o f the European Union, and the report planned for end-December 2003 is
now expected during the first quarter o f 2004. This audit, which was carried out
nationwide, had the goal o f assessing thejudicial system. On this basis, an action plan for
sector reform will be established. At the same time, actions are planned to improve the
legal andjudicial environment for business.

11. FINANCIAL SECTOR
57. Objectives. An important part of the economic reform program concerns the
rehabilitation and development o f the financial sector with a view to reviving financial
intermediation. There are three components: (a) reform of the legal and regulatory
framework that regulates the banking sector; (b) restructuring o f the Central Bank and
improvement o f its management; and (c) the restructuring o f the commercial banks.

1.     Accomplishments
58. The legal and regulatory framework was completely revised in 2002 through the
adoption of new laws regulating the Central Bank, bankingactivities, as well as those o f
savings and credit cooperatives. The Central Bank i s inthe process of restructuring with
the support and technical assistance o f the Intemational Monetary Fund. With respect to
commercial banks, it was decided in March 2003 to proceed to the actual liquidation o f
three public commercial banks (BCCE, NBK and BCA). Inaddition, a series of audits o f
other commercial banks, which were undertaken with the financial assistance o f the
World Bank, were finalized in September 2003. They involved: (a) updating the audit
already carried out o f four banks, including the Banque Commerciale du Congo
(Commercial Bank o f the Congo - BCDC), the Union des Banques Congolaises (Union
o f Congolese Banks - UBC), the Banque Internationale de Cre`dit (International Credit
Bank - BIC), and the Stanbic Bank; and (b) complete audits of five commercial banks
that had not yet been audited, including the Banque de Commerce et de De`veloppement

pour I'Afrique au Congo (Intemational Bank for Africa, Congo - BIAC), the Banque
(Bank o f Commerce and Development - BCD), CITIBANK, the Banque Internationale

Congolaise (the Congo Bank), and the First Banking Corporation (FBC).            The banks


                                            38

deemed viable on the basis o f the audits were requested to prepare and finalize recovery
plans before the end of January 2004, the goal o f which was, among other things, to
ensure adherence to prudential standards and a realistic business plan.

2.       Actionsfor 2004-2005
59. In 2004, for the banks deemed to be viable through the audits, a formal agreement
with the BCC will be established concerning restructuring plans, as finalized in
December 2003, with an implementation timetable and performance indicators.
Moreover, the government will withdraw the operating authority o f banks found to be
non-viable by the above-mentioned audits. With respect to BCCE, B C A and NBK,
independentliquidators funded with World Bank support will be appointed by the end of
March 2004 subject to completion o f the recruitment process by the BCECO, with a
view to initiating liquidation operations immediately thereafter. Furthermore, we strongly
hope that the programfor staff departures for these three banks will be completed, thanks
to World Bank funding (Private Sector Competitiveness andDevelopment Project).
60. The other 2004 objectives are the following: bank supervision will be strengthened
through the establishment o f a regular system o f document control; improvement o f the
prudentialframework will continue through the strengthening o f approval procedures and
eligibility criteria for stockholders. The BCC will issue appropriate instructions to that
effect. A new bank accountability plan will be prepared for implementation as o f
January 1, 2005. Finally, an appropriate legal framework for regulating non-mutual
microfinance institutions will be prepared.

111.     Private Sector Development
61. Objective. The objective i s to set up a business climate that would promote the
growth o f competitive enterprises able to create new jobs. The steps involved are: (i)
improvement o f the investment environment, both for national and foreign investors
(legal and regulatory framework, business tax system, finalization o f the Labor and
Commercial Codes); and (ii)     settlement o f the domestic debts to enterprises. The reforms
are all-inclusive and should also facilitate reform o f public enterprises. Inaddition, it will
be necessary to create the institutions and instruments necessary for economic regulation
and fair competition.

1. Accomplishments since 2001
62. With respect to the legal framework, one major reform was initiated in 2002 with
the approval o f new investment and labor codes. A new mining code was published in
2002 and its main implementation decrees were issued in2003. A new forestry code was
promulgated in 2002 and its implementing decrees are presently being developed. In-
depth study o f overall business legal system reform (company, business and insurance
law) i s inprogress.
63. At the judicial level, commercial courts were created in 2002 and key personnel
designated in 2003. The physical infrastructure i s being rehabilitated. Moreover, to
facilitate the resolution o f commercial disputes, a national arbitration center was created
by ministerial decree on June 18, 2003, its office established and about 30 arbitrators
registered.


                                               39

64. The creation o f ANAPI in 2002 should facilitate investment promotion and
administrative operations. It should have a similar impetus to the foreign trade
promotion following the creation o f the Single Customs Counter at the port o f Matadi,
which became operational inJuly 2003.
65. In the area of regulation, the Telecommunications Regulatory Agency has been
created. Work on the development o f the sector policy continues and i s giving special
attention to the issue o fpricing interconnections. A mining cadastre has beenestablished.
A regulatory agency for transport is inthe process o fbeing created.
66. With respect to taxation, reviews o f the revenue and customs system were
undertaken with IMF and World Bank assistance. The result was the publication o f a new
customs tariff (the objective o f which is to rationalize the structure o f effective protection
o f the domestic market) and significant reforms undertaken with respect to indirect
taxation (the introduction o f whose deductibility at the level o f the turnover tax with a
view to improve local industry competitiveness vis-&vis the intemational market and, at
the same time, prepare the way for a VAT. The turnover tax on exports has been
eliminated. Furthermore, in November 2003,the government temporarily suspended the
application o f a certain number o f tax and para-fiscal fees pending the preparation o f an
overall action plan for the reform o f taxation and para-fiscal levies on businesses, to be
prepared with World Bank support in2004.
67. Internal debt. An audit o f government payment arrears to the private sector was
completed inSeptember 2003 for debts incurred between July 1, 1997, and December 31,
2001, The total amount o f debt certified by an independentauditor was fixed at US$207
million. Similar work for debts generated before June 30, 1997, should be completed by
the end o f January, 2004. The Internal Debt Commission i s being created and will
support this work on the results o fthese audits so as to develop an agreement with private
creditors and a payment schedule.

2.       Objectivesfor 2004 and 2005
68. In the legal field, the work on the reform and modernization o f the legal framework
will continue, centered on an in-depth study o f the implementation o f an OHADA-style
unified statute with a view to implementationbefore long.
69. In the judicial area, a training program for judges, assessors and their legal
auxiliaries will be undertaken with World Bank funding. The work on making the
commercial courts fully operational and reinforcing arbitration centers i s proceeding.
70. In the area of taxation, from now to the end of June 2004, we will place emphasis
on the preparation o f an action plan andimplementation timetable for the reform o f direct
and indirect taxation o f enterprises with a view to its progressive application during the
second semester of 2004.7                For customs and external commerce procedures, the
objective i s to issue a new customs code by June 2004. The restructuring o f OFIDA will
be done within the framework o fthe reformo fpublic enterprises.


7       Inthis context, the consultant selectionprocedure hasjust begun, althoughthe work willbe done
during the first quarter of 2004, whereas the original timetable called for the completion o f the work and
the implementation o f the reforms starting January 1, 2004.


                                                    40

71. For labor regulation, the objective i s to finalize and adopt the main implementing
decrees for the Labor Code during 2004. However, the implementation timetable for this
objective will flow into the conclusion o f tripartite discussions (government, unions and
employers) concerning the content o f these decrees. We are very concerned about
ensuring that the provisions o f the decrees in question do not handicap either
competitiveness or the creation o f new jobs through overprotection o f the existing
employees' interests.
72. Procedures and administrative harassment. In this area, an audit will be
undertaken duringthe first quarter o f 2004 with World Bank support (Foreign Investment
Advisory Service - FIAS) with the goal o f preparing and implementinga comprehensive
reform program as soon as possible thereafter.
73. Internaldebt. The key objectives for 2004 are: (i)     complete the process o f certifying
and reconciling the government's private enterprise debt; (ii)      negotiate the settlement o f
these debts with creditors; and (iii)  proceed to settlement. Inthis respect, we request the
support o f the World Bank Group through the proposed Post-Reunification Economic
Recovery Credit that will support the Government's Economic Program. The action plan
for settling the internal debt shouldbeprepared duringthe first quarter of 2004.
74. Centralizedpayments. At present, and for many years, the payment o f centralized
utility expenses has been made extremely late - which, for the corresponding utilities
(particularly SNEL and Rkgideso), constitutes a substantial cash flow deficit and
considerably handicaps their capacity to provide services. We wish to find a definitive
solution to this problem over the next two years as follows:

    0   The preparation by the end o f December 2003 and implementation from January
        2004 o f an action plan for mastering the common expenses o f the public sector
        departments and agencies whose common expenses are included inthe budget;

        The payment of the centralized expenses (especially water and electricity) starting
        January 1, 2004, through full monthly lump-sum payments computed on the basis
        o f estimated consumption, until the implementation o f systems involving meters
        and billing based on actual consumption.
We also intend to ensure that the priority use for the resources freed up by these
supplementary payments by the enterprises concemed will be to increase service
availability to low-income individual consumers, both in quantity and quality. In this
area, we await significant World Bank technical and financial support.

IV.      Reformof Publicly-ownedEnterprises
75. Aware o f the necessity for a public-private partnership to revive the economy, the
government has developed a strategy for reforming the public enterprise sector. The
objectives o f this reform are: (a) to ensure that public utilities are sustainably provided on
a commercial basis by calling upon the support of the private sector as much as
needed in different forms (partnership, concession, partial or total sale of shares);
and (b) to reduce the quasi-fiscal costs o f poor management o f the public enterprises
and/or their reorganization.




                                               41

76. Thus, the preparatorywork for the reform already enabled the government to produce
an audit o f public enterprises, making it possible to identify the mainproblemsrelated to
the govemance o f these enterprises. A workshop on reform took place under the
leadership o f the President o f the Republic in September 2001. The Public Enterprise
Reform Steering Committee (COPIREP) was created by Presidential Decree No.
136/2002 o f October 30, 2002. The role o f this committee i s to prepare and establish the
reform, especially through a diagnostic o f all public enterprises via financial and
operational audits and to formulate reform proposals. The Committee has been in fact
operationalsince July 2003.
77. An accounting, functional and operational diagnostic o f certain enterprises, which
began in November 2002, was presented to the government in April 2003, and now
serves as the basis for the sector working groups guided by the COPIREP. The following
are the steps to be followed at this point: (a) the establishment o f the sector working
groups intended to assist in defining the reform's strategic aspect; (b) the definition o f a
timetable identifying the steps of the restructuring of, and/or divestiture o f the
government from certain key enterprises; and (c) the development o f an organizational
framework' to be submittedto Parliament.
78. Studies have made it possible to assess the payment arrears, as well as the payments
necessary for the eventual departure of certain OCPT agents within the framework o f the
presently envisaged restructuring, and the employees concerned inthe liquidation of the
NBK, BCCE and BCA. Once negotiated, the social cost o f these departures will be
fundedbythe World Bank's Private Sector Development Credit.

2.        Actions to be carried out in 2004-2005
79. The following are the main objectives to meet in 2004: first, institutionally, we will
establish the COPIREP Technical Committee, which is the agency responsible for
designing, guiding and following up on the public enterprise reform process, and
responsible for approving: (i)        the technical studies developedby the COPIREP Executive
Secretariat before they are submitted to the government; and (ii)                 the reform proposals
prepared by the sector working groups. Secondly,we expect to make the sector working
groups fully operational and carry out studies on the public enterprise reform process in
the sectors deemed priorities.
80. The third objective is to prepare action plans during the year for a certain number o f
key enterprises, notably for the reform of Gecamines, the RVA, the SNCC, LAC,
Cititrain, OCPT and the SNEL.' We hope that the payment o f the amounts that allow the
voluntary departure of employees within the framework o f restructuring the OCPT, as
well as for employees concerned inthe liquidation o f the NBK, BCCE and B C A banks,
can be carried out by June 2004.
81. Fourthly, we will prepare and have the Parliament adopt a revamping of the legal
and regulatory framework that regulates public enterprises (general dispositions for
public enterprises, registry law for public enterprises, a law disengaging the State from

* Including
      ~




             the legal frameowrk on public enterprises, the law on government divestiture and sector laws.
 Environmentalpre-audits o f the SNCC, Citytrain, RVA, LAC, OCPT, and SNEL were also completed,
thus facilitating the preliminary restructuring or reformo fthese enterprises.


                                                       42

  public enterprises and the diverse forms o f participation or association o f the private
  sector in PES.)Indeed, the current legal and regulatory system i s not satisfactory, either
  for the management o f public enterprises or for the promotion o f public-private
  partnerships, an essential public enterprise reform element.
  82. And fifthly, we intend to improve the public enterprise institutional capacity for
  management and supervision. On this point, the terms o f reference for the recruitment o f
  consultants/specialists are being drafted with a view to: (i)  completing the work in the
  first half of 2004; and (ii)proceeding to the development o f an action plan inthe second
  part of the year with a view to its implementationas soon as possible thereafter.

  V.      Natural Resources
  83. Objectives.        Inboth sectors (forestry and mining), the overall objective is that
  the significant public assets o fthe DRC contribute better to the economic recovery, rural
  development and poverty reduction through conservation o f the integrity o f the
  ecosystems and the environment over the long term. The specific reforms aim to:
              Improve governance and transparency in the management o f forest and
              mineral resources through the adoption o f new legal and regulatory
              frameworks (the mining code, the forestry code), which are favorable to the
              participation o f private investment in the sectors and contribute to equitable
              and sustainable economic growth inthe environmental field;
              Make access to forest and mineral resources clearer and more equitable;
              this also applies to the benefits stemmingfrom their exploitation;
              Strengthen the institutional capacity of both sectors to enforce adherence
              to the new legal and regulatory framework;
              Better secure the rights (property and others) o f all stakeholders;
              Rapidly rehabilitate mine production in an economic, environmental and
              socially sustainable manner; and
              Reform public mining enterprises and reduce government participation in
              production activities.

  A.      The Forestry Sector
  84. The govemment's priority agenda for reviving the forestry sector is geared to
  ensuring that these important public assets contribute better to economic recovery and to
  rural development, by conserving both the integrity o f ecosystems over the long term and
  their environmental services. The reforms in progress within the framework o f this
  priority depend entirely on the implementation o f the new Forestry Code. Their aim is: (i)

I to make access to forest resources and access to the benefits o f their exploitation clearer
  and more equitable; and (ii) facilitate the recovery o f the lumber industry by ensuring
                                 to
  that it will be carried out sustainably and in the long-term interests o f the national
  community.

  1.     Accomplishments
  85. In 2002, in addition to getting the new Forestry Code adopted, our priority was to
  review the existing concessions so as to examine their conformance with their main
  contract clauses and ensure the return to the public domain o f concessions that were not


                                                43

reclaimed and/or not exploited per the terms o f the contracts. The government has
cancelled 140 o f 300 contracts, and the work will continue in2004.
86. The government also decided to put into place a moratorium on the granting o f new
contracts pending the definition o f new methods o f adjudication, notably bidding, set
forth inthe new Forestry Code.

2.       Actions to be carried out in 2004-2005
87. In 2003, the government completed an economic review o f the forest products
subsector, the recommendations from which, presented in the form o f scenarios, are
being examined by the government. Their aim is to simplify the forester fiscal structure,
reduce overall fiscal pressure and secure recovery procedures. Rebalancing the taxation
consists o f reducing export fees on logs, as well as para-fiscal charges particularly in the
area o f transportation by progressively raising the acreage tax so as to encourage the
economic utilization o f forests. On the whole, these measures should contribute to the
sector's recovery and its contribution to the economy, as well as an increase inthe forest-
related rent returnedto the State.
88. By the end of 2004, the following actions are envisaged. In the short term, by the
end of December 2003, we anticipate the completion o f the work related to the
adjustment o f the acreage tax and reduction o f para-fiscality inthe transportation system,
as well as the export fees on logs. Ifnecessary, these measures could go into effect as o f
January 1, 2004. Secondly, by the end of March 2004, we expect to publishthe results
o f the recovery o f the acreage tax for 2003 and to apply the contractual provisions that set
forth the cancellation o f the contracts o f companies that have not met their acreage tax
obligations. Thirdly, we expect to launch the program o f converting former contracts
into sustainable management concessions, per the new Forestry Code. This program will
be carried out with the support o f an independentobserver and will be completed within
12 months. Expired contracts or those in default will be cancelled and the new list o f
valid concessions will be published.
89. In addition, in 2004, the government will continue to apply the moratorium on any
allocations o f forest ownership by mutual agreement. It will operationalize the Forest
Income Security Program, which will be managed jointly by the Ministries o f Finance
and the Environment. The 40% share o f the acreage tax will in fact be relent to local,
decentralized entities. The application laws for the new Forestry Code (adjudication o f
concessions, management and exploitation, control o f illegal exploitation) will be
adopted. Finally, the new law on the Nature Conservation will be submitted to
Parliament.

B.MiningSector
90. In the mining sector, we are emphasizing: (i) o f the legal, regulatory and
                                                       reform
institutional framework; (ii) restructuring o f Gecamines; and (iii) audit o f the diamond
                                                                    an
sector.




                                              44

1.      Accomplishments
91. Legal, regulatory and institutional framework. The new Mining Code was
promulgated by the President o f the Republic on July 11, 2002, following its adoption by
the Parliament, andthe new miningregulations (Decree No. 038/2003) was approved on
March 26, 2003. The new miningcadastre (CAMI) became operational inJune 2003.
92. With respect to restructuring Gecamines, we first implemented a program o f
voluntary departures covering about 10,500 people with World Bank support. This
program began on August 11, 2003, i s going very satisfactorily and shouldbe completed
in January 2004. Parallel to that program, we have asked the society IMC to carry out a
strategic audit. The diagnostic part was completed in March 2003, and approvedby the
government in June 2003. The consultant was then asked to prepare options for
restructuring the company and presenting his conclusions to ECOFIN at the end of
September 2003.
93. On the basis of this report, the Government i s examining the strategic choices
for a definitive restructuringof this enterprise.

2.      Actions to be taken by the end of 2004
94. Legal, regulatory and institutional framework. For the legal and institutional
reform o f the mining sector, in 2004 emphasis will be placed on the dissemination o f the
MiningCode and restructuringthe miningcadastre. For that, the government will widely
disseminate the law texts and carry out training campaigns on the new procedures by the
end of March2004.
95. Moreover, the government will restructure the management o f the cadastre (land
register) and establish financial management and audit provisions, as well as the
monitoring and evaluating cadastre performance by the end of March 2004, so as to
preserve the credibility of the new legal framework for the miningsector and the integrity
of the mining administration. At the same time, the Mining Securities Validation
Commission will be established, and its members appointed, by the end of February
2004, to analyze conflicts over miningrights. Itwill proceed immediately to a clean-up o f
miningtitles with the objective ofresolving at least 85% o fthe conflicts identified, bythe
end of June 2004.
96. With respect to restructuring Gecamines, the consultants hired to examine the
partnership agreements and prepare the bye-laws o f the new company should begin their
work in January 2004, and submit their final reports by the end of June 2004. This
should make it possible to validate in its final form the government's restructuring
strategy between July and September 2004, and present it to Parliament by the end of
December 2004, in the context o f a Gecamines restructuring law that would define the
program o f activities and the institutions with the mandate to implement it, and would
authorize the annulment o f the company's shares or their transfer to a partnership. We
think that the approach described above, including the adoption o f a special law, is the
best way to ensure success inthe restructuring o f Gecamines.




                                             45

VI.      Social sectors
97. Objectives for the period 2003-2005.         The government's program focuses on
significant reforms inthe social sectors (health, education and social protection) by 2005.
We note the following in particular: (a) the completion o f sector studies and preparation
of sector strategies with costs, which will constitute benchmarks toward the completion
of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative; and (b) the rehabilitation o f infrastructures. In the
context, these sectors benefit from significant IDA technical and financial support
through the Emergency Multi-Sector Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program
(EMRRP). Inthe context of this project, "physical" performance indicators have been
defined.

1.      Accomplishments
98.Health. Within the framework o f the EMRRP, eight contracts have been signed with
the Delegated Contractors (DC), representing a contemplated total o f $41.8 million o f
assistance to the 67 health areas targeted by the project. The Ministry's proposal for the
institutional capacity building part o f the E M W at provincial and national levels i s
being finalized. As expected, the Ministry o f Health launched the Health-Poverty Status
Report (HPSR) in September 2003 so as to set forth the sector diagnostic and initiate a
dialogue on healthproblems.
99.Education. The govemment i s presently rehabilitating 140 schools that have been
selected by the project during the period. The National Educational System Status Report
(NESSR) i s inprogress and the preliminary recommendations should be disseminated in
the weeks to come. This basic diagnostic will constitute the starting point for: (i)the
development o f the sector strategy; and (ii) an action plan for meeting the criteria o f the
"Education for All" Program.
100.    Social Protection.Qualitative studies on the risks and vulnerability o f the poor, as
well as those on the handicapped in the DRC, were carried out in 2002-03, and are
presently beingpublished.A proposal for a special social fund i s presentlybeing studied.
Finally, the implementation manual for the EMRRP "vulnerable group" sub-component
was adopted and a first group o f eight micro-projects have beenchosen for IDA funding.

2.      Actions plannedfor 2004-2005
101.    Health. By March 2004, the acceleration o f the implementation o f the 8 D C
contracts should lead to visible results in improving basic service provision to the people
covered by the EMRRP Project. The work o f the Ministry of Health should be facilitated
by the implementationof the $7 million earmarked for institutional support at provincial
and central government levels. A preliminary version o f the HPSR i s expected to be
completed with World Bank support. The final version of the HPSR will be available in
October 2004. It will be the basis for discussions on the DRC's overall sector strategy
and will make it possible to make progress in the definition o f the PRSP. This strategy
will make it possible to initiate reflection during the period 2004-05 on sector reform
within the regulatory and budgetary framework.
102.    Education.    The action plan for the "Education for All" Program will be
presented to the donor community in M a r c h 2004. With respect to the rehabilitation o f


                                             46

infrastructure, the works should be in the final phase o f rehabilitation by the end of
March 2004. The preliminary results o f the NESSR will also have been largely
disseminated by the end of March 2004. The final version o f the NESSR should be
available in August 2004, which would make it possible to prepare the sector strategy.
Like health, it will constitute an important element o f the PRSP and a benchmark toward
the CompletionPoint o fthe Enhanced HIPC Initiative.
103.    Social Protection. An overall sector program will be developed duringthe next
few months based on studies in progress and could be ready by the end o f June 2004.
This strategy will include: (i)the government's actions in the area o f social protection;
(ii) actionsofpartnersinthatarea;and(iii) budgetandfundingsourcesforthese
    the                                           the
activities.

VII. Agriculture andRuralDevelopment
104.    Objectives. Inrural development, our objectives for the period 2003-05 are: (i)
improvement inthe food security o f rural populations; and (ii) development o f a medium-
and long-term rural development strategy with a view to achieving sustained growth in
agricultural production and incomes. This strategy i s a benchmark toward the Completion
Point o fthe Enhanced HIPC Initiative, presentlyplanned for the third quarter o f2006.
105.    To increaseagriculturalproductioncapacity, the government, for the 2002-03
agricultural year, implemented (with EMRRP Project support) a seed multiplication
program (cassava, corn, leguminous cultures). In addition, a pilot rehabilitation program
over 32 ha. o f rice growing area i s being launched with Chinese assistance, the objective
by 2005 being the rehabilitation of 850 ha. Finally, studies for a major program o f
improved aviculture, improvement in the breeding o f small ruminants, the recovery o f
fish farming and traditional fishing are being prepared and should start up at the
beginningof 2004.
106.    Improvement in the efficiency o f agricultural product marketing will be the result
o f a rehabilitation program for nearly 5,000 km. o f rural roads by June 2005. The works
in the program's first phase, supported by the EMRRP and covering 1,200 km., should
begin by February 2004 (eight months later than planned). In the meantime, civil
engineeringworks (bridge rehabilitation) began in June 2003. Also, we plan to establish
an agricultural product price information system, which should be operational by June
2004.
107.    With respect to the development of a rural development strategy, the two
main themes are: (i) revival of the main ago-industrial systems (oil palm, cotton,
                        the
cacao, Robusta and Arabica coffee, rubber); and (ii)the development o f small and
medium-size private enterprises. The related studies should be launched in the first
quarter of 2004, at the same time that a study on the ago-industry regulatory and fiscal
environment will be carried out. The results o f these studies, as well as the experience o f
implementing activities linked to the revival o f production and improvement of
community infrastructures will establish the bases for the formulation o f the rural
development strategy.




                                             47

Viii. The InfrastructureSector (Roads,Electricity andWater)
108.    We have two objectives in the infrastructure area: (a) rehabilitation of
infrastructures at the national level; and (b) modernization of the legal and
regulatoryframework for the key sectors, notably energy and water. Our efforts in
the infrastructure rehabilitation area have, up to now, been largely funded by the Bank
through: (i) Emergency Rehabilitation and ReconstructionProject (EMRRP) for $454
              the
million, which covers the westem and southem parts o f the country, that is, the "secure"
provinces at the time that the project began implementation in September 2002; (ii)      the
"budget support" component o fthe Economic RecoveryCredit ($42 million); and (iii)       the
Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Project, whose infrastructure component
i s over $120 million (of a total $214 million). This project essentially involves the
northwestem provinces which have retumed to                government control after the
reunification. This important project beganinNovember 2003.

A.      PhysicalRehabilitationWorks
109.    The Emergency Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (EMRRP): The
objective of the EMRRP is to give long-termimpetusto the economic rehabilitation
and reconstruction.
110.    This project covers the following sectors: transportation, electricity, potable water
and urbanutilities.

1.      Accomplishmentsfrom June 2002 to September 2003
111. The intemational firm responsible for being the main contractor by Ministry o f
Finance delegation was selected in November 2002 and became active in M a y 2003.
Starting then, it initiated studies on the entire program. Considering the importance of the
infrastructure works to undertake, specific studies are necessary to definethe exact nature
o f the works. It i s therefore clear that the first year i s dedicated to studies and,
consequently, no visible works would be seen at first. Nevertheless, all the activities have
beguninall project components.

2.      Accomplishmentsfrom March 2003 to September 2005
112.    The plannedaccomplishments over the next two years are summarized as follows:
    >   Roads: All the studies have been initiated for about 3,000 km. o f roads. The
        works should begin in July 2004 after the selection o f firms through an
        intemational call for bids, and should be completed two years later.
    >   Transportation: The studies have been initiated for all sectors (RVM, Onatra,
        RVF, SNCC, CNPR, etc.).           The works could begin April 1, 2004, and be
        completedwithin two years.
    >   Electricity::An important study beganin October 2003 concerning the status of
        the SNEL facilities and will last 11 months. Urgent works with a view to
        increasing the reliability o f system capacity to 600 MW could begin during the
        first quarter o f 2004. However, the major rehabilitation works will not begin until
        2005 and will take about three years.



                                               48

     P Water: The studies for Kinshasa havebeencompletedandthe call for bidsfor the
         works i s being launched. The beginning o f the works i s planned for April 2004
         after the selection o f the firms. These works will last 18-24 months. In addition,
         the master plan i s being prepared. For institutional reform, the TORS are being
         developed.
     P Urban rehabilitation: The studieshave been completed; two calls for bids have
        been launched and contracts awarded. These two significant urban rehabilitation
         labor markets (Avenue Kasavubu and the Selembao erosions) shouldbegin at the
         start o f 2004 and be completed by the endof 2005.

Economic Recovery Credit
113.    Moreover, within the framework of the budget support operation initiated in2001
(ERC I),  $42 million was allocated to small- and medium-scale projects having, however,
a visible and immediate socioeconomic impact.

Accomplishments
114.    This financial package, directed by the BCeCo as delegated chief contractor, was
released in December 2002. It i s now entirely committed and must be 70% expended by
the end o f 2003. These funds have been used up to the limit o f about 90% to fund
infrastructure projects (roads and buildings) and technical equipment, essentially in
transportation (70%), health and education. Because o ftransportation and communication
difficulties, the truly vast majority (80%) o f the projects are, however, in or near
Kinshasa. The works will be completedby the end o fMarch 2004.

Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Project.
115.    The project's objective is to assist the government in the economic and social
reunification process, and generate peace dividends that will contribute to the country's
stabilization by funding rehabilitation activities in the eastem part of the country, where
no major economic assistance program has yet beenestablished.
116.    There are two infrastructure programs:

    0   A road infrastructure program ($90 million) with, inparticular, the rehabilitation
        o f two strategic arteries: Kisangani - Beni and Mbuji-Mayi - Bukavu. The project
        will also fund the last road section between the port o f Matadi and the Mpozo
        bridgeto complete the overall rehabilitation o fthe road between Kinshasa and the
        Port o f Matadi.

    0   An urban rehabilitation program ($30 million) involving, in one portion, four
        provincial capitals (Kisangani, Goma, Bukavu, Kindu), and, inthe other, activities
        invarious cities inthe country.
The program shouldbegin at the start o f2004.

B.      Reform of the Legal and Regulatory Framework in the Energy Sector
117.    In 2004, we expect to revise the legal and regulatory framework that regulates
activities in the energy field (petroleum, electricity and water). We have begun this


                                              49

process by holding a Water RoundTable in October and we plan to do the same thing for
the electricity sector in January 2004. In both cases, this i s the first step in a process o f
discussions that we deem essential for facilitating the preparation o f legislation that
reflects a consensus shared by all stakeholders and the presentation o f corresponding
draft laws for submission to the National Assembly at the end o fthe year.
Please accept, Mr.President, my highest regards.


                             Dr ANDRE-PHILIPPE FUTA
                                   Minister of Finance




                                           50

 A Monsieur James D. WOLFENSONHN
    Presidentdu Groupede la BanqueMondiale

    a Washinpton, D.C., USA




trimestre de l'an 2001 et s'est engage immediatement a (i)restaurer la paix, (ii)a
4.          Dansce contexte, unnouveau Gouvernement a pris ses fonctions au premier

normaliser les relations avec les creanciers exterieurs, a (iii)relancer la croissance et a
engager la lutte contre ia pauvrete.

5.          Sur le plan politique, nous sommes heureux de constater que nos efforts pour
renforcer le processus de paix et le dialogue inter-congolais, qui s'est tenu A Lusaka et a
Sun City, ont eu des rdsultats positifs et encourageants. Un Gouvemement inclusif de
transition, regroupanttoutes les parties prenantes, a pris ses fonctions le 30 juin 2003. Le
pays est maintenant reunifie.

6.          Sur le plan economique, nos efforts ont donne lieu a un fort soutien, a partir
de Juin 2002,      de la communaute financiere intemationale, notamment le Fonds
Monetaire Intemational,       la Banque mondiale (plus           exactement     1'Association
Intemationale pour le Developpement), la Banque Africdne de Developpement et de
nombreux crdanciers bilateraux.

7.          C'est le cas de l'apurement des arrieres exterieurs vis-a-vis des institutions
multilaterales enjuidjuillet 2002 pour lequel le Fonds Monetaire Intemational a accord6
unsoutien de 580 millions de DTS. Dememe, la Banque mondiale a approuve unCredit
de Relance Economique de 360.4 millions de DTS, uncredit de 358.8 millions de DTS
pour soutenir le Programme Multi-sectoriel d'Urgence             de RChabilitation et de
Reconstruction (PMURR). En septembre 2002, les pays membres du Club de Paris ont
accord6 un reechelonnement de leurs creances selon les termes de Naples. La bonne
execution de notre programme depuis juin 2002 a dte couronnee les 24-25 juillet 2003
par I'admission de la RDC au Point de Decision de 1'Initiative PPTERenforcee a l'issue
des reunions des Conseils d'Administration du FMI et de la Banque mondiale ;ce qui a
permis de reduire le stock de notre dette de 13 a 1,5 milliards de dollars. A ce propos,
nous espdrons atteindre le point d'ach8vement d'ici trois ans.               Par ailleurs, en
septembre-octobre 2003, la Banque mondiale a approuve trois autres CrCdits :(i)le Projet
d'Appui au Ddveloppement du Secteur Prive pour 87.1 millions de DTS, (ii) Projet de
                                                                                  le
soutien a la Reunification Economique et Social pour 152.7 millions de DTS et (iii)le
Projet de soutien aux exportations de 1'6lectriciti vers 1'Afiique australe. Par ailleurs,
deux autres projets sont en preparation(HIV AIDsMDRP).

8.          Toutefois, retablir la paix et avancer dans la lutte contre la pauvrete sur
I'ensemble du territoire, nouvellement rduni, constitue un dCfi Cnorme qui demande un
appui continu de la communauti intemationale pour plusieurs annees encore.              Pour
augmenter de faCon significative le niveau de vie de la population entiere, reduire

sensiblement la pauvretk, ilnous faudra (a) une                      ique forte et soutenue
pendant des decennies, (b) des budgets pro-p                         dans les secteurs de
l'kducation, de la santd et des infrastructures et (c               conomique gtnerale et
des politiques structurelles et sectorielles bienad




9.           C'est dans ce contexte que le Gouverne           icite un soutien sous forme
d'un. Credit de Developpement d'au moins 150                    de dollars US,      pour le
financement de notreprogramme Cconomiquepour I                 2004 et 2005 en generalet
en particulier pour (i)  l'apurement partiel de la dett
2001, (ii)le paiement des indemnitts de                         re pour environ 70.000
fonctionnaires ayant dkj9 atteint l'tlge de la retr              travaux publics d'impact
visible a l'echelon national. A ce props,                       .oint politique est basee
                                                                      dkcrit la Politique de
Ddveloppement du Gouvemement pour la p6rio                       Cette
sur les trois piliers du DSRP-I, approuve par les              Administration de I'IDA et
du FMI en juin 2002, iisavoir : (i)la promotion               lite macrotconomique et la
relance de la croissance pro-pauvre; (ii)   la re                 x et l'amklioration de la
gouvernance ;et (iii)   le renforcement de la                         re. Le memorandum
et la matrice des politiques y affdrente trait

                Cadresmacroeconomique et budgktaire
                Preparation de la strategiede reduction de lapauvrett
                Restauration de lapaix et amelioration de la gouvemance
                Politiques structurelles et sectorielles

I1 y a lieu de noter aussi que la bonne exec             des mesures decrites dans le
mkmorandum ci-dessous devrait nous permettre                           r vers la realisation
des rep6res structurels din d'atteindre le       PO                  dans le contexte de
I'hitiative PPTERenforcCe, soit au 4' trimestre

CADRESMACROECONOMIQUEETBUDGET

10.     Le defi iirelever en matitre de croissance          ionde la pauvretC est Cnorme.
Par exemple, pour atteindre le niveau de rev                   1990, ilfaudrait 40 ans si
I'on suppose un taw annuel de croissance du                    % et untam de croissance
de la population de 3 %et 60 ans pour atteindr                 de 1960. Pour realiser cet
objectif, ilfaudra non seulement untam d                       endant des dCcennies, mais
aussi des budgetspro-pauvres et des politique                       rielles adapttes.

11.     C'est dans la perspective de vaincre 1                que nous avons c o n p le
Programme Intkrimaire Renforce(PIR) couvr                          -2002 et le Programme
Economique du Gouvernement (PEG) depuis                            es ont deja beneficit du
soutien de la communautt financihre inte                            r le FMI, la BM et la

BAD. Nous avons aussi pubendficierd'un rddchel
dette exterieuredans le contextedu Club de Paris et

12.       Le PIR et le PEG ont deja donne lieu                       s probants. Aprh une
degradation de la situation au cours des quatre annees (1997-2000) avec une baisse du
PIB de 5,5 YOpar an en moyenne et une hyper-inflation b un taux annualisk de 635,l %
durant laperiode dejanvier a mai2001, l'effort entrepris par le Gouvernementet la BCC
dans le cadreduPIR, le taux d'inflation achute a 25 % en 2002 et 13 %en 2003. Le taux
de croissance, ndgatif pour toute la dCcennie 1991-2000, a aitteint 3 % en 2002 et 5 % en
2003.

13,     Sur le planexttrieur, le taw de change apr6-sla devduation initiale du 2001 s'est
stabilise, moyennant quelques fluctuations, aux al
Le deficit du compte courant, avant alkgement de                 resenhit 10-11 % du PIB.
Mais, griice A la reduction du servic                             auprb de nos creanciers
bilatbaux et multilateraux dans le contexte du
Renforcde, le ddficit du compte courant, aprks a                            serait infkrieur a
1% du PIB. Ceci devrait nous permettre m e ac                         s reserves exdrieures
brutes de 22 A 272 millions de dollars e

14.     Sur le plan des finances publiques, l'extk               du programme a permis
d'augmenter les recettes de 6.2 % du PIB en                            03. Ceci, assorti de
l'aide exterieure (bien que plus faible que prevue                  s dons (mais hors aide
humanitaire),nous a permis d'augmenter nos dkp                       du PIB en 2001 a 15.2
% du PIB, impliquantundeficit global de 2.7 %                      efois, la composition des
depenses n'a pas et6 conforme a nos object                              mentd'arriCrCs non
programmes, un deficit de tresorerie de la BCC plus             e prtvu. Par ailleurs, ily a
eu une accumulation des arridr6s sur les                          charges communes (eau,
electricite, etc) et ila falludiffererl'augm

15.     L e cadre macrodconomiquePO                                      macroeconomiques
du Gouvemement pour les deux proc                                        aux de croissance
Cconomique de 6 %en 2004 et 7 %en                                          le taux d'inflation
devrait dtre contenu b 6% en 2004
augmentationdu deficit exterieur courant, qui ser
augmentation de I'aide extkrieure.
rebchelonnement, pourrait atteindre4,l

16.     La politique budgetaire en 2004 vise a               er les efforts de stabilisation
macrotkonomique, tout enprenantpleinement                    es effets de la rdunification du
pays et entirant les bknefices de lapaix pour r             ddpense publique en faveur de
la rkduction de la pauvretk. Les recettes devraient atteindre 9 % du PIB et les depenses




1       Dansleplus longteme, nousespkronsmaintenir untaux d croissanceavoisinant7 pourcent
jusqu'en2010.


                                                                                             4

17.6% du PIB grhce principalement                it la reprise des investissements finances sur
ressources exterieures2

17.      Avec le retour de la paix, nous esperons pouvoir augmenter considerablement les
depenses d'investissement et de lutte contre la pauvrete, grice aux appuis financiers
extdrieurs de sources diverses (BM, AfDB, UE, etc), ainsi que celles degagees par

atteindront [XI
1'Initiative PPTE Renf~rcee.~Nous espdrons que les depenses relatives a la pauvrete
                    % du PIB, dont [yl] % finances sur le budget national, [yz] sur
financement exterieur et 1,7% du PIB sur l'kpargne budgetaire imputke 51 ]'Initiative
PPTE Renforcee. En mCme temps, nous entendons contenir les depenses militaires, de
securite et des institutions au strict minimum, soit respectivement a 2% et a 1,l % du
PIB. Par ailleurs, le projet dubudget 2004 inclut notamment les depenses suivantes :

         Revalorisation des traitements de l'ensemble des agents civils et militaires de 10
         %enjanvier 2004 ;
    0    Reduction de 10.000 des effectifs actifs par la mise en aeuvre du plande depart a
         la retraite des agents ayant rempli les conditions requises au 31decembre 2004;
         La prise en charge, suite iila mission gouvemementale d'etat des lieux dans les
         provinces rkunifides, de 135.000 agents civils (y compris les retraitables) des
         provinces reunifiees et de 15.000agents de la police nationale ;l a prise en charge
         du coi3 relatif a la fusion des armdes, qui a commence en octobre 2003 et qui
         continuera jusqu'au debut de la mise en place effective de notre programme
         national DDRqui sera en principe finance par la communautC intemationale ;
         Le paiement a temps des charges communes desormais sur la base des
         consommations facturees ou, en l'absence de facturation et en attendant la mise
         en place de compteurs, sur la base d'estimations forfaitaires. A ce propos, unplan
         d'action pour la maitrise des dtpenses communes a Cte mis en place en decembre
         2003 et sera misen ceuvre en 2004.

18.      Pour toutes ces raisons, n o w demandons un appui budgetaire a la Banque
mondiale pour assurer le financement de ces depenses et des autres besoins contraignants
inherents a la reunification du pays de fagon a soutenir et consolider ce processus au
courant de l'exercice budgetaire 2004.

STRATEGIE DEREDUCTION LA PAUVRETE      DE

19.      Objectif. Le but recherche d'ici aoat 2005 est la formulation et l'adoption d'un
DSRP complet prepare de manibe participative. I1 y a lieu de rappeler qu'un DSRP
Interimaire a et6 prepare et adopt6 en mi-2002. La strategie proposee dans ce document
est biitie sur trois piliers que sont : (i)    la restauration de la paix et la bonne gouvemance


1        D mce cas, le solde primaireinttrieur sur basecase dtgageraunsurplusde 2.1 pour cent du
PlB, et les operationsconsolideesdu Gouvemement, y compris le solde net des operations de la BCC (0.6
pour cent du PlB) devrait accuser un deficit global consolid6(base caisse, aprks rkechelonnement de la
dette) de 3 pour cent du PIB.
3        Le suivi des depensespro-pauvres sera facilitt grfice tl la nouvellenomenclature des d6penses qui
contient une codificationparticulikre,conque cet effet.

(ii)lastabilisationducadremacrodconomiqueetlarelancedelacroissancepro-pauvre;
(iii)lerenforcementdeladynamiquecommunautaireetdelacapacitddescommunautds
dans laplanification,      I'elaboration et lamise en ceuvre des activites de developpement.

1,       Rialisations depuisjuin 2002

20.      Trois types d'activites ont Cte entreprises depuis octobre 2002. Premierement,
dans le cadre de la mise en place d'une base de donnees statistiques, le Secretariat
Permanent du Comite Interministeriel, responsable de la Strategic de Lutte contre la
Pauvrete, a entrepris l'organisation de 1'EnquCteNationale sur le seuil de lapauvretd dont
le test pilote est intervenu en novembre et ddcembre 2002. Deuxikmement, un Plan
d'Action accompagne de son chronogramme a ete elabore et ensuite adopt6 en mi-juin
2003 par le Gouvemement, aprks discussions avec toutes les parties prenantes nationales
et internationales pour la formulation du DSRP complet. Ce demier sera adopt6 par le
Gouvemement au courant dutroisikme trimestre 2005.

21.      Le Pland'Action decrit les arrangementsinstitutionnels et les diffirents travaux
a effectuer ainsi que le calendrier correspondant afin d'achever le DSRP d'ici aodt 2005.
I1s'agit notamment :
         a) du renforcement des compktences des divers organismes4 et de la definition
             des rdles des differentes parties prenantes au processus de formulation du
             DSRP;
         b) de la preparation et du dtroulement des consultations participatives et leur
             restitution aux parties prenantes A tous les niveaux (national, provincial, local
             et communautaire) ;
         c) de la contribution des groupes thimatiques et des ministtres techniques;
         d) de lapreparationet de l'exdcution de l'enqdte sur le seuil de lapauvrete;
         e) de la preparation du document DSRP sur la base de l'ensemble des
             contributions mentionneesci-dessus ;et enfin
         f ) de l'appropriation par l'ensemble des participants du processus d'elaboration
             duDSRPfinal.

2.       Qctionsa rialiser d'icifin 2005

22.      En dkcembre 2003, un atelier de lancement du processus de formulation du
DSRP a ete organise. Pour le moment, il se deroule une campagne d'information,
d'education et de communication concemant (i)le processus de formulation du DSRP
complet, (ii)l'organisation des consultations participatives aux niveaux national,
provincial, local et communautaire ;et (iii)          la finalisation de l'organisation de l'enquete
sur la pauvreti, notamment son lancement en janvier 2004 en vue de son achkement
un an plustard.
                                 -
4        Comite Interministeriel, Secrdmiat Permanent, Comitt Technique, Groupes Thematiques
Multidisciplinaires, Points Focaux, et ComitesProvinciaux et Locaux pour la Rdduction de la Pauvretk;
5        La societe civile, les ONGs, les ministbres impliquks, le secteur privt, le Parlement, les
associations communautaires, les associationsdejeunes, les vulnerableset les confessionsreligieuses), lei
administrationslocales ;


                                                                                                         6

23.     Les consultations participatives se derouleront de janvier 21 mai 2004. La
redaction et la restitution auprbs des ministkres techniques et comunautCs des rapports
sur les consultations sectorielles et communautaires auront lieu en juin -juillet 2004. Ces
rapports seront ensuite utilists par les groupes thematiques et les ministeres techniques
pour l'elaboration de leurs contributions au DSRP. L'enquCte sur le seuil de la pauvrete
est organiske de manibre participative et sera complktte en milieuurbain et rural par des
fiches statistiques sur les budgets-consommations des menages, I'emploi et le secteur
informel (EnquCte 1-2-3). L'exdcution de l'enqdte fera I'objet d'un partenariat entre le
CTSRP et 1'InstitutNational de la Statistiqueafinque cette structure puissejouer sonrhle
central dans la collecte, l'andyse et la dissemination des donnkes sur la pauvretd. L e
concours d'AFRISTAT et du Secretariat national pour le renforcement des capacitks
(SENAREC) est attendudans cet exercice.

24.     Sur la base des rapports des consultations et des travaux techniques, les groupes
thematiques et les ministbres sectoriels klaboreront leurs contributions au DSRP qui
devraient Ctre prCtes fin septembre 2004. Apres l'achevement de 1'enquCte 1-2-3 sur le
seuil de la pauvrete en d6eembre 2004, le rapport sera finalise a fin fbvrier 2005. I1fera
ensuite I'objet d'une restitution au courant de la premiere semaine du mois de mai 2005
aupres des ministeressectoriels, des provinces, des communautes et d'autres partenaires.
La prochaine etape consisterait en l'elaboration d'une premiere version provisoire du
DSRP, qui devrait Ctre disponible en Avril 2005.            Sa restitution aux partenaires
nationaux et intemationaux aurait lieu en Juin 2005. Ceci permettrait de finaliser et de
restituer la version definitive en juillet et aoQt2005, avant son depht au niveau du
Gouvemement fin aoQt2005. Son adoption devrait intervenir deux mois plus tard, soit
                 it
avant fin octobre 2005.

POL `IQUES STRUCTURELLESETSECTORIELLES

I PaixetGouvernance

25.     Le DSRP-Ia beaucoup insist6 sur le maintien de la paix et l'amelioration de la
gouvemance comme des conditions essentielles d'un retour a la croissance Cconomique
et de reduction de la pauvretk. Nous focalisons nos efforts dans les deux ans a venir sur :
(i)lapaix a travers surtout la mise en route duprogramme de demobilisation et de
reinsertion des ex-combattants ;(ii)    la bonne gouvemance ;(iii)   I'approfondissement de
la lutte contre la corruption ;(iv) l'amelioration de la gestion des finances publiques ;(v)
les reformes dans les domaines de la fonction publique, de la territoriale (avec comme
axe prioritaire la decentralisation) et dans le domainejudiciaire.

Promotion de la Paix

26.      Objectif: L'objectif general est de consolider la paix `atravers le desmement, la
demobilisation et la rdinsertion des ex-combattants. Danscette optique, le Gouvemement
a mis sur pieds un Programme national de desarmement, demobilkation et reinsertion
(PNDDR) pour les groupes arm& congolais signataires de l'accord de Lusaka,
notamment les FAC, MLC, RCD-Goma, RCD-ML, et les Mayi-Mayi. Ce programme
comprend trois composantes : (i)demobilisation et rdinsertion des combattants des

groupes susmentionnks, estimes a 90.000-150.000; (ii)assistance a la reinsertion socio-
economique des ex-combattants; (iii)   assistance particulibre abx groupes vulntrables. Le
PNDDR serait finance principalement par un credit IDA et LUI don du Programme Multi-
Pays de Demobilisation et Reinsertion(PMDR). Les ciontributionsdubudgetnational, de
la Mission d'observation des Nations Unies au Cdngo (MONUC) et des bilateraux
restent B dkfinir.

I,      Rialisations

27.     Le Gouvemement a d6fini la structure                     e necessaire au DDR en
consultationavec les bailleurs. I1s'agit de laCom                nalede DDR, responsable
de la definition des orientations stratcgiqueset le              xCcutif, charge de la mise
en axvre de ces orientations. Jusqu'a la                                  le Gouvernement
developpe le PNDDR dans le cadre du co                                    on et coordination
(CTPC) cr& en octobre 2003 pour assurer la coo                    activitks DDR d'urgence.
Le PNDDR doit faire l'objet des consultations e                   priation nationale. I1 sera
valid6 de fagonformelle par laCommissionnatio

2.     Actions a rkaliser d'icifin 2005

28.     L e Gouvemement devrait, d'ici mars 2004,               finaliser l'elaboration du
programme pour la restructuration de l'armde, afin d           ouvoir definir le PNDDR,
notamment en ce qui concerne les crit6res de demobil           on; (ii)  mettre en place la
structure institutionnelle necessaire au pilotage stmtdgiq* et & la mise en oeuvre du
PNDDR a travers, respectivement, le Comite Nati                 e DDR (CNDDR) et le
Secrbtariat extcutif ; (iii)nommer le Directeur gher            Secretariat exdcutif et (iv)
finaliser le PNDDR aprks consultations et appropriatio           ale. Ces activites sont des
prealablesndcessairespour laphase de d&"ment          et

29.     Si les activites ci-dessus sont realiskes et que ies conditions securitaires le
permettent, la phase de ddsarmement et dtmobilisation put commencer en avril 2004
(duree 7 mois). La phase de reinsertion pourrait alors debuter ennovembre 2004 (duree 1
a).

Gouvernance

Objectifsglobaux.

30.    D'ici a septembre 2005, l'objectif poursui            ouvernementest d'amhliorer
la gestion des affaires publiques ii1'8chelo                      avers la promotion de la
bonne gouvernance, la lutte contre la conuptio                    des institutions. I1s'agira
d'abord :(a) de consolider les acquis et d'ap                     rmes au niveau de la lutte
contre la corruption et l'amelioration de la gesti           ances publiques;(b) d'initier
les reformes auniveaude lafonction publique, la              sationet le secteurjudiciaire.




                                                                                            8

A        Luttecontre la corruption

31. Aprbs la promulgation du DCcret-Loi portant Code de Bonne Conduite de 1'Agent
Public de 1'Etat en novembre 2002, une campagne de vulgari$ation a ete lancee en mars
2003 A Mbuji-Mayi. Un recueil sur le vade-mecum du citpyen (recueil des droits et
obligations du citoyen) a et6 6laborC et est en instance d`approbation au niveau du
Gouvemement. Unprojet de loi anti-corruption a &e elaborelet confit au Minist6re de la
Justice pour harmonisation avec les textes existants. I1sera ddposi au Parlement avant la
fin du mois de janvier 2004. Unprojet de loi portant lutte contre le blanchiment des
capitaux et le financement du terrorisme a et6 prepare avec le concows de la Banque
Centrale du Congo et examine ii I'ECOFIN en octobre 2003. Le Gouvemement le
deposeraau Parlement avant finjanvier 2004. Ce projet tient compte des observations du
FMIet de la BanqueMondiale.


B,      Gestiondesdipenses publiques

30.     Objectif.    Le Gouvemement a pour objectif le renforcement de la gestion
budgetaire et financibre, la transparencedu processus budgptaire et l'amklioration de la
capacite de suivi de l'execution des dtpenses publiques.6 Cela passe par la reforme du
processus de preparation et d'execution du budget de l'hat y compris (i)               l'adoption
d'une nouvelle nomenclature budgetaire, (ii) restauration de la chaine d'execution des
                                                la
depenses (y compris sa rationalisation et son informatisation), (iii)      le retablissement des
fonctions de suivi et de contrble sur la chaine de ladepense, c'est-a-dire l'elaboration des
etats de suivi budgetaires a m difftrents stades de la chahe, (iv) la mise en place d'un
systeme d'echange, par voie Clectronique, des informations sur l'execution du budget de
l'Etat entre la BanqueCentrale et le TrCsor, (v) la mise en place d'un plancomptable de
1'Etat en partie double, (vi) une rtforme globale du systemc de passation des marches et
(vii) unaudit complet des proceduresde gestion des dCpenses de personnel de 1'Etat et la
reorganisation ducircuit de lapaie.

1.      Rialisations

31.     La nomenclature des dhpenses de I'Etat a et4 rCvisCe par le Ministhre des
Finances et Budget en juillet 2002. Elle presente desortnais les depenses sous trois
classifications : depenses par nature, par administration et par grandes fonctions de 1'Etat.
Le Budget rectificatifpour 2003 a et6 present6au Parlementsur la base de cette nouvelle
nomenclature, et le budget 2004 le sera aussi. Elle servira de rtference a toutes les
codifications des depensesau sein de la chaine des ddpenses, et A l'elaboration de tous les
rapports d'execution dubudget.

32.     A ce propos, m e nouvelle reglementation globale du traitement des depenses
publiques ayant pour base une rationalisation et une simplification des procedures a et6
validee par le Ministre des Finances et Budget en juin 2003; cette rkglementation est


        Dansce contextegdndral,uneimportanceparticulikreest placde sur la gestiondes dkpenses likesil
  rkli  ionde lapauvretd.


                                                                                                   9

contenue dans le Manuel du Circuit de la DBpense, qui e6t devenu la reference des
procedures des depenses publiques. I1 a fait objet d'une campagne officielle de
vulgarisation aupres des cadresde 1'administration.

33.     L a mise en place oficielle de la liaisoninformatiqueTrCsor-BanqueCentrale
a eu lieu en aoOt 2003. Une fois pleinement optrationnelle en debut 2004, la liaison
informatique permettra, entre autres, la transmission directe des ordres de paiement, des
avis de debit correspondants, des avis de credit et des releves des comptes du Tresor.
La nouvelle chaine de la depense a et6 lancq offiuiellement                 en aofit 2003.
Techniquement, cette chaine est operationnelle, de telle sgrte qu'il est deja possible
d'exdcuter toutes les operations, depuis la constitutiw du budget jusqu'a la
comptabilisation des operations au Trksor. Cependant, de$ contraintes extemes a la
chaine de depenses subsistent, dont les plus sCrieuses sont les retards dans
l'interconnexion des sites infonnatiques des differents intepenants de la chaine et la
ntcessite des travaux complementaires pour assurer la securite d'exploitation du systkme.
Une fois ces probkmes resolus, ilsera possible de produire les Ctats de suivi budgetaires
sur une baseregulibre.

34.     Enoutre, la budgetisation des depenses de lutte contre la pauvrete sur ressources
PPTE a et6 preparee selon la nouvelle nomenclature. Par dlleurs, ces depenses ont Cte
saisies informatiquement, classifiees par nature et par classification administrative (ou
services) et par grande fonction de 1'Etat. Au niveau des dipenses PPTE, un sous compte
spkcifique a Cte ouvert a la BCC, ou sont ddposees les ressqurceslibtrees par l'initiative
PPTE. Un syst6me de codification des depenses dp lutte lcontre la pauvrete, soit sur
ressources PPTE, soit sur ressources non PPTE,i a et6 introduit dans le systeme
informatique ii travers un marquage particulier, c'kst-a-dire avec des codes selon la
specificitt et/ou la localisation geographique de la depenqe. En septembre 2003, un
comitC de suivi a &e mis en place par le Ministere du budget; ilest compose des
representants des ministkres et institutions du Gouvernement, de la societe civile ainsi
que des representants des bailleurs de fonds. L e comite a pour mission de garantir la
bonne affectation des ressources, l'dquitC dans 1'affeFation et faire le suivi de l'execution
de ces depenses.

35.     Les travaux relatifs 21 la rkfonne du systbme de la passation des marchCs
publics ont &e lances avec le concours de la Banque mondiale qui a organis6 des
missions enjuillet et novembre 2003 ayant pour but d'entreprendre et d'achever unaudit
complet du systkme de passation des marches publics avant fin avril 2004. Cet audit
couvrira tous les aspectsjuridiques et institutionnels de cette activitC centrale a la bonne
gestion des depensespubliques.

2.      Les activitkspour 2004-2005

36.     Durant les annees 2004 et 2005, les object&               x seront de consolider la
rationalisation et l'automatisation de la chaine de la           .  Le syst&me de suivi des
depenses publiques sera perfectionne et, en ce qui              les ddpenses de lutte contre
la pauvrete, un accent particulier sera mis sur                 ndissement du suivi et de
I'tvaluation participatifs a travers le comitC consg)            suivi de depenses de lutte


                                                                                           10

contre la pauvret6. Le Gouvernement envisage de commencef l'extension progressive de
tous les elements qui constituent la chaine de la depense sur le reste du pays, notamment,
les procedures rationalisdes, la nouvelle nomenclature et ses trois classifications, les
textes organisationnels, le support informatique, le plande fomation, etc.


liees a la mise en place de la chaine des depenses en gineral et pour les depenses de lutte
37.      Les prioritksjusqu'h fin mars 2004 sont focalisees sw la poursuite des reformes

contre la pauvrete. en particulier, notamment celles qui soht financdes par l'dpargne
budgitaire ddcoulant de 1'Initiative PPTE. I1 y a lieu da relever en particulier, la
production effective de toute une s6rie d'dtats mensuels de suivi de l'extcution
budgetaire, dont le rapport global d'execution budgetaire selon les 4 phases de la
depense, le rapport de suivi d'execution par classification administrative, le rapport
d'exkcution par nature et repartition gkographique, le rappoq par grandes fonctions de
1'Etat et le rapport relatif aux dCpenses de lutte contre la pauvirete. Le comite consultatif
de suivi de depenses de lutte contre la pauvrete sera renduplehement operationnel.

38.     Les travaux de la mise en place d'un systeme comptable de 1'Etat a partie
double commenceront des le debut 2004 avec l'appui technique de la France. L'objectif
est de rendre ce systbme operationnel au debut de 2005. I 1s'agit d'un repere h rkaliser
pour le pointd'achevement dans le contexte de I'InitiativePPTE renforcke.

39.     En ce qui concerne la passation des marches publics, l'objectif sera de
commencer les rdformes effectives sur la basede l'audit entreprise avec le concours de la
Banque mondiale. Notre objectif est d'dlaborer et de mettrd en exdcution un nouveau
code des marches publics. Les principaux decrets d'application seront pris d'ici 2006, car
ils'agit d'un reperepourlepointd'achevement dans le cadre de 1'InitiativePPTE
Renforche.

40.     Au niveau des dtpenses de personnel, un audit du circuit de la paie sera
entrepris avec le concours de la Cooperation Franqaise, entre ]anvier et fin avril2004, en
vue de sa reorganisation et de la mise en Oeuvre d'un nobveau systkme sdcurise et
verrouille  a compter du le` 2005 (du moins dans sa version provisoire). A
                              janvier                                                    ce
propos, ilsera organis6 un recensement complet des agents de 1'Etat dont les resultats
serviront de basepour confectionner unfichier central securis&dupersonnel de 1'Etat a la
fin de 2004 et pour etablir unnouveau systkmede lapaie.

C.      RBforme de la Fonction publique


Objectif. Le Gouvemement est conscient qu'une reforme copplbte de 1'Administration
Publique s'impose afin d'ameliorer sa qualit6 et la capacitd des ministeres et services
publics fi fournir des services de base de qualitC(santC, edu$ation, etc). La strategic du
Gouvernement repose sur (i) redefinition des missions dks ministeres prioritaires et
                                une
des structures publiques de prestations des services et (ii)  l'aqgmentation de la qualit6 et
de laproductivite du personnel. Dans l'optique de la mise enplace d'un appareil etatique
rCnovC et performant, les actions prioritaires fi entreprendre gendant les deux prochaines
annees viseront ce qui suit :

    (i) Entreprendre undiagno                        nisteres principaux (missions,
            modes de fonctionnement,
    (ii) Effectuerun                                    s services, surtout au niveau


                                                              les conditions d'iige et

            Mondiale.

L'audit du systeme de prestations des services publ         a de jeter les bases d'une
reforme devant conduire A la mise en place d'un in          suivi budgetaire dans les
secteurs de l'kducation, la sante et le Cf&                    sur (i)l'execution des
depenses de lutte contre lapauvrete, (ii)  I                  ciaires de la qualite des
services publics et (iii)
                        l'dvaluation par ics 6bun         traintes et des handicaps a
la prestation des services.

1.      Rialisations

41.     Une commission interministdrielle et un        technique de pilotage de la
reforme ont CtC etablis avec pour mission pr         iri er et orienter la rdforme et
d'accompagner la preparation et la mise e              cwns. L a Belgique soutient
                                                        9
activement le processus de reforme de la foncti        e 4 travers le ddblocage d'un
fonds d'appui a la reforme. Ce fonds permettra         es Ctudes et des actions pour
accompagner ce processus.

2.      L e programmepour 2004-2005

42.     L e diagnostic institutionnel. L a premiere       era sur le Ministbre de la
Fonction Publique qui devra se                             l'ensemble de la reforme.
L'etude inclut la revision des missions, du cadreI         du statut de ce ministtire.
Des etudes similaires seront realisdes pour les k
Plan au cours de cette premiere phase. Deux idia'srs
similaires pour le reste de l'administratio
ministeres vers la bonne gouvemance et ~rriic.lto
qualite ont egalement et6 prevues. Le calen

43.     Audit du systkme de prestations                    le cadre de la reforme de
l'Etat, le Gouvemement, en
dans le courant de 2004, les
trois secteurs cles ;en l'occurrence, l'dducati
sCrie d'enquetes seront conduites auprbs des P
ou privb, atin d'analyser leurs modes de
financement et les contraintes auxquelles ils          en matihre de provision des
services. Ces enquCtes apporter                      nt de vue des usagers sur
l'accessibilite et la qualit6 des services, ainsi     informations sur le mode de
fonctionnement des structures



                                                                                     12

13

(dont 24.500 pour 1'Education) mais des estimatio& plus recentes parlent d'environ
74.000, et ceci n'inclut pas l'ensemble des territoites rCu ifiCs. Depuis le dCbut de
                                                               a
2003, la Banque Mondiale a assist6 le Ministtre de la F nction Publique, dans la
definition d'une strategie de mise 9 la retraite techniquememt viable et financikrement
supportable et dans l'ktablissement d'une base de donnkes. Undocument de strategie et
de methodologie de mise a la retraite a et6 tlabor6 etj sur cede base le Gouvernement a
                                                               r
demande le concours de la Banque mondiale pour f i h c e r k s dkparts A la retraite des
personnes ayant rempliles conditions requisespour un$retrai d'office auplus tard le 31
dCcembre2004 et ayant Cte identifides comme dligibleg lors d recensement.

49.     Les departs auront lieu en deux lots. Le premia lot qui interviendra pendant le
deuxibme semestre 2004 concernera ceux qui sont deja partis h la retraite de facto sans
toucher les allocations de fin de carrikre. L e deuxibme lot interviendra le plus t6t
possible en 2005, et concernera les personnes ayant et6 identifiees lors du recensement
comme eligibles A la retraite au plustard le 31 dkcembrte2004.

DCcentralisation

50.     Object&     La conjoncture politique immediate de la RDC est dominde par la
question de la reunification nationale. Dans cette pers ctive, toutes les parties semblent
s'entendre sur unpostulat de base :le Congo sera un     p.,J
                                                           t uni ire fortement decentralise.
C'est ainsi que le Gouvernement de transition Se propose de revoir le mode
d'organisation et d'administration du territoire natioDal, afin (a) de contribuer ti la
stabilite et a la paix, (b) d'encourager la participation la gestion des affaires publiques
                                                                t
de la part des populations et des acteurs sociaux ,et economiques, (c) de faciliter
1'Cpanouissement et le developpement culturel, social et conomique de toutes les
populations, dans toutes les regions du pays, (d) de fdvorise l'accroissement, qualitatif
aussi bien que quantitatif, de la disponibilitd et de l'bccessi ilite des services d'utilite
publique (santk, education, sCcuritC.. .), et (e) de proniouvoir la bonne gouvemance des
affaires publiques et privees.

51.     L a reforme du mode d'organisation et d'administration du territoire sera conduite
dans la perspective (a) d'instaurer la democratisation dps affaires publiques, (b) d'assurer
une plus grande proximite entre les ddcideurs et leurs bmmebtants, les prestataires et les
bentficiaires de services, (c) d'introduire le principe I&   la mise en responsabilitd des
gestionnaires, qu'ils soient dlus ou design&, et (d) de garantir la transparence dam la
gestion des affaires publiques et privdes. Ces principeb ddfinissent les grands axes de la
stratCgie du Gouvernement au sujet de laddcentralisatiQn.

        Rialisations

52.     Une Cquipe de travail a elabord unplanet unprogramme de travail susceptible de
conduire ti l'adoption d'une nouvelle loi portant org
present6A la fin dejuin 2003 au MinistGre des             ation du territoire.deCette Cquipe a
                                                                                1'Inteieur un
document de travail comportant, unprogramme                                           menant,
par etapes successives,    a la mise en Oeuvre en



                                                                                            4

administrative du territoire congolais. AprBs la formatiqn du Gouvernement d'union
nationale, le Ministire de I'Inte'rieur, de la Ddcentralisatibn et de la Se`curite`a cr& un
nouveau groupe de travail, comprenant des representqts de toutes les tendances
politiques et de toutes les regions du pays, et ayant pour mandat de rediger,
conformement a l'esprit et a la lettre de 1'Accord de Prdkoria, un projet de loi portant
organisation du territoire. Des discussions sont erl cours sur ledit projet au sein de la
Commission gouvernementale charge`e des aflaires politiques, de de`fense et de sicuritd
avant d'Ctre soumis au Conseil des ministres. Unefiis approuve, ce projet seratransmis a
1'AssemblCe Nationale pour adoption.

2,      Prochaines actions

53.      L'adoption de ce projet de loi jettera les ba$es de la reforme du mode
d'organisation de l'administration du territoire. Eq effet, ice projet de loi a et6 congu a
l'origine c o m e une rdorganisation temporaire duterritoiq. L'ann6e 2004 sera consacrke
st la poursuite des actions en vue d'en arriver a un mode et un systkme d'organisation et
de gestion des affaires publiques qui rdpondent, a long terme, aux besoins et aux dCsirs
des populations congolaises.

54.      Le Gouvernement se propose entre autres cboses pour l'annee 2004 (a) de dresser
un &at des liew aux plans administratif et financier des principales entites
administratives subalternes, (b) de prkparer des monographies tconomiques et financieres
des principales subdivisions tenitoriales, (c) d'initier des analyses ddtailltes et critiques
de l'assiette fiscale des entitds administratives decentralides, (d) de preparer un guide de
gestion locale, (e) d'dlaborer unprogramme de formation pour les cadres et les agents des
entites administratives decentralisees, et (f) de proaeder a des consultations populaires sur
les attributions et les prirogatives des gouvemements locapx.

55.      Le Gouvemement entend poursuivre sa reforme du mode d'organisation du
territoire en faisant preuve de transparence, de realisme, qe pragmatisme, de flexibilite et
de progressiviti. La transparence de notre demarche st assuree par le fait que les
populations seront consultees au moment des enquCt          ,"sparticipatives inhkrentes au
processus du DSRP, et par le biais des enquetes sur led mecanismes de prestation des
services au niveau local dans les trois secteurs-cles que hont la sante, l'education et la
justice. Le re'alisme nous contraint de tenir compte de lalfragilite et de la faiblesse de la
repartition spatiale de l'assiette fiscale. Le pragmatismq nous conduira a consulter les
acteurs ayant conduit ou VCCU des expdriences similairfs ailleurs en plus A pendre la
pleine mesure des expbriences que le pays a connues par le passe en matitre de la
decentralisation. Par souci deflexibilite`, nous veillerons k reorganiser  chaque secteur en
fonction de sa problematique propre, en favorisant la cent$alisation, la deconcentration, la
decentralisation, la devolution ou la privatisation selon les situations et suivant les
circonstances. Finalement, le Gouvernement entend adopler une demarcheprogressive en
                                                            il
conduisant des expdriences-pilotes dans les secteurs et `les regions qui s'y prtteront le
mieux.
E.       Systhe judiciaire




                                                                                            5

56.     Au niveau du systhme judiciaire, une                          du systeme judiciaire
congolais a demarre en octobre 2003 avec                                        et le rapport
attendu avant fin decembre 2003
trimestre 2004. Cet audit effectue
lieux du systkmejudiciaire. Sur
etabli et le demarrage de sa
actions sont prdvues afin d'amdliorer l'environnem$nt legal etjudiciaire des entreprises.
11.                 SECTEURFINANCIER

57.     Objectifs. Une partiecentrale duprogr                       economique conceme la
rehabilitation et le developpement du                                 le souci de relancer
l'intermediation financiere. I1 y a trois                                du cadre legal et
reglementaire rdgissant le secteur                                      Banque Centrale et
l'amelioration de sa gestion; et (c) la restructuratiod des banques commerciales.

1.      RPalisations

58.     Le cadrejuridique et rtglementaire du sect                a ete complktement revise
en 2002,  a travers l'adoption de nouvelles lois                       Centrale, les activitts
bancaireset les activitds des cooperatives                              Banque Centrale est
en train de se faire rdhabiliter avec                                   du Fonds MonCtaire
International. Au niveau des                                               en mars 2003 de
proceder a la liquidation                                                            (BCCE,
NBK,et BCA).
Par ailleurs,   une skrie
l'assistance financiere de
2003.    I1 s'agit (a) de
Banque Commerciale
Banque Intemationale
des cinq banques
Banque de




avant fin novembre2003.                                  i n

2.      Les actionspour 2004-2005

59.     Pendant 2004, pour les banques                         a travers les audits, il sera
procede, avant fin mars a l'ttablissement                         avec la BCC sur les plans
de restructuration, tels que findiscs avant                           avec un calendrier de
mise en application ainsi que des                                        Par ailleurs, nous
procederons au retrait des agrdments                                     a la suite des audits
precitds. En ce qui conceme la                                                 independants,


                                                                                             6

finances avec le concows de la Banque mondiale,                        avant fin mars 2004,
sous reserve de l'achevement du processus de rec                             dans le souci de
commencer les operations de liquidation                                       ailleurs, nous
esperons vivement que le programme de
effectivement acheve, gr6ce au
et developpement du secteur privi).
                                                      re
60.     Les autres objectifspour 2004. L a supervision bancaire sera renforcee a travers
lamiseen place effective d'un systkme rdgulier de bontrblesur pieces L'amClioration du
cadre prudentiel se poursuivra, par le renforcem t des roctdures d'agrement et des
critbres d'kligibilite pour les actionnaires. A cet e et,     1 BCC Cmettra les instructions
appropriees. Un nouveau plan comptable bancai             sera repar6 en vue de sa mise en
vigueur a compter du 1"` janvier 2005.                   ilseraprocCdCalapreparationd'un
cadre legalapproprie regissantles                                  nonmutuelles.

111.    Dkeloppement du secteur priv6

61.     Object&      L'objectif est de mettre                    environnement des affaires
susceptibles de promouvoir la croissance                                 crdant de nouveaux
emplois. Cela passe par (i)                                                    tant pour les
investisseurs nationaux
entreprises, fiscalit6 et
rtglement de la dette
necessaire de
regulationeconomique et labonne concurrence.               li 11

I,Rkalisationsdepuis2001

62.     Au niveau du                                                    a et6 entamde avec
l'approbation de nouveaux codes des                                    en 2002. Unnouveau
code minier a et6 publie en 2002, et                                           en 2003. Un
nouveau code forestier a kttc
actuellement en elaboration.
dispositifjuridique pour les
des societes, des affaires, des assurances, etc).    rii
63.     Au niveau judiciaire, des Tribunaux de $omme ce ont CtC Crees en 2002, et le
personnel-cle design6 en 2003.          Les infias ctures physiques sont en voie de
rkhabilitation.    Par ailleurs, pour faciliter la reso ution es differends commerciaux, un
centre national d'arbitrage a Ctt Cree par Arrete iniste 1du 18 juin 2003, son bureau
                                                              *
etabli et environ 30 arbitres enregistrb.

64.     La crCation de 1'ANAPI en 2002 a eu pour effet 1 promotion des investissements
et la facilitation des operations administrativeslelativ        aux investissements. I1 en est
de mCme de celles relatives au commerce extkrieur q i beneficient des services du
Guichet Unique Douanier au Port de Matadi, devdnu opkrationnel depuis juillet 2003.



                                                                                            7

65.     Dans le domaine           de la rCgulatio                      de    RCgulation     des
TClecommunications a &e crdde. Les travaux sur                         la politique sectorielle
se poursuivent et accordent une attention                                de la tarification des
interconnections. Le cadastre mirier a et6                                      des transports
est en cours de creation.

66.     Au niveau de la fiscalit&       des revues d systeme fiscal et douanier ont ete
entreprises avec l'assistance du FMI et de la B que Mondiale.
publication en 2002-2003 d'un nouveau tarif dou ier dont l'objet estI1de rationaliser la
structure de la protection douaniere du march6 interirrur. De meme, d'importantes
reformes ont et6 entreprises au niveaude la fiscalit indirecte dont l'objectif principal est
d'introduire la deductibilite au niveau de l'imp t sur le chiffre d'affaires et par la
                                                    kb                        en a resulte la




                                                    9`
d'ameliorer la compktitivitt des industries local& vis-&vis du march6 international.
L'ICA sur les exportations a 6ttC supprimke.          ar aillturs,    en novembre 2003, le
Gouvernement a provisoirement sursis B           l'a plicatian d'un certain nombre de
prklevements parafiscaux, en attendant la prkpara ion d'un plan d'action global pour la
reforme de la parafiscalite appliquee a m entrepriseb, qui ra pr6parC avec le concours de
la Banque Mondiale en 2004.

67.     Dette intbrieure. Un audit des arridrks                  de 1'Etat envers le secteur
privC a 6te acheve en septembre pour les                          le 1 ''juillet 1997 et le 31
decembre 2001. Le montant total de la                             auditeur independant a et6
arrete a US$ 207 millions. Un travail                                    gtn6rtes avant le 30
juin 1997 devrait &re termini5 avant fin                                     interministkrielle
sur la Dette Interieure a et6 crCCe et                                          de ces audits,
afin de conclure un accord avec les
paiement.                                            I  11a
        Les objectvspour 2004 et 2005

68.     Dans le domaine juridique, les                        au niveau de la rtforme et la
modernisation du cadre juridique se                           'une reflexion approfondie sur
la miseen place d'un acte uniquedu                            d'une adhksion prochaine.

69.        Dans le domaine                                    de formation des juges, des
assesseurs et des auxiliaires                                  unfmancement de laBanque
mondiale.    Les travaux                                          les tribunaux du commerce
et renforcer le centre d' arbitrage se poursuivront.

70.     Dans le domaine de la fiscalitk,                         d'ici fin juin 2004, sur la
preparation d'un plan d'action et son                                 pour la reforme de la
fiscalit6 directe et indirecte appliquie                                  de son application
progressive au courant du deuxi6me semestre 2004.'               Au niveau des procedures

7


l'achkvementdutravail et la miseeneuvre des


                                                                                              8

douanieres et du commerce extdrieur, l'objectif lest d'           un nouveau code des
douanes avant juin 2004. La restructuration de                       dans le cadre de la
reforme des entreprises publiques.

71.      Au niveau de la rbglementationdu                      est de fmaliser et adopter
les principaux dtcrets d'application du                             2004. Cependant, le
calendrier de realisation de cet objectif                                 des discussions
tripartites (Gouvemement, syndicats et                                   contenu desdits
decrets. Nous sommes trbs soucieux                                         ces decrets ne
puissent handicaper ni la
protection dkmesureedes

72.       Procedures et tracasseries                        ans ce domaine, une revue
exhaustive sera entreprise au cours                               avec le concours de la
Banque Mondiale (Foreign                                          dans le but de prtparer
et mettreen applicationunprogramme de reforme.

73.      Dette intkrieure. Les objectifs-cle pour 2         (i)d'acheverleprocessusde
certification et rdconciliation des creances des              privees sur l'Etat, (ii)  de
negocier avec                                                  (iii)
                                                                   proceder a la mise en
paiement. A ce propos, nous                                    de la Banque Mondiale A
travers le Credit de relance                                     soutient le Programme
                                                                     de la dette interieure


74.      DCpenses communes. A l'heure                      epuis de maintes annCes, le
paiement des depenses communes accusent                    tard-ce qui entraine pour les
fournisseurs des services correspondants                        en particulier) un deficit
substantiel au niveau du cash flow et un                            dans leur capacite de
foumir des services.     Nous voulons dans                           trouver une solution
definitive a ce problkme c o m e suit :                   I


         Preparation, avant fin ddcembre 2003, et                 dbs janvier 2004, d'un
         pland'action pour lamaltrise des                         niveau des ministbres et
         organismes du secteur public                              au titre des ddpenses
         communes sont prises en charge par l e Budbet ;  ,
         Paiement, A compter du 1"janvier 2004, dds depe      communes (notamment eau
         et electricite) par le biais                            forfaitaires liberatoires,
         calcules sur la base des consommations                  jusqu'a la mise en place
         de systbmes de compteurs et                                            rkelles en
         rCsultant
                 .

Nous avons aussi l'intention de nous assurer ,que le ressources degagees par ces
paiements supplementaires sont utilistes en priorit6 par es entreprises concemees pour
augmenter la disponibilite des services, tant tn q     i   tit6 que qualitt, auprts des



                                                                                         19

consommateurs individuels de bas revenu. Nous                                 s dans ce domaine un appui
technique et financier important de la Banque Mondiale.

IV.       RCforme des Entreprises du Portefeuille

75.       Conscient de la necessite d'un partendat public-prive pour la relance de
l'economie, le Gouvernement a blabore une                                       la reforme du secteur des
entreprises publiques. Les objectifs de cette                                   de : (a) s'assurer que les
services publics sont foumis de manibre                                            commerciale, en faisant
appel, en tant que de besoin, au                                                     sous diverses formes
(partenariat, concession,, cession                                                    et (b) rCduireles cofits
quasi-fiscaux resultant de la mauvaise gestion des entre rises publiques etlou de leur
reorganisation.,                                                             P
                                                                       IllId
76.       Ainsi, les travaux prdparatifs de la riformeiont deja permis au Gouvernement de

principaux lies a la gestion de ces entreprises.
produire un audit des entreprises publiques                                     d'identifier les probl6mes
                                                                               reflexion autour de l'idee de
reforme a et6 organis6 en septembre2001 sous                                  Presidence de la Republique.
Le ComitC de Pilotage de la Refonne des                                           (COPIREP) a Cte Cree par
decret prisidentiel no136/2002 du 30                                              ce Comiti est de preparer
                                                                          i
et mettre en place la reforme,                                                     de toutes les entreprises
publiques effectuk au moyen                                                                   Ce comitk est
effectivement opkationnel depuis juillet 2003.

77.       Un diagnostic comptable, fonctionnel et pperati nnel de certaines entreprises,
qui avait commence en novembre 2002, a kte refidu au Gouvernement au mois d'avril
2003, et sert maintenant de base de travail pour lt$sgro es sectoriels de travail animis
par le COPIREP. Les &pes                  suivre maintenan4sont 1 suivantes: (a) la mise en place
des groupes sectoriels de travail devant aider a dC@r 1'                     pect strategique de la reforme ;
(b) la definition d'un calendrier identifiant les letapes e la restructuration etlou du
disengagementde 1'Etat de certaines entreprises ;`et (c) 1 elaboration du cadre organique
donnant l'orientation de ce secteur A sownettre* auiParle                    nt.

78.       Des etudes ont permis d`dvaluer les                                       ainsi que les indemnites
necessaires au depart kventuel de                                                      dans le cadre d`une
restructuration actuellement                                                              de la liquidation de
la NBK, la BCCE et la                                                                               sera finance
par le Credit de

2.        Les actions a rialiser en 2004-2005

79.       Les objectifs principaux A realiser pendant l'rnn6e 2004 sont comme suit.
Premihrement, sur le plan institutionnel, il stagira
Technique du COPIREP, qui est l'organe de cdncepti , d'orientation et de suivi du
                                                                          F  e mettre en place le ComitC


* lncluant la loi-cadre sur les entreprises publiques, la loi surl le d6se
sectorielles.                                                             ?  agement de 1'Etat et les lois

                                                                          Ill


                                                                                                              20

processus de la reforme des entreprises publiquesi, charge d'approuver:(i) les dossiers
techniques elabores par le Secretariat ExCcutif du ICOPIREP avant leur presentation au
Gouvernement ;et (ii) propositions de reforme,prepar&espar les Groupes Sectoriels
                         les
de Travail. Deuxikmement, nous entendons rendrqpleinewent operationnels les groupes
sectoriels de travail et d'dtudes sur le processus d            rme des entreprises publiques
dans les secteursjug& prioritaires.

80.     Le troisihe objectif est de preparer dqns le courant de l'annde des plans
d'actions pour un certain nombre d'entreprises-cleb dont n o t m e n t pour la reforme de
certaines entreprises publiques, dont                             ines, RVA, SNCC, LAC,
Citytrain, OCPT et SNEL.' Nous                                      devant servir au paiement
d`indemnites en faveur des                                            de la restructuration de
l'OCPT, et des employes                                                  NBK,BCCE et BCA
aura ete complktee avant juin 2004.

81.     Quatriemement, il s'agira de prdparer et faire adopter par le Parlement une
                                                      t
refonte du cadre juridique et reglementaire lregissant les entreprises publiques
(dispositions gCnCrales rCgissant les entreprisespu liques, loi rCgissant les etablissements
publics, et loi regissant le desengagementde 1'Etat es entreprises publiques et les formes
diverses de participation etlou d'association du sekteur privi dans les Eps. En effet, les
dispositifs juridiques et reglementaires actuels ne dent satisfaisants ni pour la gestion des
entreprises publiques, ni pour la promotion de                     publics privks qui sont un
element essentiel de lareformedes entreprises

82.     Et cinquikmement, nous attendons                         capacitCs institutionnelles de
gestion et de surveillance des                                   A ce propos, les termes de
reference pour le recrutement des                               ont en elaboration dans le but
(i)d'achever les travaux dam                                    2004; et (ii) proceder a
                                                                                de
l'elaboration d'un plan d'actions dans la deuxikme partie de 1'annCe en vue de l e u
mise en Oeuvre aussitet que possible aprbs.
                                                            I I
                                                              1
V.      Ressources naturelles

83.     Objectifs.       Dans les deux secteurs (f4estier t minier), l'objectif global est
que l'important patrimoine public du pays pgisse               ieux contribuer a la relance
economique, au developpement rural et a la redudtionde la pauvrete, tout en preservant
sur le long terme l'intdgritk des ecosyst&me$ et 1' nvironnement. Les rkformes
specifiques visent a :

    (i)     amkliorer la gouvemance et la transparence dans la gestion des ressources
            forestibres et mini&res, par l'adoptidn de nouveaux cadres juridiques et
            reglementaires (code minier, code forestier), qui sont propices a la
                                                        ,

  DesprP-audit environnementuux de la SNCC,                    RVA, LAC,OCPT, SNELont
aussi Cte effectues, facilitant ainsi le travail prkli         e restructuration ou de reforme
de ces entreprises.


                                                                                             21

                                                           !I
            participation de l'investissement prive dans        secteurs et contribuent a la
            croissance Cconomiqueequitable et soutenable        le planenvironnemental;
            rendre plus clair et plus Bquitable l'accb aux ressources forestieres et
            minibres, ainsi que l'acces aux benefice$issus e leur exploitation;
            renforcer la capacitB des institutions des de      secteurs a faire respecter les
            nouveaux cadesjuridique et rdglementaire;
   (iv)     mieux sBcuriser les droits (fonciers et abtres)    toutes les parties prenantes;
   (v)      rkhabiliter rapidement la production dinitre de manitxe durable dupoint de
            vue economique, environnemental et soqial ;et,
   (vi)     reformer les entreprises publiques mhi$res t rdduire la participation de
            1'Etat dans les activitks de production.

A.      Secteur Forestier

84.     L'agenda prioritaire du Gouvernement pow la relance du secteur forestier vise 51
ce que cet important patrimoine public dont disposp le pays contribue mieux A la relance
economique et au developpement rural, tout en prkdervant sur le long terme l'integriti des
Ccosystbmeset leurs services environnementaux. L@sreformes en cours dans le cadre de
cet agenda prioritaire s'appuient entikrement sur la mise en euvre du nouveau Code
forestier.  Elles visent (i) a rendre    plus clair et plus equitable l'accts     la fois aux
ressources forestibres et aux bendfices issus de ltur exploitation ; et (ii)a faciliter la
relance de l'industrie du bois tout en assurant que icelle-ci se deroule de faqon durable et
dans 1'interCt a longterme de la communaute natiooale.      ,,
                                                             I
1,      Les rialhations

85.     En2002, apres l'adoption du nouveaucod#forestier, notrepriorite a dte de passer
en revue les concessions existantes din d'ex6iner la conformit6 avec les clauses
principales des contrats et pour assurer le retour ab domaine public des concessions non
mises en valeur et/ou non exploitees selon les terhes des contrats. Sur 300 contrats, le
Gouvemement a annul6 140 contrats et le travail cbntinuera pendant 2004.

86.     Le Gouvernement a aussi decide de mettrb en place un moratoire sur l'octroi de
nouveaux contrats en attendant de dCfinir lesl nouvalles methodes d'adjudication,
notamment les appels d'offre, pr6vues par le nouvdau Code forestier.

2.      Les actions Ci rialher en 2004-2005

87.     Pendant 2003, le Gouvernement a accom liune evue Cconomique de la filiere-
bois dont les recommandations, presentees sous f rme d scenarios, sont a l'examen par
                                                     s        i
le Gouvernement. Celles-ci visent a simplifier la structure du regime de fiscalit6
forestitre, A diminuer la pression totale et 5 securiber les procedures de recouvrement. Le
                                                             I
re-equilibrage de la fiscalit6 consiste A rCduire leb droits de sortie sur les grumes, ainsi
que les charges parafiscales surtout dans le ddmaine du transport, tout en relevant
progressivement la taxe de superficie pour encowger a mise en valeur effective des
forCts. Dansleur ensemble, ces mesurespourraiexkt contr buer a une relance du secteur et



                                                                                            22

sa contribution a `Cconomie ainsi qu'une augmentation de la part de la rente forestih
revenant a 1'Etat.

88.     D'ici fin 2004, les actions suivantes sont envisagks. Dans le court terme, nous
anticipons, avant fin dCcembre2003, l'aboutissement des travaux relatifs a I'ajustement
de la taxe de superfkie et la reduction de la parafiscalit6 dans la chaine des transports
ainsi que des droits de sortie sur les grumes. Le cas CchCant, ces mesures pourraient
rentrer en vigueur 21 compter du le`      janvier 2004. Deuxicmement, nous entendons
publier d'ici fin mars 2004, le bilan de recouvrement de la taxe de superfkie pour
l'annee 2003 et d'appliquer les dispositions contractuelles qui prevoient la resiliation des
contrats pour les socittds qui ne se sont pas acquitteesde leurs obligations fiscales au titre
de la taxe de superfcie.        Troisibmement, nous entendons lancer le programme de
conversion des anciens contrats en concessions d'amenagement durable, conformkment
au nouveau code forestier. Ce programme sera conduit avec l'appui d'un observateur
independant et sera ached dans une pdriode de 12 mois. Les contrats caducs ou
defaillants seront resiliks, et la nouvelle liste de concessions valides publiCe.

89.     Par ailleurs, au cours de l'annhe 2004, le Gouvemement continuera d'appliquer
le moratoire sur toute allocation de titre forestier par gre-&-gr6. I1rendra operationnel le
Programme de Securisation des Recettes Forestieres, qui sera gCr6 conjointement par le
Ministere des Finances et le Ministhre de 1'Environnemetk La quote-part de 40% de la
taxe de superficie sera effectivement rdtrocbdde aux entites locales ddcentralisdes. Les
textes d'application      du nouveau code forestier (agudication des concessions;
amhagement et exploitation, luttecontre l'exploitation ilkgale) seront adoptes. Enfin, la
nouvelle loi sur la Conservation de laNature sera soumise au Parlement.




B. Secteur Minier

90.     Dans le secteur minier, nous mettons l'accent sur (i)la rdforme du cadre
juridique, reglementaire et institutionnel; (ii) restmctutation de la Gecamines ;et (iii)
                                                   la
unaudit dusecteurdiamant.                                     I

 I.     Les realisations

91.     Cadre juridique, rhglementaire et institutionnel.          L e nouveau code minier a
ete promulgue le 11 juillet 2002 apres son adoption par le Parlement. L e nouveau
Reglement minier a aussi ttd approuvd le 26 mars 2003. Quant au nouveau cadastre
minier (CAMI),ilest devenu opdrationnel enjuin 2003.

92,     Pour ce qui est de la restructurationde la GCcamines, ila et6 d'abord procede
a un programme de departs volontaires, couvrant environ 10 500 personnes avec l'appui
de la Banque Mondiale. Ce programme, dCmarre le 11 poGt 2003, se deroule de faqon
tres satisfaisante, et devrait s'achever dans le courant du mois de janvier 2004. En



                                                                                            23

parallele, nous avons fait entreprendre unaudit stratkgique par la societe IMC. La partie
diagnostic a et6 achevde en mars 2003, et approuvde par le Gouvemement en juin 2003.
Le consultant a et6 ensuite charge de prdparer des options en matibre de restructuration de
la societe et a present6 ses conclusions A 1'ECOFIN a la fin septembre2003.

93.      Sur base de ce rapport, le Gouvernementest en train d'examiner ies choix
stratkgiques h prendrepour une restructurationdkfinitive de cette entreprise.

2.       4ctions hprendre d'icifin 2004

94.      Cadre juridique, rhglementaireet institutionnel. Ence qui concerne la reforme
du cadre legal et institutionnel du secteur minier, l'accent sera mis pendant2004 sur la
diffusionet la vulgarisation duCode minier et larestructuration duCadastreminier. Pour
cela, le Gouvemement va proceder a une ample diffusion des textes et a des campagnes
de formationaux nouvelles procedures avant la fin mars 2004.

95.
Cadastre minier et a la mise en place de dispositifs de gestion financiere, d'audit et de
         Par ailleurs, le Gouvemement va proceder a la restructuration de la gestion du

suivi et evaluation de la performance cadastrale avant la fin mars 2004, de faqon A
preserver la credibilite du nouveau cadre 18gal pour le sacteur minier et l'intdgrite de
1'Administration minibre. Paralltlement, la Commission de Validation des Titres Miniers

conflits lies a la proprietd minibe. I1 proctdera immidiatement a un nouvel
sera mise en place, et ses membres design&, avant fin janvier 2004, pour analyser les

assainissement des titres miniers dont l'objectif est de resoudre, dans lapdriode, au moins
85% des conflits identifies avant fin juin 2004.              1

96.      Au niveau de la restructurationde la GCcamines, les consultants retenus pour
examiner les accords de partenariat et prkparer les statuts de la nouvelle sociCtC devraient
commencer leur travail durantjanvier 2004 et deposer leurs rapports dkfinitifs avant fin
juin 2004. Ceci devrait permettre la validation definitive de la strategic de restructuration
au niveau gouvememental entre juillet et septembre 2004, et sa prtsentation au
Parlement avant fin dicembre 2004, dans le contexte d'une loi de restructuration de la
Gecamines qui dtfinirait le programme d'activites ainsi que les institutions mandatees
pour sa mise en aeuvre, et autoriserait la cession des actifs ou la mise en partenariat des
actifs de cette entreprise. Nous pensons que l'approche ddcrite ci-dessus, y compris
 l'adoption d'une loi particuliere, est le meilleur moyen d'assurer la reussite de la
restructuration de la Gecamines.
   ill,  Secteurs sociaux

 97.     Les Objectvspour la pbiode 2003-2005. L e programme du Gouvemement vise
 des reformes importantes dans les secteurs sociaux (sant8, Mucation et protectionsociale)
 d'ici 2005. I1 y a lieu de noter en particulier (a) la realisation d'etudes sectorielles et la
 preparation de strategies sectonelles chiffrees qui constituent des repkes pour le point
 d'achevement dans le contexte de 1'Initiative PPTE renforck ;et (b) la rehabilitation des
 infrastructures.   Ces secteurs Mneficient d'un appui technique et financier important de
 l'IDA, a travers le ((Programme Multisectoriel dTJrgence de Reconstruction et de


                                                                                            24

Rehabilitation (PMURR))) dont les indicateurs de performance         ((physiques)) ont et6
definis.
1.      Rialisations                                     I!' `
                                                             yi'
98.     Sunti. Dans le cadre du PMURR, huit contrats ont et6 sign& avec les Mdtres
d'ouvrages DCleguCs(MOD) repksentant dorenavant untotal de 41,8 millions de dollars
d'assistancea m 67 zones de sante ciblees par le projet. La proposition du Ministere pour
la partie renforcement des capacites institutionnelles au niveau provincial et national du
projet PMURR est en cours de finalisation. Comme prevu, le Minist4re de la Sante a
lance le rapport d'Etat Sant6-PauvretC (RESP) en septembre 2003 afm d'etablir le
diagnostic du secteur et construire undialogue de politique $ante.

99.     Education. Le gouvernement procede actuellement A la mise en Oeuvre de la
rehabilitation des 140 ecoles qui ont &e sdlectionnees par le projet au cours de la
ptiriode. Le Rapport d'etat du systeme Cducatif national ((RESEN)) est en cours
d'exicution et les recommandations prdliminaires devraient Ctre diffUsCes dans les
semaines A venir. Ce diagnostic de base           constituera le point de depart pour (i)
l'elaboration de la strategie sectorielle, et (ii) pland'action pour atteindre les criteres
                                                d'un
duprogramme Education pour Tous D.
                ((


100.    Protection sociale.Des etudes qualitatives sur les risques et la vulnkrabilitt des
pauvres ainsi que sur les personnes handicapees ont ktk realisdes en 2002-2003 et sont
maintenanten cours de publication. Unprojet de fonds social est actuellement a l'etude.
Enfinle manueld'exdcution de la sous-composante (( groupes vulnerables       ))du PMURR
a ete adopte et un premier lot de huit micro-projets a et6 retenu pour financement par
1'IDA.

        Les actionsprivues en 2004-2005

101.    Sante`. D'ici mars 2004, l'acceleration de la mise en auvre des 8 contrats de
MODSdevrait montrer des rksultats visibles dans l'amelimation de la prestation des
services de bases awc populations couvertes par le projet PMURR. Le travail du
Ministere de la SantC devrait Ctre facilitC par la mise en auvre des $7 millions consacres
au support institutionnel au niveau provincial et central. Une version preliminaire du
RESP devra avoir et4 realisee avec le concows de la Banque mondiale.           La version
finale duRESP sera disponible en octobre 2004. I1servira de base aux discussions sur la
strategie globale sectorielle de la RDC et permettra d'avmcer dans la definition du
DSRP. Cette stratkgie permettra dans la periode 2004-2005 de debuter la reflexion sur la
reforme du secteur dans le cadre reglementaire et budgetaire.

102. Education. Le plan d'action pour le programme            ((Educationpour Tous devra
                                                                                   ))
Ctre present6 a la communautC des bailleurs de fonds en mars 2004. Ence qui concerne
la rehabilitation d'infiastructures, les ouvrages devront &re dans la dernikre phase de la
rehabilitation avant fin mars2004. Les resultats preliminaires de l'ttude RESEN auront
ete largement diffuses avant fin mars 2004. La version finale du RESEN devrait &re
disponible en aoit 2004, ce permettrait la preparation de la stratdgie sectorielle de bien



                                                                                         25

avancer. C o m e pour la santC elle constituerait un eltment important du DSRP et
constituerait par ailleurs un rephre pour le point d'achevement dans le contexte de
l'hitiative PPTErenforcke.

103.    Protection sociafe. Unprogramme global pour le secteur sera developpi au cours
des prochains mois sur la basedes dtudes qui ont Cte meneesjusqu'a present, et pourrait
Ctre prCt d'ici finjuin 2004. Cette strategie inclura(i) les actions du gouvemement dans
le domaine de la protection sociale (ii) actions des pwenaires dans le domaine de
                                          les
protection sociale et (iii) budget et les sources de finance&ent pour ces activites.
                         le

VII. Agricultureet dheloppement rural

104.     Objectifs. Nos objectifs en matibre de developpement rural pour la periode
2003-2005 sont: (i)   l'amelioration de la sCcurit6 alimentaire des populations males ;et
(ii)developpementd'unestrategiededeveloppementruralamoyenetitlongtermeen
    le
vue d'une croissance soutenue de la production et des revenus agricoles. Cette strategie
est un refire    pour le point d'achevement dans le contexte de 1'Initiative PPTE,
actuellement prCvupour le troisibme trimestre de 2006.

105.    Pour augmenter la capacite de productionagricole, le Gouvernement a mis en
Qeuvrepour la campagne 2002-2003 (avec l'appui du projet PMURR) unprogramme de
multiplication de semences (manioc, mais, Iegumineuses). En outre, un programme
pilote de rdhabilation de 32 ha de pkrimhtres rizicoles est en cours de lancement avec
l'appui de la coopdration chinoise ;l'objectif d'ici 2005 &ant la rdhabilitation de 850
hectares. Enfin, les etudes pour unprogramme d'aviculture amdlioree, de l'amelioration
de l'elevage des petits ruminants, de relance de la pisiculture et de la pCche artisanale
sont en cours de preparation et devraient demarrer en debut 2004.

106.     L'amdioration de l'efficacitt de la commercialisation des produits agricoles
proceded'un programme de rdhabilitation de pres de 5000 km de pistes rurales d'ici Juin
2005. La premibre phase de ce programme, qui est appuyC par le PMURR et couvre
environ 1200 km est en cours de lancement et les travaux devront demarrer d'ici fkvrier
2004. Entre temps, les travaux sur les ouvrages d'art (refection des ponts) ont dtmarrC
depuisjuin 2003. De mCme, ilest prkvula mise en place d'un systbme d'information sur
les prix des marches des produits agricoles, qui devrait Ctre operatiomel d'ici juin 2004.

107.     En ce qui concerne le dhveloppement d'une stratbgie rurale, les deux
principaux axes sont (i)la relance des principales filibres agro-industrielles (palmier a
huile, coton, cacao, cafe robusta et arabica, hCvea, et (ii) developpement des petites et
                                                            le
moyennes entreprises privies. Les etudes y afferentes devraient &re lancCes dans le
premier trimestre de 2004, en meme temps qu'une etude sur l'environnement
rdglementaire et fiscal des agro-industries.      Les resultats de ces 6tudes ainsi que
l'experience de la mise en Oeuvre des activitds liees a la relance de la production et
l'amelioration des infrastructures communautaires Ctablirontla base pour la formulation
de la strategie de ddveloppement rural.                          1




                                                                                         26

VIII. SECTEUR DESINFRASTRUCTURES(ROUTES, ENERGP ELECTMQUEETEAU)

108.    Dans le domaine des infrastructures, nous avons deux objectifs : (a) la
rehabilitation des infrastructures ii l'echelon nationalet (b) la modernisation du
cadre juridique et reglementairepour les secteurs-cle, notammentl'energie et l'eau.
Nos efforts dans le domaine de la rehabilitation des infrastructures sont largement
finances jusqu'a present par la Banque Mondiale a trawers (i)         le PMURR pour un
montant de $454 millions, qui couvre l'ouest et le sud du pays, c'est a dire dans les
provinces  ((securisees ))au moment de l'entrke en vigueur du projet en septembre 2002;
(ii)volet appuibudgetaire))duCreditdeRelanceEconomique($42millions)et (iii)
    le       G
le Projet d'Urgence de Soutien au Processus de Reunification Economique et Sociale
(ECOP) dont la composante Infrastructure s'6leve a plus de $ 120 millions (sur $ 214
millions). Ce projet conceme essentiellement les provinces du nord-est du pays qui ont
ete reunifides. Ce projet important est entree en vigueur depuis le mois de novembre
2003.

A,      Travaux de RChabilitationphysique

109.    Projet d'Urgence de Rehabilitation et de Reconstruction (PMURR). L'objectif
du Projetd'Urgence de RBhabilitationet de Reconstruction(PMURR) est de donner
une impulsion au processus 5 long terme de rthabilitation et de reconstruction
kconomique.

110.    Ce projet couvre les secteurs suivants :les transports, 'Clectricitd, 'eau potable et
les services urbains .

1.      Rdalisations depuis Juin 2002jusqu`Ci Septembre2003

111.    L a firme intemationale, chargCe de la maitrise d'ouvrage par delegation du
Ministhe des Finances, a Cte selectionnee en novembre 2002 et s'est effectivement
installee en mai 2003. Elle a ,depuis lors, lancC des etudes sur l'ensemble du programme.
Considerant 1'importance des travaux d'infrastructures a entreprendre, des etudes precises
sont necessaires pour definir la nature exacte des travaux. I1 est donc clair que la lere
annde est consacree aux etudes et que, par consequent, aucuns travaux visibles ne seraient
perceptibles dans un premier temps. Neanmoins, toutes les activitks ont commence dans
toutes les composantes du projet.

        Rialisationsd'ici mars 2003 et septembre 2005

112.    Les previsions de realisations se resument c o m e suit, pendant les deux
prochaines anntes:


        Routes : toutes les etudes ont ete lancCes pour approximativement 3.000 km de
        routes: Les travaux devraient commencer ipartir de juillet 2004, apres la
        selection des entrepreneurs par appel d'ofie international, et devraient s'achever
        2 ans plus tard.


                                                                                          27

  V Transport : les Ctudes ont et6 lancdes pour l'ensemble des secteurs (RVM,
      Onatra, RVF, SNCC, CNPR,. ..). Les travaux p o d e n t commencer a compter
      du le` avril2004 et seront termines dans deux ms.
   >  Electriciti : une ttude importante a commence en fin octobre 2003, concemant
      1'Ctat des lieux des installations de la SNEL et duma 11 mois. Des travaux
      urgents de fiabilisation de la capacite de production        600 MW pourraient
      commencer au courant du premier semestre de 2004. Mais les grands travaux de
      rehabilitation ne debuteront qu'en 2005 et prendront environ 3 ans.
  >   Eau :Les etudes pour Kinshasasont terminees ;les appelsd'offie de travaux sont
      en cows de lancement. Le debut des travaux est prevu pour avril 2004, aprts la
      selection des entreprises ;ces travaux devraient durer 18 a 24 mois. D'autre part,
      le plan directeur est en cows de prtparation. En cc qui conceme la reforme
      institutionnelle, les TDR sont encows d'elaboration.

   Y Rehabilitation urbaine :les etudes ont ete achevks ;deux appels d'offre ont ttt
      lances et attribues ; ces deux importants marches de travaux de rehabilitation
      urbaine (avenue Kasa-Vubu et les erosions de Selembao) devraient commencer au
      debut de 2004 pour se terminer avant fin 2005.

Crtdit de RelanceEconomique

113.  Par ailleurs, dans le cadre de l'operation d'appui budg6taire initiee en 2001 (CRE
I), montantde$42millionsaeteaffecteAlarealisationdeprojetsdepetiteoude
  un
moyenneenvergure, ayant cependantunimpact socio-economique visible et immediat.

Realisations




                                                                                       28

1 14.   Cette enveloppe financibre, gede par le BC             titre de maltre d'ouvrage
dBligu6, itait d6caissb en dkembre 2002. Elie est
doit avoir 6td decaissee    hauteur de 70% en fin d'               .entibrementont
                                                                                engagde et
                                                                    Ces fonds       servi B
concurrence d'environ 90% au financement de
biitiments) et d'bquipements techniques, et ce, es
transports(70%), de la sante et de l'dducation. Enra
communication, la trks grande majorite (80%) des proj         sont toutefois realis& dans
et aux alentours de laville de Kinshasa. Les travaux seront4chevCs avant fin mars 2004.

Projet d'Urgence de Soutien au Processus de Rdtlaification Eeonomique et Sociale
(ECOP).
115.    Le projet aura pour objectif d'assister le ciou         ent dans le processus de
r6unification economique et sociale      , de gdndrer           idendes de la paix qui
contribueront it la stabilisation du pays en finang"             tis de &habilitation dans
1'Est du pays 06 aucun programmemajeur d'assistanc               quen'a encoredti misen
place.

  16,   Deux programmesont it6 retenusdans le domaine de$infrastructures :

        Un programme d'inhtructures routieres (90 M $) avec en particulier la
        rehabilitation des 2 axes strategiques:Kisangani  - B4niet  Mbuji-Mayi Bukavu.
                                                                                 -
        Le projet financera Cgalement le demier trongon entrq le port de Matadi et le pont
        Mpozo pour claturer la rehabilitation globale de la robte entre Kinshasa et le Port
        de Matadi.

        Un programme de rdhabilitation urbaine (30 M $ , concernant d'une part 4
        capitales provinciales (Kisangani, Goma, Bukavu,     k indu), et d'autre part des
        activitis dans diverses villes dupays.

Leprogramme devrait commencerau dtbut de 2004.

B.      Rbformedu Cadre Juridique et Rdglementairedam4 leseeteurenergdtique
117.    En 2004, nous entendons rdviser le cadrejuridique e4 rdglementaire rigissant les
activitis dans les domaines de I'inergie (pdtrole, energie ele+trique et eau). Nous avons
commend ce processus par la tenue d'une Table Ronde s q 1'Eau au courant du mois
d'octobre et nous envisageons de faire la meme chose pour le secteur de l'dlectricitd au
de janvier 2004. I1s'agit dans les deux cas de la premikre etape d'un processus de
concertations, que nous estimons essentiel pour faciliter la preparation d'une ligislation
refletant un consensus partage par toutes les parties prenahtes et la prdsentation des
projets de textes correspondantsiideposerii1'AssembleeNatiqnale iila fin de I'annde.
       Je vous pried'agrder, Monsieur le Prbident, I'expresdion de matrks haute




                               DrANDRE-PHILIPPEFUTA
                                    Ministredes Finances


                                                                                         29

                                                       Annex 3
                                Letter of Development Policy -Policy Matrix
                                     English Translation of French Original
  A. Poverty
 Area of          Activities                             Duedate          Comments
 intervention
 I-PRSP           Preoaration o f I-PRSP                 Mid-2002         Completed
 Preparation of   Elaborationand adoption of action      Mid-June 2003    Completed
 finalPRSP        olan and chronogram
                  Organization o f workshop launching    By end           Heldduring 8-10 December 2003
                  an Information, Education,             November 2003
                  Communication campaign
 Consultations    Holdparticipatory consultations        January - May    Informationand educationcampaignon
                                                         2004             the PRSP process began on December
                                                                          15, 2003 via radio, television and
                                                                          printed press; province-level
                                                                          committees were created at the endo f
                                                                          December 2003; methodology and
                                                                          questionnaire for consultations were
                                                                          finalized and will be validated during
                                                                          an international workshop scheduled
                                                                          for 26-28 January 2004, prior to
                                                                          beginningconsultations.
                  Editingand deliverv of reoorts         June - July 2004
  Thematic groups Contributions of thematic groups and   By endOctober    Groups already definedmethodology
                  sector ministries                      2004             and are working
~~
  Povertysurvey   Pilot test of nationalpoverty survey   November -       Completed April 2003
                                                         December 2002
                  Launch o fpoverty survey               January 2004     The quantitative survey was expanded
                                                                          upon; with the help ofProject
                                                                          CAPNAT (French) and technical
                                                                          assistance o f AFRISTAT, a workshop
                                                                          validating and finalizing the
                                                                          questionnaire was heldon 23 January
                                                                          2004; the first stage o f data collection
                                                                          will begininmid-April.
                  Completion o f survey                  December 2004    The 1-2-3 Survey is scheduled to be
                                                                          completedby January 2005.
                  Finalization o f report                EndFebruary
                                                         2005
                  Distributiono f report to ministries,  Early May 2005
                  provinces, communities, partner
                  organizations




 Draft PRSP       First draft o f full PRSP comoleted    Aoril 2005
                  Distributiono f draft PRSP to          June 2005
                  international and national partner
                  organizations
                  Finalization o f draft



                                                         81

                Distribution o f draft PRSP to Govt     EndAugust 2005
                Adoption o f PRSP                       EndOctober    This is a HIPC Completionpoint
                                                        2005          trigger

 B. MaintainingPeace andImprovingGovernance

Area of         Activities                              Due date       Comments
intervention
Support peace   Decisions on security sector reform     December 2003
                to define the nationalDDRprogram,
                including demobilization criteria
                Put inplace the institutional structure December 2003  The IntenninisterialCommission
                to steer and implement the national                    Responsible for the Formulation and
                program, notably the National DDR                      Direction o f DDR matters was created
                Commissionand the Executive                           by decree N o 03/041on December 18,
                Secretariat. The Manager o f the                       2003; the National Commission on
                Executive Secretariat i s appointed.                   Disarmament, Demobilization and
                                                                       Reinsertion was createdby decree No.
                                                                       031042 on December 18,2003; the
                                                                       Committee Managing Disarmament,
                                                                       Demobilization and Reinsertion funds
                                                                       was createdby decree No. 031043 o n
                                                                       December 18,2003. All o f these
                                                                       decrees await Presidential amroval.
                The national DDRprogram i s             January 2004
                finalized after consultations and
                national dissemination
                Disarmament and demobilization          Beginning in   Individual demobilization orders have
                phase                                   April 2004     been given; demobilized chddren were
                                                                       placed intransit centers and orientation;
                                                                       identification and certificationwere
                                                                       carried out by the National Bureau of
                                                                       Demobilization and Reinsertion
                Reinsertion and reintegration phase     Beginning in
                                                        November 2004
Fight against   Enactment o f decree on Code o f        November 2002  Done
corruDtion      Good Conduct for Civil Servants
                Preparation and submission to           Before end     The draft law was sent to the Ministry
                Parliament o f anti-corruption law      November 2003  o f Justice for re-reading and for taking
                                                                       into consideration observations from the
                                                                       IMFLegalDepartment. Itwill be
                                                                       presented to the government at the
                                                                       beginning o f Februarv 2004.
                Preparation and transmission to         October 2003   This draft law was discussed at
                Parliament draft law against money                     ECOFIN; it will be presentedto the
                laundering and financing o f terrorism                 government during January 2004. It will
                                                                       be submitted to Parliament before end
                                                                       January 2004.
                Adoption o f law against money          Before end     Under preparation during February
                laundering                              December 2003  2004




                                                       82

Area of         IActivities                           Duedate           Comments
intervention
Public           Revision o f budget nomenclature      July 2002-       Classification o f expenditures i s
expenditure                                            present          subjected to constant changes; the last
management     I1                                                       revision took place inNovember 2003.
                 Modernization ofpublic expenditures   July 2001- June  The expenditures chain was published
                 system, and preparation o f manual on 2003             inMay 2003; all stages of
                 expenditure chain                                      implementation of the new chain have
                                                                        been accomplished; it i s ready to be
                                                                        used.
                 Implementationo f computer link       August 2003      Operational butnot yet fully so.
                 between Treasury - and Central
                 Bank
                ~



                 Implementationo f new expenditure     August 2003      Ongoing
                 chain                                                  Expenditure chain was launched; but
                                                                        Finance and Budget are awaiting radio
                                                                        transmission o f new chain.
                 Classification o f expenditures by    Starting         The revised budgetwas adopted in
                 their nature                          November 2003    November 2003 and was presented
                                                                        usingnew classifications. The first
                                                                        budget i s currently subjected to
                                                                        application o fnew classifications.
                 Establishment of poverty expenditure  September 2003   Created in October 2003
                 monitoring committee
                 Productiono f quarterly budget        Beginning in     HIPC completionpoint triggers
                 execution reports (i) usingeconomic,  2004
                 administrative and functional
                 classifications; and (ii)for HIPC-
                 financed expenditures.
                 Audit o fsalary paymentprocess        January - end    TOR approved; Consultant recruitment
                                                       April 2004       under way
                 Implementationo f new system          Before end       T o be basedo n audit results.
                                                       January 2005
                 Securization o f central file on      Endof2004
                 government personnel
                 Implementationo f double-entry        2004 - 2005      This is a HIPC completionpoint
                 national chart o f accounts                            trigger
Procurement      Completion o f a complete audit o f   Before end April Bank mission completed o n time in
systemreform     procurement system                    2004             November.
                 Elaboration and implementation of a   2004 - 2006      This is a HIPC completionpoint
                 new procurement code and its                           trigger
                 principal application decrees                          Final CPAR i s being awaited.




                                                      83

Area of    Activities                              Duedate           Comments

           Institutional audits o f selected       2004-2005         Institutional audits o f selected
reform     ministries                                                ministries i s ongoing for the Civil
                                                                     Service Ministry;the Ministries o f
                                                                     Finance and Budget were audited; the
                                                                     work o n financial administration i s due
                                                                     soon; the program aims to do the audit
                                                                     o f the Ministryo f Planbeginning in
                                                                     April. These audits are being financed
                                                                     bv Belgian Technical Cooperation.
           Audit o fservice delivery systemfor    During2004         Thisis a HIPC completionpoint
           health, education andjustice and                          trigger
           rural development
           Brainstorming on completion o f         2002              Completed
           general census o f civil servants
           Elaboration on and validation o f       July 2003         Completed
           terms o f reference for census
           Recruitment o f group incharge o f      By 1June 2004     Process, managed by Belgium, i s under
           leading the census, by intemational                       way
           procurement                                               International procurement bidding
                                                                     notice will be issuedbefore end
                                                                     February; census o f Civil Service
                                                                     Ministrywill be managedby Belgian
                                                                     Cooperation; the general census will
                                                                     benefit from financing from the World
                                                                     Bank and the EU.
           Fieldwork (census)                      SeptemberiNove
                                                   mber 2004
           Creation o f revised personnel file     1January 2005     Awaiting general census results.
           which can serve as the basis for a file
           for payments o f civil servants, and
           canbe used for the new pay system
           Definition o f a framework for          Start o f 2003 to  Strategy was suspended
           retirement program o f civil servants   now
           already at retirement age




                                                  84

Area of           Activities                               Due date          Comments
intervention
                  Definition o f a detailed strategy and   2004              Tranche release condition for CSR
                  action retirement program o f civil                        reformfloating tranche
                  servants already at retirement age                         The Civil Service Ministry prepared a
                                                                             retirement program which has 2
                                                                             components: (i)   retreat of 73,769 civil
                                                                             servants having spent 30 years or
                                                                             longer inservice or having reached 50
                                                                             years o f age o n December 3 1,2003; the
                                                                             creation o f a commission composed o f
                                                                             representatives ftom the Ministries o f
                                                                             Civil Service, Finance, Budget and
                                                                             Interior is envisaged; this commission
                                                                             will be responsible for determining the
                                                                             procedures for paying out the
                                                                             retirement packages in'Kinshasa and
                                                                             the provinces.
                  Departure o f first group o f civil      Duringsecond
                  servants into retirement                 half o f 2004
                  Second group o f departures              Duringsecond
                                                           half o f 2004 and
                                                           2005
Decentralization  Presentation, discussion and             December 2003     The decentralization law i s being
                  adoptation o f a draft law on the                          preparedby the Ministryo f Interior,
                  organization o f the country                               Decentralization and Securitv.
Judicial system   Audit report on the Congolese            Before end        Report will be ready inFebruary 2004
                  judicial system                          December 2003
Modernize and     Revision o f the judiciary and legal     2002              Completed through adoption o f new
strengthen legal  framework                                                  laws governing central bank,
and regulatory                                                               commercialbanks and savings
framework                                                                    institutions.
Strengthen        Annual audits, undertakenby                                Completed, under IMF supervision
Central Bank      intemational auditors                   I2ooo-2002
                  Implement actionplan to strengthen       2001- present     Ongoing, under IMF supervision.
                  BCC as a financial institutionper se,
                  and inits role as monetary authority




                                                           85

 C. FinancialSector


Area of           Activities                               Due date            Comments
intervention
Restructure       Decisionto liquidate 3 public             March 2003         Decision has beenmade
commercialbanks commercialbanks (NBK,BCA,
                  BCCE)
                  Finalization o f a series o f audits o f  July - September   Audits have been completed; audit
                  other commercial banks                    2003               reports have been given to the Central
                                                                               Bank. Banks have until January 31,
                                                                               2004 to submit restructuring plans.
                  Preparation and finalization o f bank     Before end         The banks obtained a moratoriumuntil
                  restructuring plans for audited banks     December 2003      January 31,2004 so that they can
                                                                               present their restructuring plans; the
                                                                               banks which are judged insolvent based
                                                                               on audit results and for whom
                                                                               restructuring plans are inadequate will
                                                                               face the danger o f liquidation.
                  Completion o f patrimonial audits o f     Before end
                  NBK.BCA andBCCE                           November 2003
                  Establishment o f formal agreement        Before end         See above
                  with BCC on restructuringdans             March 2004
                  Cancellation o f operating licenses o f   Before end         See above
                  banks determined as non-viable            March 2004
                  following audits
                  Implementationo f regular                 During2004
                  supervision o f banks
                  Reinforcement o fprocedures o f           During2004
                  agreement on criteria o f eligibility
                  for stockholders
                  Preparation o f a new chart of            To be
                  accounts                                  operational as o f
                                                            January 2005




                                                           86

 D. Private Sector Development
Area of           Activities                             Duedate            Comments
intervention
Judicial reform   Reform o f new investment and           2002              Completed
                  labour codes
                  Publication o f new miningcode          2002              Completed
                  Publishprincipal decrees o f            2003              Completed
                  application o fnew mining code
                  Adoptation o f new forestry code        August 2002       Completed
                  Creation o f commercial tribunals       2002              Completed
                  Designation o fpersonnel to work at     2003              Ongoing
                  the commercial tribunals
                  Creationby ministerial decree o f a     June 2003         Completed
                  national arbitration center
                  Creation o f ANAPI                      2002              Completed
                  Creation and operationalization o f     July 2003         Completed
                  Single Customs Window at Port o f
                  Matadi
Taxation          Publication o f new customs tariff      2002-2003         Completed
                  Finalize new customs code               Before end June
                                                          2004
                  Suspension o f certain fiscal and       Nov 2003          Completed
                  parafiscal levies
                  Preparation o f action plan for reform  N o w until end
                  o f direct and indirect taxes           June 2004
                  Preparation o f global action plan for  2004
                  direct and indirect tax reform as
                  concerns firms
Labour            Finalization and adoptation o f main    During 2004       Ongoing
regulations       decrees concerning application o f
                  Labour Code
Business-related  Comprehensive audit                     Firsttrimester of To beundertakenwith assistancefrom
administrative                                            2004              FIAS
Drocedures
Domestic debt     Audit o f government arrears to the     September 2003    Completed
                  private sector between 1July 1997
                  and 31December 2001
                  Audit o f claims generated before 30    Before end
                  June 1997                               December 2003     The audit is ongoing until January 31,
                                                                            2004, due date for submission o freport.
                  Preparation o f actionplan for          Firstsemester of  Plan satisfactory to IDA, and
                  resolving problem o f internal debt     2004              adopted by government, will be
                                                                            tranche release condition for the
                                                                            "Internal Debt" Tranche
                  (i) Complete process o f certification  During 2004       An ministerial commissionwas created
                  and reconciliation o fprivate                             to negotiate with creditors and fix
                  enterprises' financial claims on the                      conditions o f guaranteed debt
                  State; (ii)negotiate with creditors the                   payments.
                  payment o f credits and (iii)actual
                  payment o f credits



                                                         57

Area of    Activities                               Duedate       Comments

           Adoption o f an Action Plan for the      December 2003 The Ministryo f Budget, PTT and
           control o f utilitybills financed by the               Public Works and Investment have
           government budget (petroleum,                          arrangements to modernize phone,
           water, electricity and telephone)                      water and electricity and gas utilities
                                                                  and consumption.
           Establishment o f a system o f           By January    The Ministry o fBudget i s working
           monthly flat rate payments, for          2004          together with SNEL and REGIDESO ;
           electricity and water, on the basis o f                procedures will be defined before end
           estimated consumDtion                                  January 2004.
           Implementationo f actionplans,           2004          Tranche release conditionfor the
           acceptable to IDA, by the electricity                  "public utility"tranche
           company (SNEL) and the water                            SNEL already presentedits plan;
           company (REGIEDESO) to improve                         REGIDESO is currently finishingits
           billingto government entities.                          O w n .
           Establishment o f Trust Accounts by      2004          Tranche releaseconditionfor the
           SNEL and REGIEDESO, for                                 "public utility"tranche
           reception o f the flat-rate payments                    The Ministryo f Budget, REGIDESO
           for utilities.                                          and SNEL are working together on
                                                                   procedures for provision o f these
                                                                   accounts anduse o f funds to be placed
                                                                   inthese accounts.




                                                    88

  E. Public Enterprise Reform


 Area of            Activities                                Due date          Comments
 intervention
                    Brainstorming workshop on                 September 2001    Completed
                    desirability and principles o f reform
                    Creation o f COPIREP by presidential      30 October 2002   Completed
                    decree
                    Nomination o f Executive Secretary        July 2003         Completed
                    and two deputies
                    Implementation o f technical              During 2004       Ongoing
                    committee o f COPIREP
                    Distribution to Government o f            April 2003        Completed
                    accounting and operational audits o f
                    certain enterprises
                    Make fully operational sectoral           During2004        Sector groups are currently being
                    working groups and studies on                               created.

I                 IIprocess of reform o fpublic
                    entemrises inkey sectors               II                 II
                    Preparation o f action plans for          During2004
                    reform o f public enterprises :
                    Gecamines, RVA, SNCC, LAC,
                    Cititrain, OCPT and SNEL
                    Preparation and adoption by               During2004
                    Parliament o f ajudicial and                              I
                                                                              I
                    regulatory framework onpublic
                    entemrises                               I                I
                    Improve institutional capacity in         To be completed
                    management and surveilliance o f          before end June
                    public enterprises                        2004




                                                              89

 F. NaturalResources

Area of          Activities                             Due date        Comments
intervention
Forestrv sector  Adopt new forestry code                August 2002     Completed
                 Adoption o f application decrees of    During 2004     Underpreparation
                 new forestry code
                 Cancellation o f contracts not inline  2002 - 2004
                 with new forestry code and                             The list of cancelled contracts was
                 moratorium on new contracts                            DublishedinDecember 2002.
                 Completion o f economic review         2003            Completed inSeptember 2003
                 Beginning o f work relative to         Before end
                 adjustment o f area tax and reduction  December 2003   An interministerial decree is being
                 of indirect taxation on transport, and                 circulated for signature; the Minister o f
                 exit                                                   Environment already signed it and sent
                                                                        itto the MinistryofTransportation; this
                                                                        decree will have to also be signed by
                                                                        the Ministries ofFinance andIndustry.
                 Publish area tax collected in2003      Before March    The General Directorate of
                 and apply contractual arrangements     2004            Administrative Receipts is currently
                                                                        preparing this.
                 Launchprogramconverting old            Before end of   Based on the results.
                 contracts into sustainable             2004
                 management concessions
                 Make operationalprogramo f             During 2004     Brainstorming i s ongoing and based on
                 Forestrv Revenues                                      Cameroonianexuerience.
                 40% of area tax redistributed to local During 2004
                 entities
                 Submission to Parliament o f new law   During 2004
                 on Nature Conservation
                 Enactment o fnew minine code           11Julv 2002
                 Approval o f new mining law            26 March 2003
                 Operationalization o f new mining      June 2003
                 cadastre
                 Distributiono f mining code and        During 2004
                 restructurine o f miningcadastre
                 Restructuring o f management o f       Before end
                 Cadastre and implementation o f        March 2004
                 financial management tools, auditing
                 and monitoring and evaluation o f
                 cadastral perfirmance
                 Creation o f Commission on             Before end      The draft decree on nomination of
                 Validation o f mining titles           December 2003   members awaits examination by the
                                                                        Council o f Ministers.
                 NTW cleaning-up o f miningtitles       Before end June Awaiting operationalization o f
                                                        2004            Commission on Validation o f Mining
                                                                        Titles.




                                                        90

 Area of           Activities                                Duedate              Comments
 intervention
 Restructuringof   Completion o f diagnostic audit           March 2003
 Gecamines                                                  1
I                IIPreparation and presentationo f           EndSeptember
                   oDtions for restructurinp.               I2003               1I                                   I
                                                                     ~




                   Submission o f final report on            Mid-November         Completed
                   restructuring                          12003
                   Examinationby ECOFINand                   2"dhalf o f          The report was examined by ECOFIN;
                   preparation o f management plans          November 2003        upholding measures are under
                                                                                  ureuaration.
                   Completion o f voluntary departures       January 2004
                   urogram                                                   I
                   Examine agreements and prepare            January 2004 -
                   statutes o f new company                  before end June
                                                             2004
                   Definitive validation o f restructuring   Between July
                   strategy at government level              and September
                                                             2004
                   Presentation o f restructuring strategy   Before end
                   to the Parliament                        1December2004       I                                   I




                                                             91

 G. Social sectors                                                           ==7
                                                                              Comments
                                                                             -4
                    MOD contracts, should show visible
                    results inimprovement o f basic

                    the PMURR
                    Final version o f Country Health          October 2004    Work already under way
                    Status Report made available
                    Start o f brainstorming on reform o f     2004-2005
                    the sector and the regulatory and
                    budgetary framework
                    Preparation o f sectoral strategy         2006            This is a HIPC completionpoint
                                                                              trigger
 Education          Action plan for the program               March2004
                    ((Educationfor all mustbe
                                         ))
                    uresented to the donor communitv
                    Rehabilitation o f infrastructure,        Before end
                    works must be inthe first phase o f       March2004
                    rehabilitation
                    Preliminary results o f the CSR study     Before end
                    to be broadly disseminated                March2004
I
I                  1Final version o f the CSR ready           August 2004
                    Preparation o f sectoral strategy      III                This is a HIPC completionpoint
                                                              Before 2o06
 SocialProtection   Completion o f qualitative risk and       2002-2003
                    vulnerability study
                    Global program for the sector will be     Before end June
                    developed within the coming months        2004
                    based on studies already completed




                                                              92

H. Agriculture andRuralDevelopment

                   ~~
Area of          Activities                             Due date             Comments

                                                                           I
                 Implementationo f program o f           2002-2003
agricultural     increasing seeds

                 Rehabilitationo f 850 ha o f irrigated  Fromnow until
                 land                                    2005
                 Studies for improved aviculture         Beginning of
                 program, improvement o f small          2004
                 livestock raising, fish farms and local
                 fishing
                 Improvement o f sale of agricultural    Fromnow till
                 products (access to local markets)      June 2005
                 resulting from rehabilitation o f 5000
                 kmofrural tracks
                 Firstphase o fprogram, supported        Beginning now
                 under the PMURR, covering               through February
                 approximately 1200 kmcurrently in       2004
                 the works
                 Reuairingbridges                        Since June 2003    1
                 Implementationo f an information        N o w till June
                 system o n market prices for            2004
                 agricultural products
Develop a rural  Begin studies                           Strategy due in     Adoption of strategy as a HIPC
                                                         2006                comDletionDoint trigger




                                                        93

 I. Infrastructure(Roads,electricity,andwater)

Area of            Activities                           Due date          Comments
intervention
Rehabilitation     Selectionof international firm in    November 2002
works              charee of works
                   Launching of studies for the entire  2003
                   Drozram
~                  Works to begin, following selection  Starting July
Roads :            of and mobilizationof entrepreneurs  2004 through
                   by international bidprocurement      2006
                   notice
Transportation :   Works inprogress                     1April 2004
                                                        through 2006
Electricity :      Study on state of SSEL installations July 2004
                   Urgent works onproduction capacity   First semester of Consultanthas finished works
                   at 600 megawattsto begin             2004
                   Large rehabilitation works           2005-2007
Water              Execution of works                   April 2004 -      Works are going to start following final
                                                        2006              discussionsamongthe Ministry of
                                                                          Energy, the international company
                                                                          Louis Bereer andREGIDESO.
Urban:             Execution of 2 important works       2004-end2005      Works have alreadybegun
                   (Kasa-Vubu urbanrehabilitation and
                   Selembao erosionworks)
Legal and          Prepare new legal and regulatory     2003-2005         The Ministry of Energy has begunthis
Regulatory         frameworks for petroleum, energy                       work prior to the operationalization of
reform             andwater sectors                                       COPIREP.The two institutions have
                                                                          takenthe work up together.




                                                        94

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede la Lettrede Politiquede DCveloppement


 I. PauvretC
Domaine
d'intervention  Taches 21 faire                            DateprCvue      Commentaires

DSRP-I          DSRP Interimaire prepare                   Mi-2002         A c h e d
PrCparationdu   Plan d'action et chronogramme tlabores     Mi-juin2003     Acheve
DSRPcomplet     et adoptts
                Organisation d'un atelier de lancement du D'ici fin        Cet atelier a eu lieu du 8 au 10
               processus, campagne d'information,          novembre        decembre 2003.
                d'education et communication               2003
Consultations   Tenir les consultations participatives      Janvier - mai  L a campagne d'information et
                                                            2004           d'education sur le processus de
                                                                           formulation duDSRP a dkmarrt le 15
                                                                           dCcembre a la radio, a la television et
                                                                           dans la presse Ccrite ;les comites
                                                                           provinciaux ont Cte installes a la fin du
                                                                           mois de decembre 2003 ;la
                                                                           methodologie et le questionnaire des
                                                                            consultations ont et6 finalises et
                                                                            devront Ctre valides lors de l'atelier
                                                                            international prevudu 26 au 28 janvier
                                                                            2004, avant de lancer les consultations.
                Redaction et restitution des rapports       Juin -juillet
                                                            2004
Groupes         Contributions des groupes thematiques et    Finoctobre      Les Groupes thematiques ont deja
thematiques     les ministkres sectoriels                   2004            defini leur methodologie et travaillent.
Enqudtesur      Teste pilote de 1'EnquCte nationale sur le Novembre - Acheve avril2003
pauvretC        seuil de pauvrete                           decembre
                                                            2002
                Lancement de l'enquste sur la pauvrete      Janvier 2004    Uncalendrier des activites de l'enquCte
                                                                            quantitative a et6 elaborer ;avec le
                                                                            concours de la Cooperation frangaise
                                                                            (Projet CAPNAT) et de l'appui
                                                                            technique d'AFRISTAT, unatelier de
                                                                            validation et de finalisation du
                                                                            questionnaire a eu lieu le 23 janvier
                                                                            2004 ;la collecte Phase 1commencera
                                                                            en mi-avril.
                Achbvement de l'enquCte                     Dtcembre        L e calendrier des activitks de l'enquCte
                                                            2004            1-2-3 prevoit la finpour janvier 2005.
                Finalisation du rapport                     Finfevrier
                                                            2005
                Restitution du rapport auprks des           Debutmai
               ministeres, provinces, communautes,          2005
               partenaires
leebauchedu     1e ebauche du DSRP                          Avril2005
DSRPcomplet
               Restitution aux partenaires internationaux   Juin 2005
               et nationaux
               Finalisation duprojet du DSRP                Juillet - aoQt
                                                            2005
               DepGt duprojet du DSRP au                    FinaoQt2005
               Gouvernement
               Adoption du DSRP                             Finoctobre      Reperepour le point d'achkvement
                                                            2005            PPTE




                                                          95

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matrice de laLettrede Politiquede Dkveloppement


J. Soutien de la paix et bonne gouvernance
Domaine
d'intervention   Taches a faire                             Date prkvue      Commentaires

Soutenir la paix Prendre les decisions relatives a la       Decembre
                 restructuration de l'armCe qui permettront 2003
                 de definir le PNDDR, notamment en ce
                 quiconcerne les critires de
                 demobilisation
                 Mettre en place la structure               DCcembre         La Commission intenninistkrielle chargee
                 institutionnelle necessaire au pilotage    2003             de la conception et de l'orientation en
                 strategique et a la mise en ceuvre du                       matiere de DDRRa CtC par dCcret
                 PNDDR a travers, respectivement, la                         n"03/04 1 du 18 dtcembre 2003 ;la
                 Commission nationale de DDR                                 Commission Nationale de Dksarmement,
                 (CNDDR) et le Secretariat executif.                         Demobilisation et Reinsertion
                 Nommer le Directeur general du                              (CONADER) a CtC creCe par dCcret
                 Secretariat executif.                                       n'031042 du 18 dkcembre 2003 ;le
                                                                             Comite de Gestion des Fonds de
                                                                             Dksarmement, Demobilisation et
                                                                             Reinsertiona et6 creC par le dkcret
                                                                             n"031043 du 18 decembre 2003. Pour tous
                                                                             ces dkcrets, les arr&tCsd'application ont
                                                                             ttC pris et attendent d'Ctre vises par la
                                                                             Prtsidence de la Rtpublique.
                 Finaliser le PNDDR aprbs consultations     Janvier 2004
                 et appropriation nationale
                 Phase de dksarmement et demobilisation     A partir d'avril Les ordres de demobilisation individuels
                                                            2004             ont ete donnCs ;les enfants dCmobilisCs
                                                                             sont cantonnks dans les centres de transit
                                                                             et d'orientation (CTO) ;l'identification et
                                                                             la certification ont et6 effectuees par le
                                                                             BureauNational de Demobilisation et de
                                                                             Reinsertion.
                 Phase de reinsertion et reintegration      A partir de
                                                            novembre
                                                            2004
Lutte contre l a Promulgation du Decret-Loi portant Code    Novembre         AchevC
corruption       de Bonne Conduite de l'agent public de     2002
                 l'etat
                 Preparation et soumission au Parlement     Avant la fin     L e projet de l o i a ete envoy6 au Ministire
                 duProjet de loi anti-corruption            novembre         de la Justice pour relecture et prise en
                                                            2003             compte des observations formulees par le
                                                                             DCpartement Juridique du FMI.I1sera
                                                                             present6 au Gouvernement au debut du
                                                                             mois de fkvrier 2004.
                 Preparation et transmission au Parlement   Octobre 2003     Cet projet de loi a Ctt discutk a
                 duProjet de loiportant lutte contre le                      I'ECOFIN ;celle-ci le prtsentera au
                 blanchiment des capitaux et le                              Gouvernement au courant du mois de
                 financement du terrorisme                                   ianvier 04. I1sera depose au Parlement
                                                                             avant la fin du mois de janvier 04.
                 Adoption de loi contre le blanchiment des  Avant fin        Au courant dumois de fkvrier 2004.
                 capitaux                                   dkcembre
                                                            2003
Gestion des      Revision de la nomenclature des dkpenses   Juillet 2002     L a nomenclature des depenses est sujette
dkpenses         de 1'Etat                                  jusqu'a present  a revision permanente ;la derniire
publiques                                                                    revision opkree en novembre 2003.



                                                           96

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede laLettrede Politiquede DCveloppement



              Taches P faire                             DateprCvue     Commentaires

              Rationalisation et simplification des      Juillet 2001 - Le manuel de la chaine de la depense a Cte
              procedures des dkpenses publiques, et      juin2003       publit en mai 2003 ;toutes les ttapes de la
              preparation du Manuel du Circuit de la                    mise en place de la nouvelle chatne ont CtC
              Depense                                                   accomplies a ce jour ;toutes les phases sont
                                                                        donc prCtes pour l'utilisation.
              Mise en place de la liaison informatique   Aoiit 2003     La liaison est opkrationnelle, mais pas
              Trtsor-Banque Centrale                                    encore totalement utiliske.
              Nouvelle chaine de la dkpense lancee       Aoiit 2003     La chatne a et6 lancee ;mais
                                                                        I'interconnexion avec les cabinets Finances
                                                                        et Budget attend l'installation des relais
                                                                        radio.
              Classification des dkpenses en fonction de A partir de    Le budget amtnage adopt6 en novembre
              leur nature                                novembre       2003 a et6 prtsente selon la nouvelle
                                                         2003           nomenclature, quiprevoit egalement leur
                                                                        classification par nature. L e budget initial
                                                                        est en train de subir le mCme traitement.
              Etablissement d'un comite de suivi de      Septembre      Etabli en octobre 2003
              depenses de la lutte contre la pauvrete    2003
              Preparation des rapports budgetaires       Au debut de    Rephrespour le point d'achhement
              trimestriels (i)classifies selon les       2004          PPTE
              categories kconomiques, administratives,
              ou fonctionnelles ;(ii) les depenses
                                       pour
              likes a la PTTE
              Audit ducircuit de lapaie                  Janvier  -fin  Les termes de reference ont tte validts ;le
r                                                        avril2004      recrutement d'un consultant en cours.
              Mise en Oeuvre d'un nouveau systeme        Avant janvier  Ellese fera sur labase des rtsultats de
              stcuris6 et verrouillk provisoire          2005           1'audit.
              Fichier central skcurise du personnel de   A la finde
              1'Etat                                     2004
              Mise en place d'un plan comptable de       2004 - 2005
              1'Etat en partie double (Rephepour le
              point d'achcvementPPTE)
Rkformedu     Achever unaudit complet du systeme de      Avant la fin   Mission accomplie en novembre.
systkmede la  passation des marches publics               avril2004
passationdes
march& ublics
              Elaboration et mise en Oeuvre d'un         2004 - 2006    L e rapport dtfinitif du CPAR est attendu
              nouveau code de marches publics et de                     pour exploitation.
              ses principaux dCcrets d'application
              (Reperepour le point d'achkvement
              PPTE)
Reformede la  Audits fonctionnels et strattgiques des     2004 - 2005   L'audit fonctionnel des ministbres
Fonction      ministeres s6lectionnCs                                   selectionnts est en cours pour le Ministbre
publique                                                                de la FonctionPublique ;les Ministeres de
                                                                        Finances et du Budget ont Cte audit& ;le
                                                                        travail doit Ctre complete en ce qui
                                                                        conceme les rkgies fmancibres ;le
                                                                        programme prCvoit de passer a l'audit du
                                                                        Ministere du Plan a partir d'avril. Ces
                                                                        audits sont finances par la Cooperation
                                                                        Techniaue Belee.




                                                        97

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede laLettre de PolitiquedeDCveloppement



~
Domaine
 d'intervention     Taches a faire                                DateprCvue    rommentaires

                   Audit dusysteme de prestationsdes              9ucours de
                    services de santt, d'education, dejustice     2004
                    et de developpement rural (Repkre pour
                    le point d'achkvement PPTE)
                    Reflexion sur la realisation d'un             2002
                   recensement gtnerale des agents de 1'Etat
                    Elaboration et validation des TDR du          ruillet 2003  4cheve
                    recensement
                    Recruter le cabinet charge d'effectuer le     4vant le le` L'appel d'offre international sera lance
                    recensement, par voie d'appel                 iuin2004      want fin fevrier ;le recensement du
                    international                                               Ministere de la fonction sera gtrt par la
                                                                                Cooperation Belgique ;le recensement
                                                                                general btneficiera du financement de la
                                                                                Banque Mondiale et de 1'Union
                                                                                curopeenne.
                    Travail sur l e terrain (recensement)         3eptembreinov
                                                                  :mbre 2004
                     Creation d'un fichier revise du personnel    1er janvier   Attente des rksultats du recensement
                     devant pouvoir servir de base pour le        2005          general.
                     fichier de la paie, et Btre exploit6 par le
                    nouveau systime de la paie
                     Definition d'une strategie de mise a la      Debut2003     L a strategie a et6 arr&tte
                     retraite viable pour lesfonctionnaires       jusqu'au
                     eligibles                                    present
                     Definitiond'une strategie detaillee et plan  2004          Le Ministere de la Fonction Publique a
                     d'action de mise a la retraite pour les                    elabore unprogramme de mise a la retraite
                     fonctionnaires (ConditionnalitC de la                      quiprevoient deux volets : (i) retraite
                                                                                                                la
                     tranche de reforme de la fonction                          d'office de 73.769 agents ayant atteint 30
                     publique)                                                  ans ou plus de service ou 50 ans d'ige au
                                                                                31decembre 2003 ;(ii)le versement des
                                                                                indemnites aux agents retraites en 1989,
                                                                                1999 et en 2003 ;ilest prevu la mise en
                                                                                place d'une commission, composee des
                                                                                representants des Ministeres de la Fonction
                                                                                Publique, des Finances, du Budget et de
                                                                                1'Interieur ;cette commission sera chargee
                                                                                de determiner les modalites pratiques de
                                                                                versements des indemnites de retraite a
                                                                                Kinshasa et en provinces.
                     Depart du le` de fonctionnaires a la
                                    lot                           Pendant le
                   ~~      ~




                     retraite                                     deuxieme
                                                                  semestre de
                                                                  2004
                     Deuxieme lot de departs de fonctionnaires    Pendant le
                                                                  deuxieme
                                                                  semestre de
                                                                  2004 et 2005
 DCcentralisation Presentation, discussion et adoption du         Dtcembre      L a loi sur la dtcentralisation est en
                     projet de loi portant organisation du        2003          preparation au Ministere de l'IntCrieur,
                     territoire                                                 becentralisationet Stcurit&.
 Systkme             Rapport : audit du systeme judiciaire        Avant la fin  L e rapport global sera prBt en fevrier 2004.
judiciaire           congolais                                    decembre



                                                                 98

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede la Lettrede PolitiquedeDCveloppement

                                                                             I
Domaine                   a faire
d'intervention    Taches                                     Date prkvue     Commentaires

Modernisation     Revision du cadre juridique et             2002            A c h e d avec l'adoption des lois nouvelles
et renforcement   reglementaire                                              rkgissant la banque centrale, les banques
des capacitks                                                                commerciales et les caisses d'kpargne
des cadres
rkglementaire et
juridique
Renforcement      Audits annuels, entrepris par des          2000 - 2002     Acheve, avec suivi du FMI
des capacitks de  auditeurs internationaux
la Banque
Centrale
                  Mettre en place unpland'action visant A    2001jusqu'au    Encours, sous supervision duFMI
                  renforcer les capacites de la BCC en tant  present
                  qu'Institut d'Emission et Autorite
                  Monetaire
 K. Secteur financier
Domaine
d'intervention    Taches a faire                             Date prkvue       Commentaires

Restructuration   Decision de liquider trois banques         Mars 2003         Decision deja prise
des banques       commerciales publiques (NBK, BCA,
commerciales    IIBCCE)
                  Finalisationd'une serie d'audits des       Juillet -         Les audits ont ete effectues ; les rapports
                  autres banques commerciales                septembre 2003    des audits ont et6 deposes a la Banque
                                                                               Centrale qui a donne aux banques
                                                                               jusqu'au 31janvier 2004 pour deposer
                                                                               leurs plans de resmcturation.
                  Preparation et finalisation des plans de   Avant fin         Les banques ont obtenu unmoratoire
                  redressement                               decembre 2003     jusqu'au 31janvier 2004 pour presenter
                                                                               leurs plans de restructuration ; les
                                                                               banquesjugees non viables sur la base
                                                                               des resultats des audits et dont les plans
                                                                               de restructuration ne seront pas
                                                                                convaincants feront l'objet d'une decision
                                                                                de liquidation ;
                  Finalisationdes audits patrimoniaux de la  Avant fin
                  NBK.laBCA et la BCCE                       novembre 2003
                  L'etablissement d'un accord forme1 avec    Avant finmars      Cfr supra
                  la BCC sur les ulans de restructuration     2004
                  Retrait des agrkments des banquesjugees    Avant fin mars     Cfr supra
                  non-viables a la suite des audits precitks  2004
                  Mise en place d'un systeme regulier de     Au cours de
                  contr6le sur nieces                         2004
                  Renforcement des procedures d'agrkment      Au cours de
                  et des critbres d'eligibilitt pour les      2004
                  actionnaires
                  Preparation d'un nouveau plan comptable     Entrera en
                  bancaire                                    vigueur janvier
                                                              2005




                                                            99

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede la Lettrede Politiquede Dkveloppement


 L. DCveloppementdusecteur privC
Domaine          Taches a faire                              DateprCvue       Commentaires

                 L'approbation de nouveaux codes des         2002             AchevB
                 investissements et du travail
                 Nouveau code minier publie                  2002             A c h e d
                 Principaux dkcrets d'applications du        2003             AchevC




tracasseries                                                 de 2004
administratives

Domaine
d'intervention   Taches a faire                              DateprCvue       Commentaires

Detteintkrieure  Audit des arrierks de paiement de 1'Etat    Septembre 2003   Acheve
                 envers le secteur prive nes entre le 1
                juillet 1997 et le 3 1 dkembre 2001
                 Audit des crkances gCnerees avant le 30     Avant fin        L'audit continue jusqu'au 31janvier
                juin 1997                                    dkcembre 2003    2004, date prkvue pour le dCpGt du
                                                                              rapport.
                 Plan d'action pour l e rkglement de la      Premier semestre Plansatisfaisanta IDA, adopt6par le
                 dette interieure                            de 2004          gouvernement,est uneconditionnalitk
                                                                              dutranche a detteinterne))
                 (i) leprocessusdecertificationet
                    achever                                  Au cours de      Une commission ministerielle a ete
                reconciliation des crkances des              2004             constitute pour nCgocier avec les
                 entreprises privtes sur l'Etat, (ii)
                                                    nkgocier                  creanciers et arreter les modalitts de
                 avec les creanciers le rkglement de ces                      rkglement des creances certifiees.
                 crkances et (iii)
                                 proceder a la mise en
                paiement
                Adoption d'unplan d'action pour le           DCcembre 2003    L e Ministere duBudget,des PTT et des
                contrdle de la facturation des utilitts                       Travaux Publicset Investissementsont
                financees nar le budget de 1'Etat (netrole.                   des dispositions,chacun en ce le



                                                           100

    RkpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede la Lettrede Politiquede DCveloppement


                  eau, electricite, telephone)                                     concerne, pour rationaliser les
                                                                                   utilisations des servi!ces de tClCphone,
                                                                                   d'eau et d'Clectricit6 ainsi que de
                                                                                   consommation des carburants.
                  Etablissement d'un systkme mensuel des         Avant janvier     L e Ministkre du Budget est en
                  paiements forfaitaires, pour l'electriciti et  2004              concertation avec l a SNEL et la
                  l'eau, base sur une estimation des                               REGIDESO ;les modalitCs seront
                  consommations                                                    dCfinies avant la fin du mois de janvier
                                                                                   04.
                  Mettre enplace des plans d'actions,            2004              L a SNEL a dCji present6 son plan ;la
                  acceptables a IDA, par la societe                                REGIDESO est en train de finaliser le
                  d'klectricite SNEL, la societe des eaux                          sien.
                  nationales REGIDESO, avec le but
                  d'ameliorer la facturation des
                  Ctablissements publiques
                  (ConditionnalitC de la tranche    (<utilitCs
                  publiques   M)
                  Etablissement des comptes fiduciaires de       2004              L e Ministkre du Budget, l a
                  SNEL et REGIEDESO, pour reception                                REGIDESO et l a SNEL sont en
                  des paiements forfaitaires pour les utilites                     concertation sur les modalitks
                  (ConditionnalitC de l a tranche a utilites                       d'alimentation de ces comptes et
                  publiques D)                                                     d'utilisation des fonds a loger dans ces




Domaine                                                          Date prCvue       Commentaires
d'intervention    Taches 21 faire

                  Atelier de reflexion autour de                 Septembre 2001    Achevt
                  l'opportunite et des principes de la
                  reforme
                  Creation du COPIREP par decret                 30 octobre 2002   Acheve
                  prksidentiel
                  Nomination d'un secretaire executif et de      Juillet 2003      A c h e d
                  deux adjoints
                  Mettre en place le Comite Technique du         Au cours de       Encours
                  COPIREP                                        2004
                  Diagnostic comptable, fonctionnel et           Avril2003         Achevt
                IIoperationnel de certaines entreprises
                  remis au Gouvernement
                  Rendre pleinement opkrationnels les           IAu cours de      ILes groupes sectoriels sont en train d'Ctre
                                                                                          ~~
                  groupes-sectoriels de-travail et d'etudes      2004              constituks.
                  sur le processus de lareforme des
                  entreprises publiques dans les secteurs
                  jug& prioritaires
                  Preparation des plans d'actions pour la        Au cours de
                  reforme des entreprises publiques              2004
                  Gecamines, RVA, SNCC, LAC, Cititrain,
                  OCPT et SNEL
                  PrCparer et faire adopter par le Parlement     Au cours de
                  une refonte du cadre juridique et              2004
                  rkglementaire regissant les entreprises
                  publiques
                  Ameliorer les capacites institutionnelles      A accomplir
                  de gestion et surveillance des Entreprises     avant la finjuin
                  publiques                                      2004



                                                               101

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matrice de la Lettrede Politiquede DCveloppement


 N. Ressources naturelles
Domaine
d'intervention      Taches a faire                               DateprCvue       Commentaires

Secteur             Adoption du nouveau code forestier           AoQt 2002
forestier         1IAdaptation des textes d'application du       Au cours de      Enphase prkparatoire
                    nou;eau   code forestier                     2004
                    Annulation de contrats non-conformes au      2002 - 2004      L a liste des concessions defaillantes a
                    nouveau code forestier et moratoire sur de                    t t C publiee en dtcembre 2002.
                    nouveaux contrats
                    Achevement d'une revue economique et         2003             RCalisCe en septembre 2003
                    fiscale
                    Aboutissement des travaux relatifs a         Avant fin       UnarrCtC&erministtriel est entrainde
                    l'ajustement de la taxe de superficie et la  decembre 2003    circuler pour signature ;le Ministre de
                    reduction de la parafiscalite dans la                         1'Environnement a deja sign6 et
                    chaine des transports ainsi que des droits                    transmis au Ministre des transports ;cet
                    de sortie sur les grumes                                      arrete devra Ctre sign6 egalement par
                                                                                  les ministres des Finances et de
                                                                                  1'Industrie.
                    Publier le bilan de recouvrement de la       Avant finmars    L a Direction GCnkrale des Recettes
                    taxe de superficie pour l'annke 2003 et      2004             Administratives et Domaniales est en
                    appliquer les dispositions contractuelles                     train de preparer le bilan en question.
                    Lancer le programme de conversion des        Avant fin de     Sur la base dubilan
                    anciens contrats en concessions              2004
                    d'amenagement durable
                    Rendre operatiomel le Programme de           Au cours de      L a reflexion est en cours et se fonde sur
                    Securisation des Recettes Forestieres        2004             l'experience du Cameroun
                    40% de la taxe de superficie de              Au cours de
                    retrocession effective aux entites locales   2004
                    dkcentralisees
                    Soumission au Parlement de la nouvelle       Au cours de
                    loi sur la Conservation de la Nature         2004
Secteur minier      Promulgation du nouveau code minier          L e 11juillet
                                                                 2002
                    Approbation du nouveau reglement             L e 26 mars 2003
                    minier
Cadastre minier Mise en oeuvre dunouveau cadastre                Juin 2003
                    minier
                    Diffusion et divulgation du Code minier      Au cows de
                    et la restructuration du Cadastre minier     2004
                    Restructuration de la gestion du Cadastre    Avant fin mars
                    et la mise en place deldispositifs de        2004
                    gestion financiere, d'audit et de suivi et
                    d'kvaluation de la Performance cadastral
                    Creation et mise en place de la              Avant fin        L e projet de decret de nomination des
                    Commission de Validation des Titres          decembre 2003    membres attend d'Ctre examine en
                    Miniers                                                       conseil des ministres.
                    Nouvel assainissement des titres miniers     Avant finjuin    Attente de l'entrke en fonction de la
                                                                 2004             Commission de Validation des Titres
                                                                                  miniers.
Restructuration Achtvement de l'audit diagnostic                 Mars 2003
des GCcamines
                    Preparationet presentation des options de    Finseptembre
                    restructuration                              2003
                    Remise durapport final sur la                Mi-novembre      Achevee


                                                               102

  RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede la Lettrede Politiquede DCveloppement


            restructuration                               12003
Domaine     Taches a faire                                 Dateprkvue       Commentaires

            Examenpar ECOFINet preparation de              2emoitie de      L e rapport a et6 examine a I'ECOFIN ;
            mesures conservatoires de gestion a            novembre 2003    les mesures conservatoires sont en
            prendre dans l'immediat                                         preparation
            Achevement duprogramme de departs              Janvier 2004     Acheve
            volontaires
            Examendes accords de partenariat et            Janvier 2004 -
            preparer les statuts de la nouvelle societe    avant finjuin
                                                           2004
            Validation definitive de la strategie de       Entrejuillet et
            restructuration au niveau gouvememental        septembre 2004
            Presentationde strategie de                    Avant fin
            restructuration au Parlement                   decembre 2004




                                                       103

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matrice de laLettrede Politiquede DCveloppement


0. Secteurssociaux
Domaine         Taches a faire                               Date prCvue       Commentaires
d'intervention
SantC           L'acckleration de la mise en ceuvre des 8    Mars 2004
                contrats de MODSdevrait montrer des
                resultats visibles dans l'amtlioration de la
                prestation des services de bases aux
                                                                              K
                populations couvertes par le projet
                PMURR
                Version fiiale du Rapport sur 1'Etat de la   Octobre 2004      Encours
                Sante (RESP) disponible
                Debut de reflexion sur la rtforme du         2004-2005        1
                secteur et le cadre rtglementaire et
                budgetaire
                Preparationd'une strategie sectorielle       2006              Rep&repour le point d'achkvement

Education       Le plan d'action pour le programme      ((   Mars 2004
                Educationpour Tous (EPT) devra etre
                                        D
                prtsente 21 la communautk des bailleurs de
                fonds
                L a rehabilitation d'infrastructures, les    Avant fin mars
                ouvrages devront Ctre dans la premibre       2004
               phase d'exkcution
                L e s rksultats preliminaires de l'etude     Avant fin mars
                Rapport sur 1'Etat de 1'Education             2004
                 (RESEN) auront ete largement diffuses
                L a version finale du RESEN devrait Ctre      Aoiit 2004
                 disponible
                Preparation d'une strategie sectorielle       Avant 2006       Repkrepour le point d'achkvement

Protection       Rtalisation des etudes qualitatives sur les  2002-2003
sociale         risques et la vulnkrabilitt
                Unprogramme globalpour le secteur sera        Avant la finjuin
                 developpe au cours des prochains mois        2004
                 sur la base des etudes qui ont kt6 menBes
                jusqu'a present
P. Agriculture et dkveloppement rurale
Domaine          Taches a faire                               Dateprkvue       Commentaires
d'intervention
Augmenter la     Mise en ceuvre d'un programme de             2002-2003
capacitC de     multiplication de semences
production
agricole       __L a rehabilitationde 850 ha en irrigation    D'ici jusqu'a
                                                              2005
                _______~
                 Les etudes pour unlarge programme            Au debut de
                 d'aviculture ameliorke, de l'amtlioration    2004
                 de l'elevage des petits ruminants, de
                relance de la pisciculture et de la pCche
                 artisanale
                 L'amklioration de l'efficacitt de la         D'ici juin 2005
                 commercialisation des produits agricoles
                procide d'une programme de
                rehabilitation de prbs de 5000 kmde



                                                            104

    RCpubliqueDCmocratiquedu Congo: Matricede la Lettrede Politiquede DCveloppement


                 pistes rurales                                               I
                 L a premiere phase de ce programme, qui    D'ici fevrier
                 est appuy6 par l e PMURR et couvre
                 environ 1200 kmest en cours de
                 lancement et les travaux sont en
                 execution
                 Travaux sur la refection des ponts         Depuisjuin2003
                 Mise enplace d'un systeme d'information    D'ici juin 2004
                 sur les prix des marchts des produits
                 agricoles
Dkveloppement    Debutdes etudes                            Strattgie pr6vue   Adoption de la stratkgie est unrepbe
d'une stratkgie                                             pour 2006          pour le point d'achcvement PPTE


 J. Infrastructures(Routes,knergieklectriqueet eau)
Domaine          Taches h faire                             Date prkvue        Commentaires
d'intervention
                 Selection de la firme internationale       Novembre 2002
                 chargte de la maitrise d'ouvrage
                 Lancement des etudes sur l'ensemble du     2003
                 programme
Travaux de       Les travaux devraient commencer,           A partir dejuillet
rehabilitation   suivant la selection et mobilisation des   2004 a 2006
physique         entrepreneurs par appel d'offie
Routes :         international
Transport :      Travaux en realisation                     le` a
                                                               avril2004
                                                            2006
Electricitk :    Etude concernant 1'Ctat des lieux des      Juillet 2004
                 installations de la SNEL
                 Travaux urgents de fiabilisation de la     Premier semestre   L e consultant a fini
                 capacitd de productiona 600 MW             de 2004
                 pourraient commencer
                 Grands travaux de rehabilitation           2005 - 2007
Eau :            Execution des travaux                      Avril2004 -        Les travaux vont dCmarrC
                                                            2006               incessamment, apres les dernibres
                                                                               concertations entre le Ministere de
                                                                               l'Energie, la Firme Internationale Louis
                                                                               Berger et la REGIDESO.
                 2 importants marches de travaux            2004 - fin 2005    Les travaux ont deja demarrt.
~
Urbain :
                 (rthabilitation urbaine de Kasa-Vubu et
                 travaux d'erosion de Selembao)
Cadrejuridique Preparationdes nouveaux cadres               2003 - 2005        Le Ministere de 1'Energie avait
et rkglementaire judiciaires et reglementairesdes secteurs                     commencC ce travail avant l'entrte en
                 petroliers, d'energie et d'eau                                fonction du COPIREP. Les deux
                                                                               structures ont repris ensemble le travail.




                                                          105


                                                      Annex 4
                                 Congo, Dem. Rep. Social Indicators
                                                              Latest single year                  Same regionlincome group
                                                                                                            Sub-
                                                                                                         Saharan           Low-
                                                       1970-75        I980-85      1995-2001               Africa       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                     23.1           31.3            52.4               673.9       2,505.9
  Growth rate (% annual average for period)                 2.6           3.1              3.0                2.5            1.9
Urban population (% of population)                                                                           32.3           30.8
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                     6.4           6.7              6.1                5.1            3.5
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index
  Urban headcount index
  Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                       460           250               80                 460            430
Consumer price index (1995=100)                               0             0        261,306
Food price index (1995=100)
INCOMEKONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
  Health (% of GDP)                                                                        1. I               2.5            1.1
  Education (% of GDP)                                                                                        3.4            2.8
  Social security and welfare (% of GDP)
Net primary school enrollment rate
("A of age group)
  Total                                                     68                             33
     Male                                                   83                             33
      Female                                                53                             32                  52
Access to an improved water source
("Aof population)
  Total                                                                                    45                  58             76
      Urban                                                                                89                  83             90
      Rural                                                                                26                  46             70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
  Measles                                                                   40             46                  58             60
  DPT                                                                                      40                  53             61
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                        29                             34
Life expectancy at birth
(Years)
  Total                                                     47              51             45                  46             59
      Male                                                  46              49             45                  45             58
      Female                                                49              53             46                  47             60
Mortality
   Infant (per 1,000 live births)                           139           129              129                105             80
  Under 5 (per 1,000live births)                           228            208              205                171            121
  Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1,000 population)                                                          571                520            312
      Female (per 1,000 population)                                                        493                461            256
  Maternal (modeled, per 100,000 live births)                                              940
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)                                                 70

Note: 0 or 0 0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between 1997 and 1998 due to
change from ISCED76 to ISCED97; ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies between the estimates of school-age population
and reportedenrollment data

2003 World Development Indicators CD-ROM,World Bank
                                                          i o 7


                                                         Annex 5

                          Congo, Dem.Rep. at a dance                                                                         9/.Z03
                                                                                              -"-
                                                                   sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Congo,  Saharan   LOW-
                                                       Dem. Rep.  Africa Income        Developmentdlamond`
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                              53.8    688    2,495
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           90                                    Life expectancy
                                                                    450     430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                              5.0    306    1,072
Average annual growth, 199642
                                                                                       2
Population ("6)                                              2.9     2.4     1.9
Laborforce ("hj                                              2.6     2.5     2.3                                           Gross
                                                                                       capita                          enrollmentprimary
Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 1996-02)
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                               33     30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                               45       46     59
Infant mortality (per 1,000livebirths)                      125     105      81
Childmalnutrition("6of childrenunder5)                                                       Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)          45       58     76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 154                            36       37     37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)          47      86      95              -      Congo, Dem. Rep.
    Male                                                     4s       92     103                     Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                   44       80     87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                  1982     1992    2001    2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                     Economlc ratlos'
                                                  13.6       8.2     5.2     5.7
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                        8.3      6.9     5.1     7.1
Exports of goods and servicedGDP                  12.1      16.7    17.8    18.4                        Trade
Gross domestic savingdGDP                           6.5      6.1     6.2     4.0
Gross national savings/GDP                          4.0      5.0     1.2     5.3    I                      T

Currentaccount balance/GDP                         -3.8    -10.6    -2.4    -3.9
Interestpayments/GDP                                0.5      0.3     0.0     1.5       Domestic                        Investment
Total debtlGDP                                    37.2    133.7    219.6   144.0       savings
Total debt service/exports                        13.2       5.6     1.7    81.5
Present value of debVGDP                                           204.6
Present value of debVexports                                     1,029.1
                                                                                                     Indebtedness
                                                                                              -
                                      1982-92 1992-02      2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                      -0.6      -3.4     -2.0     3.0     6.0                      Congo, Dem. Rep.
GDP per capita                           -3.8      -6.3     -4.6     0.2     3.2                      Low-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services              2.0       7.8      2.0     8.0




                                                  1982     1992    2001    2002        Growthof Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
AgriCUltUre                                       30.1      49.0    56.3    56.3       40

Industry                                          26.7      16.4    18.8    18.8       20
  Manufacturing                                   14.4       4.9     3.9     3.9
Services                                          43.2      34.6    24.9    24.9        0

Privateconsumption                                84.0      72.2    92.4    92.3      .zo
General government consumption                      9.5     21.7     1.4     3.7                -
                                                                                      ::L&
Importsof goods and services                      14.0      17.5    16.7    21.5                        GDI     e G D P


                                               1982-92 lgg2-02     2o01    2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                                Growth of exports and Imports(%)
Agriculture                                        2.6      -0.4    -5.4
Industry                                           -4.5     -3.6    3.8
  Manufacturing                                    -3.7                      !
Services                                           -1.0     -8.7    -8.7     3.0       o
Privateconsumption                                 2.6      -3.3   -28.3    16.7     +3
General government consumption                     -1.6    -16.8    -5.2    16.7     .5O
Gross domestic investment                          -9.8     2.8    -12.1     4.7              -Exports          &Imports
Imports of goods and services                      3.9      12.4    10.0    37.0




                                                              109

                                                                                                                Annex 6
                                                                                                               Page 1 of 2




                                  Congo, Dem. Rep. Key Economic Indicators
                                                        -Annex  6




                                                          Actual               Estimate           Projected
                 Indicator                       1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005     2006   2007
National accounts (as YOof GDP)
Gross domestic producta                            100     100     100    100       100   100     100      100      100
 Agriculture                                        56      63      60      58
 Industry                                           20      20      20      19
 Services                                           24      30      27      26

Total Consumption                                   82     107     100      99
Gross domestic fixed investment                     22       5       5       7       14     17      18
 Government investment                                1      0       0       0        7     10      10
 Private investment                                 21       5       5       7        7      7       8


E X ~ O ~ ~ S
         (GNFS)~                                    23      22      19      19
Imports (GNFS)                                      26      21      18      22
Gross domestic savings                              18      -7       0       1
Gross national savings'                             10     -13      -4      -3

Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                            4435   4304    4880    5530      6624  7493     8482
(US$million at currentprices)
GNI per capita (US$,Atlas method)                  250     130      80      90
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1987prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices           -4.4   -7.0    -2.0     3.0      5.0    6.0     7.0
 Gross Domestic Income                             -7.1    7.8      1.6    4.4
Real annualper capita growth rates (YO,calculatedfrom 1987prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices           -7.1   -9.5    -4.6     0.2      2.2    3.2     4.1
 Total consumption                                  3.2    0.4   -29.6    13.6
 Private consumption                                4.3    0.9   -30.2    13.6
Balance of Payments (US%millions)
 E X P O ~ ~(GNFS)~
             S                                    1021     963     961    1190     1265   1437    1659     2101
   Merchandise FOB                                 974     892     880    1088     1150   1312    1528     1988
 Imports (GNFS)~                                   758     920    1067    1415     1686   2063    2447     2707
   Merchandise FOB                                 458     680     807    1061     1296   1600    1915     2128
 Resource balance                                  263      43    -106    -225     -421   -626    -788     -606
 Net current transfers                              18     136     228     278
 Current account balance                          -113    -199    -250    -160     -206   -461    -563     -609
 Net private foreign direct investment            -208     -50      -7      12      -41     52     161      327
 Long-term loans (net)
  Official                                            8      0        0    167      167    -60     -94      -70       -89
  Private
 Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissions)
 Change in reservesd                               694     830     709  -10168       25       5    -49

Memorandum items
Resource balance(% of GDP)                          5.9     1.o    -2.2    -4.1     -6.4   -8.4    -9.3
Real annual growth rates ( YR87 prices)
 Merchandise exports (FOB)
  Primary
  Manufactures
 Merchandise imports (CIF)

                                                                                                                 Annex 6
                                                                                                                Page 2 of 2


                             Congo, Dem. Rep. Key EconomicIndicators
                                                         -
                                                      (Continued)


                                                            Actual                Estimate          Projected
                  Indicator                  1999        2000       2001    2002   2003    2004   2005     2006  2007

Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
 Current revenues                                 4.8         5.1       6.2    8.3    10.8   12.3   15.4
 Current expenditures                            10.1       10.7        7.7    9.4    11.0   10.5    7.4
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)      -5.3        -5.6      -1.5   -1.1    -0.1    1.9    8.0
 Capital expenditure                              0.0         0.5       0.1    1.o     4.2    8.2   11.1
 Foreign financing                                0.0         0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0

Monetary indicators
 M2iGDP
 Growth of M 2 (YO)
 Private sector credit growth /
 total credit growth (%)

Price indices(YR87 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index
 Merchandise import price index
 Merchandise terms of trade index
 Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)'

 Real interest rates
 Consumer price index (% change)               284.9      511.0       135.0   16.0     8.0    6.0    5.0
 GDP deflator (% change)                       415.4      554.6       403.0   27.0    14.3    7.8    6.3



a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increaseinUS$/LCUdenotes appreciation

    Project         US$                Objective            ApprovalI     Disbursed        Rating
                     mil.                                  Effectiveness end CY03         IP DO1
                                                                                        T
                    -
Emergency            50    Rehabilitate key road between   July 20011       100 Yo
Early Recovery             Kinshasa and the sea.           Dec. 2001
Project                    Fund community initiatives;
                           Support H N I A I D S programs;
                    -      Provide institutional support
Economic             450   Help DRC with foreign
Recovery Credit            exchange immediately after      July 2002
                           arrears clearance and support
                           reforms (incl. in miningand
                    -      forestry sectors)
Emergency           454    Rehabilitate key infrastructure
Multi-sector               and social services delivery.   Nov. 2002
Rehabilitation &
Reconstruction
Project
                    ~
Private Sector       120   Help improve the business       July 2003 I       14 Yo
Development                environment;                    Dec. 2003
and                        Support restructuring o f key
Competitiveness            public companies;
Project                    Join the Africa Trade
                    __     Insurance Agency (ATI).
   Operationnot includedin 2001TSS, approvedto respondto rapid developments
Emergency           214    Support economic and social     Sept. 2003 I      23 %          s     s
Economic and               reunification through balance   Dec. 2003
Social                     o f payment support,
Reunification              institutional strengthening,
Support Project            infrastructure repairs, and
                           community-driven
                           development.


Southern Africa      178   Support rehabilitationof DRC    Nov. 2003 /        0 Yo        nla   nla
Power Pool                 power grid ($177 million) to    nla
Project                    facilitate regional integration
                           o f the power networks and
                           exports to Southern Africa.
Multi-country        26    Support reintegration o f       nla                31 %         s     s
Demobilization             targeted groups o f ex-fighters
and                        through a series o f programs.
Reintegration
Program (special
projects)
    A.   (*)Rating: IP = ImplementationPerformanceRating; DO = Development Objectives Rating



                                                  112

                                           Annex 8
              DemocraticRepublicof Congo: WorldBank-IMFRelations

1. This is an important occasion" to take stock o fthe progress made over the past 12
months and to reassert our commitment to further support the authorities' efforts to
solidify peace, reunitethe country and improve economic and social conditions inthe
Democratic Republic o fthe Congo.
2. At the outset, the authorities should be congratulated for their steadfast efforts inthe
consolidation o fpeace and inthe implementation o f their economic program. Inour
view, 2003 has been a year of considerable progress on the political side, culminating in
the nomination o fthe transition government and other institutions inmid2003. This has
set the stage for a two-year transition period leadingup to free and transparent elections
in2005. Thenewall-inclusive government appearsto be functioning well, with
particularly good coordination so far o f economic and financial matters. Despite, the
overall progress toward the reunification o f the country, the security situation inthe
northeast o fthe country remains tense and ensuring security over the entire territory will
continue to be a major challenge. Inthis regard, we welcome the UNSecurity Council's
resolution o f last July which increased the size and broadened the mandate o f the United
Nations ObservationMission inthe Congo.
3. The mainchallenges for the next two years will be to ensure security throughout the
entire country, including the creation o f a national army and police, ensure effective
reunification through a rapid adoption and implementation o fthe law on decentralization,
andprepare and hold free and transparent elections. These challenges will have to bemet
while maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment, deepening the structural reform
agenda, redeploying the authority o f the state over the entire territory and addressing the
dire social conditions, particularly inthe provinces that havejust been reunified. We note
with satisfactionthat the government actionprogrampresented to Parliament byhis
Excellency President Kabila on December 2,2003 includes clearly the intention to move
forward inthese areas. The intemational community has a key responsibility inhelping
the authorities meet these challenges, a subject to which Iwill retumlater. Suffice to say
that a timely andwell-coordinated assistance by the intemational community i s essential
not only for the attainment o f the objectives o f the authorities' economic program
supported by the Fund, but also for the consolidation o fpeace and stability inthe Great
Lakes region as a whole.
4. Remarkableprogress has beenmade under the economic program o f the government
so far. Economic growth i s projected to accelerate to 5 percent in2003, with all sectors
posting a positive rate o f growth for the first time inmany years. Inflation i s decelerating
faster than anticipated, with end-periodinflation falling from 511percent in2000 to less
than 5 percent at the end o fNovember 2003, while the exchange ratehas appreciated in
recent months with the progressive retumof confidence inthe Congolese Franc.
5. On the fiscal side, the 2003 supplementary budget has been approvedby Parliament.
Notwithstandingthe implementation o f strong fiscal measures bythe new government
since July 2003, the cumulative outcome for the period January-September 2003 deviated

loIMF Statement, Donors' Meetingonthe Democratic Republic ofCongo, Paris, December 17-18, 2003.


                                              113

somewhat from the program target, as slippages inthe second quarter could not be
compensatedfor. These slippages were mainly the result of expenditure overruns,
unprogrammed domestic debt repayments, and difficulties inimplementingtax reforms
duringthe transitionperiodleadingupto the nomination o fthe new government. The
originally envisaged shift inthe composition o f expenditure toward social related
expenditures i s expected to be only partially realizedin2003, reflecting inpart lower
than expected project-relateddisbursements. Donors' fulfillment o f their commitments in
a timely and coordinated manner i s essential to avoid disruption inprogram
implementation and the compromising o f objectives that we all share. This i s crucial to
ensure that peace dividends benefit the entire population.
6. Onthe monetary side, with the deceleration o f inflation, the Central Bank o fthe
Congo continued to lower its discount rate. The Central Bank made progress in
implementingits actionplanto improve its accounting, operations andmanagement with
the helpo ftechnical assistance from the Fundand, inparticular, two resident experts.
The external audits o f all commercialbanks havebeenfinalized with the help o fthe
World Bank. The Central Bank will draw up a list o fbanks to be liquidated, privatized, or
restructured before the end of this year. With the envisaged recapitalization o fthe Central
Bank, 2004 should be the year o fthe effective restructuring o f the banking system.
7. Structural and sectoral reforms are progressing well with the help o f the World Bank,
particularly inthe mining, forestry andpublic enterprise sectors. Most public enterprises
havebeen audited and restructuring plans for the most important ones are being prepared.
Several measures have beentaken to strengthen governance. Inparticular, the laws
against corruption and on combating money laundering and the financing o f terrorism
will be submittedto Parliament soon. An external audit o fthejudiciary is being
undertaken with the help of the EUand Belgium. Additional work i s needed to improve
implementationo f the new miningcadastre and actions are beingtaken with the help o f
the World Bank to ensure the full transparency o f its operations. We also note the
intention o f the government to define a sectoral approach for the diamond sector.
Assistance from the international community has a keyrole to play inimproving
transparency inthis delicate but very important area, particularly with the view to
maximizing future export receipts and fiscal revenues. Inthis regard, we also welcome
the intention oft he government expressed inits action planto redouble its efforts to
establish the rule o f law and to combat corruption at the highest levels. Perseverance in
strengtheninggovernance andrespect for the rule o f law will greatly enhance the support
o f the general population to the ongoing adjustment efforts.
8. InJuly 2003, the DRC reached the decision point under the enhanced HIPC Initiative,
making it eligible for external debt relief. The IMFand the World Bank have began
providing interim assistance to the DRC inline with their commitment to the Initiative.
Furthermore,the Paris Club o f creditors agreed inNovember 2003 to top up the debt
relief that was agreed in September 2002 to take into account the DRC's qualification for
enhanced HIPC assistance. Without the fullparticipation o f all creditors inproviding
their share o f debt relief under the enhanced HIPC Initiative, the goal o f alleviating
poverty and solidifying peace inthe country will be difficult to achieve. Indeed, even if
all creditors participate inthe enhanced HIPC Initiative, the debt situation inthe DRC
will remain fragile, as debt service will continue to account for a hefty share o f



                                             114

govemment revenues over the mediumterm. It i s therefore critical for the authorities to
persist with strong economic policies that aim at enhancing their repayment capacity on
the one hand, through the mobilization o f domestic revenues and the control o f
government expenditure, and securing continued donor support on the other. However,
external assistance may also be neededto enable the authorities to meet their debt service
obligations without adversely impacting their poverty reduction efforts. We therefore
supportthe World Bank's proposalto establish amulti-donor Trust Fundto complement
the DRC's efforts in servicing multilateral debt.
9. The IMFmission that recently visitedKinshasareached understandings, ad
referendum, on the overall macroeconomic targets for 2004 as well as on the main
aggregates o f the 2004 budget. The 2004 program envisages a real growth rate o f 6
percent, an annual average inflation rate o f 6 percent and an increase in gross
international reserves to about eight weeks of non aid-related imports. These targets will
be achieved through the implementationofprudent fiscal and monetary policies inthe
context o f the floating exchange rate system.
10. The 2004 budgetwill be "a pro-poor and reunificationbudget", with a substantial
increase inthe share o fpoverty-reducing expenditures, the details o fwhich are being
worked out with the World Bank. The budgetprovides for an increase inthe wage bill,
reflecting inpart the 10percent increase inwages, the payment o f civil servants inthe
reunifiedprovinces, andthe cost o fthe de facto mergersince last October o f all military
forces inthe army, pending the creation o f a leaner national army inthe coming year. The
2004 budget thus provides for the payment o f salaries to all soldiers untilthe middle o f
2004, at which time the donor-financed demobilization program i s expected to begin.It i s
therefore important for the authorities to move speedily with the implementation of the
demobilization program and also for donors to provide the requiredfinancing ina timely
fashion. The potentially very harmful consequences of leaving armed combatants unpaid
should not be underestimated inthe context o f the current political situation inthe
country and inthe region.
11. Measures aiming at enhancing revenue mobilization andexpenditure management
will continue to be implementedwith the help o ftechnical assistance fromthe IMF and
its three other resident experts. The 2004 budget will be presented according to a new
expenditure nomenclature which should greatly enhance the tracking o f expenditure,
including those which are financed by HIPC Initiative debt relief. The full
implementation o f the expenditure procedures reinstating and rationalizing the full
expenditure chain i s set to be effective end-2003. Ifnecessary, a supplementary budget
law, consistent with the overall program objectives, will be presented to Parliament later
inthe year. The supplementary budgetarylawwill take into account, among other things:
(i) outcomeofthismeeting;(ii) impactofthecreationofanewnationalarmyand
   the                                 the
police and the implementation o f the demobilization of soldiers to be financed by the
international community; (iii)   the impact o fthe law on decentralizationwhich would
define, inter alia, the transfer o frevenues to provinces; and(iv) the preparation o fthe
elections, expected to be largely foreign financed.
12. On the structural side, reforms will be deepened and progressively implemented, with
the help o f the World Bank, inthe entire reunified territory. The restructuring o f the
commercial banks and of public enterprises will start effectively in2004. The reform o f


                                              115

the civil service with thehelp ofBelgiumwill beimplementedonthe basis o fthe
finalization o fthe audit o f the wage payments systemwith the help o fFrance, together
with the completion o fthe retirementprograminthe coming months with the helpofthe
World Bank. Regarding the PRSPprocess, the work program has been revisedto ensure
the completion o fthe full PRSP by July 2005, as originally scheduled. Inthis regard, the
authorities intendto proceed with an information campaign explaining the modalities o f
the PRSP participatoryprocess, and with the launching of anationalpoverty survey.
13. The needs inthe DRC are enormous and the 2004 program i s only able to support a
bareminimumofthose needs. Only ifa strong stepped-up commitment from all donors is
forthcoming, will the current program be able to accommodate more adequately the
urgent social needso fthe country, without adversely affectingmacroeconomic stability.
Itwould also bebeneficial ifmost donors providedtheir support to the DRC increasingly
inthe form ofgrants, giventhe dire debt situation ofthe country. To enhance the conduct
andeffectiveness o fmacroeconomicpolicy, it would also be desirable for donors to
provide direct budgetary and balance o fpayments support. Inthis context, we hlly
support our colleagues from the World Bank intheir proposal to increase not only your
contribution to projects financing that should now cover the entire territory, but also your
contribution to ensure adequate financing for the disarmament of soldiers, andthe
preparation o f the elections. We hope that this aid will be additional to that already
pledged. Inaddition, we support the proposal for an appropriate amount of budgetaryaid
inthe next three years, that willhelp, inter alia, the authorities instrengthening the
administrative capacity - o fnot only the Central Government but also o f the provinces,
including a betterpaidcivil service. This would provide the necessary bridge while the
government i s implementingmeasures to further mobilize fiscal revenue to secure
progressively a share of fiscal revenue to GDP comparable to that o f other sub-Saharan
countries.
14.It goes without saying that the strong commitment o fthe authorities and donors i s
crucial for the successful implementation of the program and the consolidation o fpeace
inthe region. All stakeholders have animportant role to play inensuringthat the long
anticipated "peace dividend" does materialize. Any backtracking will inevitably cause
disappointment among the populationwith unforeseen but potentially destabilizing
consequences for the DRC, but also for the Great Lakes Region.




                                             116



