Report No. PID7192
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Hurricane Emergency Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       NIPE64084
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance, assisted by Central Bank
of Nicaragua
Date this PID Prepared           December 11, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 22, 1998
Project Background
On October 24, Tropical Storm Mitch was upgraded to a hurricane that quickly
developed into one of the strongest and most damaging, storms ever to hit
Central America. At its height on October 26 and 27, Hurricane Mitch
sustained winds of 180 mph and dumped heavy rains over Central America.
Although the winds diminished as the hurricane traveled inland on October 30,
the storm continued to produce torrential rains, causing catastrophic floods
and landslides. Although the effects of Hurricane Mitch were localized mostly
in Nicaragua's western and northwestern sections--and therefore not as
widespread as in neighboring Honduras--the destruction caused by the heavy
rains and the consequent mudslide caused by the collapse of the side of the
Casitas Volcano is staggering.
Preliminary estimates indicate over 2,400 deaths and about 1,000 disappeared
persons in Nicaragua. About 870,000 people (almost 20 percent of the
population) were affected, of which about 45 percent were children. About
145,700 houses were damaged, and about 32,000 completely destroyed. More than
8,000 kilometers of main and secondary roads, and about 70 bridges suffered
damages or were destroyed. Important sections of the Pan American Highway-the
main commercial route to other Central American countries - were damaged or
destroyed. Addressing these new reconstruction and rehabilitation needs will
place an additional burden on the Government as it tries to address the
country's existing infrastructure constraints. Social infrastructure was
likewise affected: about 340 schools were damaged and 280 schools are being
used as shelters. Similarly, about 90 health centers suffered damage.
Agricultural losses are significant, affecting especially bananas, soybeans,
tobacco, peanuts, and to a lesser extent basic grains, coffee, sugarcane and
fruits and vegetables.
IDA immediately provided on-the-ground support to coordinate early assistance
needs and requirements with the Government, especially the reallocation of
funds from existing operations. About US$60 million are being made available
for immediate emergency and reconstruction needs, from the following ongoing
projects: Rural Municipalities (PROTIERRA), Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit; Health Sector, Second Transport and Agriculture Technology. The
recently-approved Social Investment Fund Project is being channeled into
rehabilitation/reconstruction of community infrastructure.
The estimated lending amount is SDR 36.1 million ($50.0 million equivalent).
Project Objectives



IDA staff visited Nicaragua soon after the hurricane emergency. Together with
our Resident Mission staff in Managua, they worked closely with the Government
assessing damage, prioritize interventions, and coordinate with other external
donors. In the process, IDA has prepared its own three-part strategy to
assist Nicaragua respond to this natural disaster:
Emergency Financing, Macroeconomic Assistance and Debt Relief. The Government
has an urgent need for emergency financing of much-needed imports, while
sustaining macroeconomic stability. The proposed fast-track Hurricane
Emergency Project would meet this immediate need. At the request of several
governments, IDA has established a Central America Emergency Trust Fund
(CAETF) to which contributions can be made to support Nicaragua, and other
hurricane-affected countries cover multilateral debt service payments. As
soon as feasible, we will consider Nicaragua's eligibility for the HIPC
initiative.
Short- to Medium-Term Rehabilitation. IDA staff are working with counterpart
Government agencies and other development partners to reprogram IDA operations
and/or process supplemental financing to provide for urgent rehabilitation of
damaged social and economic infrastructure. Given the extent of the damage
and the need for quick support, IDA staff believe that reprogramming of the
existing portfolio-as opposed to designing a new, multi-sector hurricane
rehabilitation project-is the fastest and most flexible way to meet
Nicaragua's short and medium-term rehabilitation needs, given that speed is of
the essence. In addition to reprogramming existing credit amounts to finance
about $60 million of rehabilitation-related expenditures, supplemental funding
will be proposed, as needed, for ongoing projects. These figures may change
as work with Government counterparts and other donors continues and as medium-
term rehabilitation needs are better defined.
Longer-Term Reconstruction. As a result of the economic and social
devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch, as soon as conditions permit, IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy will need to be revisited to support the longer-
term reconstruction needs generated by the hurricane emergency. Strengthening
the country's institutional capacity for disaster preparedness and management
will assume even greater importance, and the emphasis on decentralization and
local partnerships, which is already a strong feature of our portfolio, will
become more important than ever in the recovery process.
The proposed Hurricane Emergency Project is part of the first phase of IDA's
strategy to assist Nicaragua in addressing the reconstruction needs generated
by Hurricane Mitch. It would assist the Government in maintaining
macroeconomic stability while helping to finance import costs associated with
rebuilding infrastructure, production levels, and emergency imports. IDA
support is being closely coordinated with other multilateral and bilateral
agencies.  Besides the assistance under this proposed emergency recovery
operation, IDA, in coordination with other multilateral agencies and bilateral
donors, is also assisting with rehabilitation through the reallocation of
resources from IDA-financed projects in the portfolio (as described above).
Project Description
The Hurricane Emergency Project will provide immediate, quick-disbursing
support to finance a positive list of imports needed for the rehabilitation
effort while supporting macroeconomic objectives. The project will, inter
-2 -



alia, provide assistance for imports of: (i) construction materials, vehicles
and fuel that are needed for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure; (ii)
seeds, fertilizers (excluding pesticides), equipment, materials, machinery and
fuel needed to reestablish agricultural production; (iii) medical supplies and
equipment needed for the hospitals, health centers, health posts and outreach
programs; (iv) school supplies and equipment for schools and educational
facilities that were partially/totally destroyed; and (v) machinery, spare
parts and equipment for commercial and industrial companies.
Project Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance in close
collaboration with the Central Bank of Nicaragua since it will largely support
import financing requirements. The credit will finance 100 percent of the
delivered cost of general imports, excluding import duties and taxes, subject
to a positive list to be agreed with the Government. Adequate quarterly
reporting and audit trails will be provided by the Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank of Nicaragua.
Project Timing
The project will be implemented over a one year period and is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1999.
Environmental Category
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in
Category C and does not require an environmental assessment.
Benefits
The import financing under the proposed credit will provide timely balance of
payments support to the Government in view of the additional import demands
generated by the effects of Hurricane Mitch. The counterpart funds generated
by the sale of foreign exchange will provide the Government with an important
source of non-inflationary finance at a time when there will be need for
additional public spending and pressure on revenues due to lower economic
growth. The balance of payments support to be provided under this credit will
be critical in maintaining macroeconomic stability while rehabilitating and
restoring productive capacity, and ensuring the adequate supply of essential
equipment, materials and commodities for the social and economic sectors. It
will complement the support for short- and medium-term rehabilitation that
will be provided through the restructuring/reprogramming of ongoing operations
in the portfolio, and assistance provided by other multilateral and bilateral
agencies.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
-3 -



components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 18, 1998.
- 4 -



