Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: '21456
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(31580)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A HURRICANE EMERGENCY PROJECT
December 5, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
official duties. Its contents ma not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Cordoba (c)
C 1 = US$ 0.08
US$ 1 = C 12.48
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAETF        Central America Emergency Trust Fund
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CG           Consultative Group
ESAF         Enhanced Structrual Adjustrnent Facility
HEP          Hurricane Emergency Project
HIPC         Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director.   Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Suzana Augusto



FOR OFFICIAL US]E ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    7
6. Sustainability                                                                        7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       9
9. Partner Comments                                                                     10
10. Additional Information                                                              11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P064084                                      Project Name: HURRICANE EMERGENCY 1
Team Leader: Suzana Campos Augusto                       | TL Unit: LCC2C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 7, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HURRICANE EMERGENCY                           L/C/TFNumber: 31580
Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: MY - Other Non-sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/24/98                                Effective: 04/22/99           04/22/99
Appraisal:  11/30/98                                 MTR:
Approval:  12/22/98                                Closing: 06/30/2000         06/01/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE & PUBLIC
CREDIT/CENTRAL BANK
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                     Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:      Ernesto May                               Guillermo Perry
Team Leader at ICR:   Suzana Augusto                           Suzana Augusto
ICR Primary Author:   Suzana Augusto
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Hurricane Mitch, which hit Central America over the period October 25-31, 1998, has been considered one
of the strongest and most damaging storms ever to hit the region. Although the damage was not as
widespread as in Honduras, Hurricane Mitch did lead to major devastation in a localized area of
Nicaragua. Mitch inflicted its greatest damage in Nicaragua mainly through constant, heavy rairns that



caused extensive flooding and landslides. The northwestern corner of the country bore the brunt of the
storm, and a side of the Casitas Volcano collapsed causing a massive mudslide that buried ten communities
and some 2000 people at its base. As a result of the hurricane, about 3000 people died in Nicaragua, and
about 950 disappeared. About 870,000 people were affected (or almost one in five Nicaraguans), of which
45 percent were children. Of the 58 poorest municipalities in Nicaragua, 40 were located in the hardest hit
departments of the country. About 8,000 km of paved and unpaved roads were washed out and about 50
bridges were destroyed-immediately after the storm about 70 percent of Nicaragua's road network was
impassable, including significant portions of the Pan American Highway, which is Nicaragua's main trunk
road and connection to neighboring countries. The hurricane caused extensive damage to water supply and
sewerage systems, two hydroelectric facilities, ten electricity transmission lines and 381 km of power
distribution lines, telecommunications infrastructure, and about 300 schools and 250 health posts. About
370,000 people lost their homes, at least temporarily. A large proportion of basic grains production was
lost, and other products such as bananas and coffee either suffered extensive damage and/or had their
market access restricted because of damage to the road network.
There was serious concern that the Government would have great difficulty in maintaining macroeconomic
stability as it struggled to meet emergency import needs and finance priority expenditures, especially since
the hurricane affected some of the most fertile areas of Nicaragua. Without quick support, the Government
would face serious balance of payments and fiscal crises, leading to runaway inflation and, possibly, social
unrest. The fast-track Hurricane Emergency Project (HEP), therefore, aimed to assist the Government
maintain macroeconomic stability and ensure a stable economic environment to begin the reconstruction
process. Its main objective was to provide quick financing for imports associated with rebuilding social
and economic infrastructure, and re-establishing production levels in Nicaragua. The HEP was a key
component of the first part of IDA's three-part strategy to assist Nicaragua respond to the effect of the
natural disaster. This strategy included:
* Emergency Financing, Macroeconomic Assistance and Debt Relief. The Government had an urgent
need for emergency financing to cover additional import requirements generated by the disaster, while
maintaining macroeconomic stability. Financing provided under the Hurricane Emergency Project
(HEP) met this need. It complemented balance of payments support that was provided (and originally
contemplated before Mitch) through the release of the second tranche of the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit upon satisfactory compliance with all conditions. In addition, IDA staff cooperated
with the IMF on a preliminary assessment of Nicaragua's macroeconomic situation following the
disaster. Finally, at the request of several governments, IDA established and managed a Central
America Emergency Trust Fund (CAETF) to which bilateral contributions were made to support
Nicaragua and other hurricane-affected countries cover multilateral debt service payments. As of
March 31, 2000, the CAETF had received US$53.3 million equivalent in bilateral contributions for
Nicaragua, and had paid out this full amount to cover Nicaragua's debt service obligations to
multilateral creditors.
*  Short- and Medium-Term Rehabilitation Given the extent of damage in Nicaragua, and the need for
quick investment support, reprogramming of IDA's portfolio represented the fastest and most flexible
way to meet Nicaragua's short-term rehabilitation needs in the immediate aftermath of Hurricane
Mitch. IDA worked closely with Government counterparts and other development partners to
reprogram operations in the portfolio and/or process supplemental financing (when available balances
were insufficient to meet urgent needs) to provide for urgent rehabilitation of damaged social and
economic infrastructure. A total of seven operations were restructured within existing credit amounts
to finance about US$63 million equivalent of rehabilitation-related expenditures. In addition,
-2 -



supplemental funding was approved for an ongoing education project in the amount of US$13.2
million.
* Longer-Term Reconstruction. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Nicaragua was diiscussed
by the Board on April 9, 1998. After the hurricane, IDA reviewed its ongoing CAS, in light of the
Government's reconstruction program, but a major reformulation of CAS priorities was not required.
Rather, as the result of the hurricane, IDA, in coordination with other donors, increased its focus on
building institutional capacity for disaster preparedness and mitigation, and other activities to support
efforts by the Government and civil society to ensure that rehabilitation and longer-term reconstruction
programs were appropriately and transparently handled.
Because this project responded to an emergency situation, it had not been contemplated in the CAS.
However, the project was extremely responsive to the emerging issues, challenges and development
priorities that Nicaragua faced in responding to the effects of the devastating hurricane. As mentioned
above, the project was but one component of an emergency assistance strategy that addressed rehabilitation
and reconstruction needs. It was, however, an essential component of the strategy, with a clear and concise
objective--assisting the Government to maintain macroeconomic stability in an environment made difficult
by the greatly increased import demands and reduced productive capacity. The simplicity of project design,
which followed recent best practice of emergency assistance operations and relied exclusively on existing
Government institutions and procedures for consolidating import and foreign exchange payment
information, was also responsive to the Government's need for timely balance of payments support and its
limited institutional capacity for dealing with the effects of a natural disaster of the magnitude of Hlurricane
Mitch.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The Hurricane Emergency Project provided immediate, quick-disbursing support to finance a positive list
of imports needed for implementing Nicaragua's Hurricane Mitch rehabilitation program while supporting
macroeconomic objectives. The project provided assistance for imports needed for its recovery program, as
follows: (i) construction materials and equipment, water, land and air transport vehicles, petroleurn, and
fuel products needed for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure; (ii) seeds, fertilizers, agricultural
equipment, materials, machinery and fuel needed to reestablish agricultural production; (iii) medical
supplies and equipment needed to replenish stocks of hospitals, health centers, health posts and oulreach
programs; (iv) school supplies and equipment for educational facilities that were damaged or destroyed;
and (v) machinery, spare parts and equipment for commercial and industrial companies. The project did
not finance used or luxury goods, or military equipment.
As mentioned in Section 3.1 above, the design of the project's single component was responsive to the
Borrower's needs for balance of payments support at a critical juncture. The positive list adopted for IDA
credit disbursements was appropriate to Nicaragua's reconstruction import requirements, and the project's
implementation arrangements (with responsibility shared between both the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit and the Central Bank of Nicaragua, as reflected in an Implementation Agreement), including
procurement and disbursement procedures, were streamlined to facilitate timely implementation in a
difficult environment. Project design also proved to be a flexible vehicle for mobilizing bilateral balance of
payments support. The Government of Italy approved a 15 billion Lira soft loan to finance imports from
- 3 -



Italian suppliers, modeled on the basis of the HEP's implementation arrangements.
IDA's overall emergency assistance program for Nicaragua incorporated the following lessons, which
guided the preparation of this project and other assistance provided in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch:
(i) successful implementation of recovery projects requires very early Bank involvement in defining a
recovery strategy; (ii) rapid preparation is essential for emergency projects to have the needed impact, and
normal Bank guidelines and procedures could cause delays in project execution, making it necessary to
design special implementation and execution arrangements; (iii) flexibility in the design of recovery projects
is necessary to permit changes as project implementation yields more information; (iv) emergency support
should pave the way for dealing with longer-term concerns about disaster preparedness and management;
and (v) emergency operations must be simple, rapidly executable, sharply focused, and not burdened with
conditionality.
Through staff of several missions in the country at the time of the hurricane, those that visited the country
shortly thereafter, and those of its Country Office, IDA began formulating its emergency assistance
strategy practically as Hurricane Mitch struck. IDA responded quickly to the Government's emergency
needs: by the end of December 1998, IDA had restructured seven ongoing operations, advanced
significantly in the preparation of a supplemental credit (approved in January 1999), and approved the
Hurricane Emergency Project (approved in less than six weeks, on December 22, 1998). Signing of the
Credit Agreement for the HEP took place on January 19, 1999. The HEP was simple, focused, and
contained only financial management conditionality to ensure the appropriate use of project funding. As
suggested by the lessons of experience, IDA's longer-term support for disaster mitigation and preparedness
is being prepared under a separate, stand-alone operation.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry.
Satisfactorv. The project's quality at entry was satisfactory. It was an integral component of IDA's
emergency assistance strategy, which itself was extremely responsive to Nicaragua's emergency and
redefined longer-term development priorities resulting from the hurricane. While adverse environmental
and social consequences were not anticipated, the project did address IDA's safeguard policies by requiring
that any imports of pesticides or herbicides financed with credit proceeds be subject to the requirements of
O.P. 4.36, Pest Management. As described above, project design was simple and focused, and hence,
implemented without creating an additional burden on a Borrower whose institutional capacity was already
overstreched in responding to a crisis situation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project achieved its single development objective: maintaining macroeconomic stability.
Nicaragua's economy had been doing quite well prior to the hurricane, with sustained improvements in
stabilization and economic growth. GDP growth for both 1998 and 1999 was projected at 6 percent, the
Government was meeting its macroeconomic targets under the ESAF agreement reached with the IMF in
March 1998, and it was advancing in the implementation of its structural reform program. The ESAF
-4 -



arrangement was considered a key element of the HIPC process, for which Nicaragua was already
considered eligible on the grounds of its low income level and extremely high external debt burden.
At the time the HEP was prepared, estimates of the damage to the economy were still being refined. Since
the damage occurred fairly late in the year, only part of its effect was expected to be reflected in the 1998
macroeconomic indicators, with the main impact expected in 1999. However, since the hurricane affected
some of Nicaragua's most productive agricultural lands and caused major damage to key transport routes,
some slowdown of economic growth due to the loss of crops and indirect damages in the form of reduced
economic activity resulting from production bottlenecks caused by damaged infrastructure was expected.
The negative indirect effects were expected to carry through into 1999, but to be partially offset by
intensified reconstruction activities, financed through additional foreign inflows from official and private
sources. The loss of domestic goods not easily replaced by imports was also expected to place upward
pressure on prices. As a result, inflation was expected to rise to 17 percent in 1998, and then fall
to 15 percent in 1999, compared with the about 9 percent a year that had been estimated before the
hurricane. As a result of higher import levels associated with disaster relief, food imports and
reconstruction needs, coupled with reduced crop exports, the current account deficit was expected to widen
to about 31.2 percent of GDP in 1998 (compared to 28.3 percent estimated prior to Mitch) and 31.9
percent of GDP in 1999 (compared to 24.0 percent estimated prior to Mitch). An estimated US$ l50
million financing gap (about 6 percent of GDP) resulting from Mitch was expected to be financed through
the reprogramming of credits (mainly IDA and IDB), disbursements of new grants and credits, emergency
balance of payments support under the HEP, a then proposed augmentation in the ESAF and further debt
relief, including disbursements under the CAETF. Initial estimates suggested that the hurricane would
result in relatively minor fiscal slippages compared to pre-hurricane projections.
Nicaragua's macroeconomic performance during 1999 was broadly in line with the PRGF (previously
ESAF) supported program. The economy recovered from the adverse impact of Hurricane Mitch with
substantial external assistance and benefited from higher than expected private capital inflows. Real GDP
in 1999 is estimated to have increased by about 6 percent. Inflation fell from around 18 percent in 1998 to
around 7 percent in 1999. The deficit of the combined public sector was 6.7 percent of GDP (against a
programmed 5.1 percent of GDP), reflecting substantially higher capital spending on infrastructure that
was partially compensated by higher than expected tax collections. A slightly higher than expected current
account deficit was financed mainly through greater than expected capital inflows. Net intemational
reserves fell somewhat short of programmed levels, reflecting in part delays in multilateral disbursements
associated with delays in implementation of structural reforms.
-5 -



As depicted in the Table below, Nicaragua's macroeconomic performance in 1999 was broadly
satisfactory.
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators, 1998-99
1998                  1999                   1999
Projected in ESAF        Preliminary
GDP Growth(%)                   4.1                    6.3                    6.0
Inflation (end-year, %)         18.5                   10.0                   7.2
Combined Public Sector
Accounts (% of GDP)
Total Revenues (current)        35.9                   33.6                   34.9
Total Expenditures              43.0                   47.2                   50.2
ofwhich: capital                12.7                   18.4                   20.6
Fiscal Deficit
before grants                -7.0                  -13.5                  -15.2
after grants                 -3.4                   -5.6                   -6.7
Current Account Balance        -29.4                  -33.9                  -35.9
(% GDP)
Gross Reserves                   1.0                   2.4                    2.2
(months of imports)
External Debt (% GDP)          280.0
4.2 Outputs by components:
See above.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
N/A
-6-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main external factor influencing the accomplishment of project objectives--that is macroeconomic
stability in an extremely adverse environment after a natural disaster of unprecedented proportions for the
country--was the large amount of external assistance pledged by Nicaragua's bilateral and multilateral
creditors. The HEP was but one component--albeit an important and extremely timely one--in a much
larger package of external assistance provided to Nicaragua in the aftermath of Mitch. Initial donor
support was pledged at an initial Consultative Group Meeting for Central America, organized by the IDB
in Washington in December 1998. At a follow-up May Stockholm CG Meeting, the donor community
committed over US$2.6 billion to Nicaragua's reconstruction over the 1999-2003 period. While nmuch of
the donor assistance has still to be translated into projects on the ground, important components such as
disbursements from the IMF and IDA (especially under this project), and donor contributions to the
CAETF which has covered most of Nicaragua's multilateral debt service over the past year, had an
important role in containing balance of payment difficulties.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's main contribution was the strong macroeconomic management, reflected in the adoption
of prudent macroeconomic policies followed in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. Nicaragua is now in the
second year of its ESAF (now PRGF) program, and the IMF mid-term review mission has reported that the
macroeconomic targets for 1999 were mostly met--except for the international reserve target, which was
not attained as several tranches from IDA and IDB adjustment credits have not yet been disbursed..
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Apart from the strong macroeconomic management described above, the main factors affecting project
implementation subject to implementing agency control were the good financial and project management.
The Implementation Agreement reflecting the sharing of implementation responsibilities between the
Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank was formalized expeditiously, the credit became effective in
almost record time, disbursement applications were prepared in a timely manner, and audit and monitoring
reports were prepared and forwarded to IDA routinely. The credit was fully disbursed within six weeks of
effectiveness (more than one year before the closing date).
5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The project aimed to assist the Government in maintaining macroeconomic stability in the,
aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. As described above, the project was successful in accomplishing this
objective. After a satisfactory performance in 1999, the challenge for the Govemment of Nicaragaa in the
near fature will be to keep its PRGF-supported program on track by containing recent higher than expected
spending related in part to the fast execution of foreign financed reconstruction projects, and maintaining
- 7 -



monetary prudence. In addition, the Government needs to continue making progress in the structural area,
especially towards the privatization of ENITEL, the telecoms company, and implementation of the new
social security legislation, which together with progress in the area of governance, would enable Nicaragua
to reach the HIPC decision point towards the end of the year 2000.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Highly Satisfactory. IDA's response to the Hurricane Emergency in general, and with the
identification-approval of this project, in particular, was of a high order. To assist the Government in
maintaining macroeconomic stability, IDA correctly identified the need for quick-disbursing balance of
payments support as a fundamental component of its emergency assistance strategy. IDA then acted very
quickly to, first, identify the most appropriate project concept based on the Bank/IDA's best practice, and
then adapt that concept to Nicaragua's particular needs and requirements. It is worth noting that by
following best practice experience within the Bank Group at the time, and by coordinating preparation
responsibilities among both staff that visited the country and their counterparts at headquarters, IDA was
able to bring the HEP (and a similar one for Honduras) to the Board of Directors in a record six weeks
from the date of the hurricane. The Bank's Executive Directors also acted very expeditiously to assist
Nicaragua, by agreeing to review the HEP loan package in only three working days, rather than the
standard 13.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Bank supervision requirements were fully met. Because the macroeconomic supervision was
provided by staff responsible for other macroeconomic tasks in Nicaragua, supervision coefficients were
quite low. The only project-specific supervision mission was for the financial management aspects of the
project--to carry out a spot check of documentation supporting disbursements made and review financial
management control procedures. The Bank's Country Office in Nicaragua played a key supporting role,
including in providing assistance with compliance of effectiveness conditions and responding to inquiries on
the disbursement process.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. IDA made--and continues to make--a notable contribution to Nicaragua's post-Mitch
reconstruction and assistance efforts. This project is but one component of that contribution, but an
important and timely one that provided an important signal to the wider donor community of IDA's strong
support, and contributed to the Government's strong and productive efforts of maintaining macroeconomic
stability.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
-8 -



Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance contributed actively to project preparation, despite the burden it
faced in coordinating greatly increased external assistance in the aftermath of Mitch. The Ministry of
Finance and the Central Bank cooperated in an exemplary fashion, defining and assigning among
themselves their respective project management responsibilities, which were reflected in the Implementation
Agreement.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Government commitment to the project and its objectives was of high order. As described
above, macroeconomic management was strong. Project implementation was good: the credit became
effective in almost record time, disbursement requests were submitted in a timely fashion, macroeconomic
monitoring and audit reports were prepared and delivered as required, and the credit disbursed ahead of
schedule.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. See para. 7.5 above.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Because the HEP was part of a larger package of emergency assistance to Nicaragua, it is relevant to
extract lessons not only related to the quick-disbursing balance of payment support provided under the
HEP, but also to IDA's emergency assistance to Nicaragua in general.
1) Very early Bank involvement is needed to develop an overall emergency assistance strategy that
proposes different modalities of support that can be channeled through appropriate vehicles. In this sense,
amendment of ongoing operations, and preparation of supplemental ones (where undisbursed balances are
insufficient to meet emergency needs in areas of ongoing assistance), are often the quickest ways to provide
investment support. This appears to be especially relevant for disasters of the magnitude of Hurricane
Mitch. Once the emergency assistance strategy is formulated, and the vehicles are identified, it is best to
process each of these separately at their respective paces (instead of processing everything together in one
large assistance package).
2) As part of the process of defining an emergency assistance strategy, the Bank should quickly assess the
country's macroeconomic situation, risks and requirements, and identify any need for quick disbursing
support (among other vehicles for balance of payments assistance, such as the CAETF). This is best
provided through separate quick-disbursing balance of payments support operations, such as the HEP. The
HEP framework can also be good vehicle for mobilizing bilateral assistance. Complementary assistance,
such as IDA provided in managing the CAETF, may also be critical to ensure that highly indebted
countries faced with massive emergency financing requirements can remain current in their debt service
obligations to multilateral creditors. Combined with other external assistance, and strong macroeconomic
management by the Government, critically needed balance of payments support provided in a tirrely
manner can have a major impact on macroeconomic stability.
3) Longer-term concerns about disaster management preparedness and mitigation need to be addressed, but
it is not effective to combine this with emergency support objectives They are best addressed either as
-9-



components or as separate stand alone operations, as this provides the Government and the Bank team
more opportunity to devote the necessary attention to the technical issues (which may not be possible to do
properly in the rush to provide emergency macroeconomic support).
4) The Bank's timely response in preparing emergency operations is critical. In this sense, the Bank should
continue to respond flexibly (as it did in processing the HEP) to reducing periods for distribution of key
documents and for adherence to routine, internal procedures. The Bank should aim to reflect recent
experience with the processing of several emergency operations in revised guidelines that reflect these
streamlined procedures, especially since staff need guidance quickly when faced with emergencies.
5) The existence of experienced operational staff in a Bank field office is fundamental for assisting
Governments deal initially with early damage assessment, and definition of assistance priorities, financing
options, and implementation arrangements.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
Executive Summary (translated from Spanish)
Hurricane Emergency Project
The Government of Nicaragua approached the authorities of the International Development Association
(IDA), with the purpose of requesting financial assistance for meeting the need for additional imports of
goods and services resulting from the damage caused by hurricane Mitch which destroyed Central America
from October 25 to November 1, 1998, while at the same time maintaining macroeconomic stability in the
country, within the framework of the Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF).
As a result of the hurricane, the Government of Nicaragua had to carry out the reconstruction of the
economic and social infrastructure, since the damages were severe in the areas of health, education, roads,
energy, water supply, housing and production, with total damages estimated at US$1,500 million.
Furthermore, about 370,000 persons were left homeless, approximately 3,000 persons died and 950
disappeared, with the result of an increase number of orphans.
As part of the assistance received from IDA, the Board of Directors approved on December 22, 1998 a
credit of SDR 36.1 million, which was later signed on January 19, 1999. For its part, the Government of
Nicaragua with the invaluable assistance from IDA received the first disbursement on April 23, 1999 and
the last on June 1 of the same year, for a total disbursement of US$49.8 million during this period.
The procedures for withdrawing proceeds from the credit consisted of the presentation of a list of eligible
goods and services imported, prepared by the General Directorate of Customs in the Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit (MHCP), through the Central Bank of Nicaragua, which was the institution that
presented the disbursement applications and received funds in the name of MHCP to finance the project. In
compliance with the conditions of the Credit Agreement, the independent auditors
PriceWaterhouseCoopers, on October 15, 1999 presented the audit report, in which they confirmed that the
Government of Nicaragua had complied with all of the important covenants established in the Credit
Agreement.
- 10 -



As a result of the project's objectives, the Government of Nicaragua has been able to attain the monitoring
indicators [at the established levels] satisfactorily, achieving a GDP growth rate of 6.0% in 1999, even
though the level of exports declined from $573.2 million in 1998 to $543.9 million [in 1999].
It is important to recognize the experience in the achievements of this project, since it was prepared,
approved, signed and executed in a short period of time and in an agile manner, counting on an efficient
coordination among the several institutions of the Government of Nicaragua and IDA. In this sense, we
suggest capitalizing on this experience so that it may be applied to other credits, for which the Government
of Nicaragua acknowledges IDA's extraordinary cooperation, reflected in its exceptional financial support.
Managua, September 2000
(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a
10. Additional Information
- 11 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
_                 L    ~~~~~Protqs,f      a  I hi                 - ActuJa$,st                     l
(i) the balance of payments current account  (i) balance of payment current account deficit (i) balance of payments current account
deficit expected not to exceed 32.0 percent  expected to reach 34.7 percent of GDP in   deficit estimated at 35.9 percent of GDP in
of GDP in 1999; and                     1999; and                               1999; and
(ii) the combined public sector overall deficit (ii) the combined public sector overall deficit (ii) the combined public sector overall deficit
expected not to exceed 11.0 percent of GDP  projected at 9.8 percent in 1999.   estimated at 15.2 percent of GDP in 1999.
in 1999.
Output Indicators:
-||$ x                     ~~~~~~~~Projted in IW  PS1t                         E.  ra
End of project
- 12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs and Financing (Appraisal Estimate and Actual)
As defined at appraisal, the project financed 100 percent of the delivered cost of eligible imports on the
positive list, excluding import duties and taxes. Retroactive financing for up to 20 percent of the credit
amount was provided for payments made for expenditures after October 25 but before the date of credit
signing. Disbursements totaled US$48,845,093.81 equivalent, equivalent to the credit amount of S:DR
36.1 million (US$50.0 million equivalent at appraisal).
The positive list included:
* Fertilizer
* Seeds
* Agriculture equipment and inputs
* Cement, pipes, and other construction materials and supplies
* Water, land and air transport vehicles
* School supplies and equipment
* Medical supplies and equipment
*  Petroleum, fuel products and lubricants
* Construction equipment, industrial machinery, equipment, spare parts and raw materials
Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate and Actual)
Because of the quick-disbursing, emergency nature of the credit, procurement procedures were streamlined.
As defined at appraisal, the credit financed only imports procured in accordance with the procedures
presented in the table below.
PROCUREMENT1CATEGORY                        PROCUREMENT METHOD
Public Sector Procurement
Commodities                                 Through established intemational commodity
markets, or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Section 2.65 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits
Goods, valued at or more than $1 million    Simplified intemational competitive bidding
procedures under Sections 2.63 and 2.64 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits
Goods, for contracts awarded between October 25, In accordance with intemational shopping
1998 and through June 30, 1999, valued at less than procedures under Sections 3.5 and 3.6 of Guidelines
$1 million                                  for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits
Private Sector Procurement
Commodities                                 Through established international commodity
markets, or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Section 2.65 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits
- 13 -



Goods for contracts valued at or more than $3  Simplified international competitive bidding
rnillion                                    procedures under Sections 2.63 and 2.64 of
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits
Goods for contracts valued at less than $3 million   Based on established commercial practices
All procurement of imports by the private sector of $3 million or above, or by the public sector under
contracts of $1 million and above and awarded after June 30, 1999 were to be subject to IDA's prior
review. In reality, none of the imports submitted by the Borrower for reimbursement by IDA were subject
to prior review.
- 14 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 15 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No, of Persons and Spcialpty            Performnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Impole ntatiaon    Development
Month/Year    CountL     Speialty                        Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
N/A-See below
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1998                I   Task Manager
November 1998                1   Procurement Specialist
November 1998                1   Disbursement officer
November 1998                1   Financial Mgt. Specialist
November 1998                1   Operations Analyst
Supervision
November 1999                 1  Financial Mgt. Specialist           S                 S
ICR
In view of the emergency nature of IDA assistance, the project was prepared on an extremely compressed
processing schedule. Following a Concept Review Meeting at HQ on November 20, 1998 (based on a
draft Project Information Document), a five person Identification/Preappraisal/Technical Appraisal visited
Nicaragua for two days in late November, while a Task Manager and others coordinated processing at
Headquarters. Input on the macroeconomic impact of the hurricane, and its effect on the Government's
macroeconomic program was provided by IDA staff in the Country Office that were assisting the
Government in the preparation of a preliminary reassessment of the macroeconomic situation, in parallel
with project preparation efforts. Similarly, macroeconomic supervision was carried out in the course of
country macroeconomic work.
- 16 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              uS$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                2.0                         6.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                     3.2                         8.9
Supervision                               3.1                         9.7
ICR                                       0.8                         3.7
Total                                     9.1                        28.4
The above staffweek and US$ inputs should be seen as indicative only since they may not accurately reflect
the full inputs for preparation and supervision of this project. This project was processed in parallel with a
similar Hurricane Emergency Project for Honduras, and the same Task Team was responsible for
preparing, and later supervising, both operations. Considerable work on macroeconomic and financial
sector issues was also taking place in parallel under other task codes. Therefore, the allocation of inputs
among both of these projects is not necessarily precise. Furthermore, the above inputs do not necessarily
coincide with the data in the FACT system since several staff carrying out hunicane emergency-related
tasks shortly after the emergency charged time--inadvertently--to this project. On the other hand, as
mentioned above, macroeconomic supervision was carried out in the course of country macroeconomic
work and is, therefore, not reflected in the above staffweek and US$ inputs.
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
FSector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Physical                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
Z Financial                             OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
F Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Other (Please specify)          OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
I Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
• Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
• Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-18 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS OS  Ou  OHU
'I Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
2 Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performnance                           Rating
f Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
3 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 0 HS O S  0  U  0 HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
-19-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 20 -



