Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3158-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Hurricane Emergency Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3158-NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1999, between Republic of Nicaragua 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of 
the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made:  (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Central Bank” means Banco Central de Nicaragua, the 
Borrower’s Central Bank;
(b)
“Hurricane Mitch” means the hurricane which hit Central 
America with heavy rains from October 25 to November 1, 1998;
(c)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement referred to 
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
from the Borrower to the Association of even date herewith;
(e)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public 
Credit; and
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
Page  3
thirty-six million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR36,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1, 
2009 and ending September 1, 2038.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on September 1, 2018 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Page  4
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The President of the Central Bank or any person he or 
she may designate in writing is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to 
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with the assistance of the 
Central Bank, under the provisions of the Implementation Agreement, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial 
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a)  The Borrower shall, through MOF, enter into an 
agreement with the Central Bank, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association, which shall include the respective 
obligations of the Borrower, its Customs Office, and the Central Bank in 
Page  5
the implementation of the Project (the Implementation Agreement).
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the Implementation Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Implementation Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association on or about March 31, June 
30, September 30 and December 31 each year, commencing March 31, 1999 a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date.
Section 3.05 For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, or cause the Central Bank to, 
maintain a financial management system including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Central Bank to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
quarter of each calendar year of Project implementation audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
Page  6
in any case not later 
than one month after the 
end of each such quarter: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such 
quarter as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements, 
records and accounts 
and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall or shall cause the Central Bank to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the quarter in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account 
was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the quarterly audit 
referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such quarter, together 
with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
Central Bank shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Implementation Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and the Central Bank; and
Page  7
(b)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement have been retained.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, 
namely, that the Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Central 
Bank in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date April 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Telex:
2410
With copy to:
Gerencia Internacional
Banco Central
P.O. Box 2252
Managua
Nicaragua
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Page  8
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to such Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Eligible imports
  36,100,000
100% of foreign
required for the Project
expenditures 
as specified in Schedule
4 to this Agreement
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “foreign expenditures” 
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR7,220,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 25, 1998.
(b)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less 
than $20,000 equivalent;
(c)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance or which the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another credit;
(d)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 
SDR18,050,000 for any category of eligible imports specified in Schedule 
4 without prior approval by the Association; and
Page  9
(e)
expenditures for used, luxury and military goods.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts for goods in respect of which prior review is not required 
pursuant to Schedule 3, Part D.1, of this Agreement, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to maintain 
macroeconomic stability through the financing of import costs associated 
with rebuilding social and economic infrastructure and reestablishing 
production levels in response to the damage caused by Hurricane Mitch.
The Project consists of the financing of emergency imports as 
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.  Given the nature of the Credit, paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the 
Guidelines shall specifically apply.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized 
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive 
procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the 
Page  10
provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines.
2.
Goods imported by the public sector estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract and awarded before June 30, 1999, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector 
estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 per contract may be procured in 
accordance with established commercial practices satisfactory to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods (other than those procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 hereof): (a) procured by 
the public sector and estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more;  (b) procured by the public sector after June 30, 1999 irrespective 
of contract value; and (c) procured by the private sector and estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 1 
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
List of Eligible Imports to be Financed Under the Credit
1.
Fertilizer
2.
Seeds
3.
Agriculture equipment and inputs
4.
Cement, pipes and other construction materials and supplies
5.
Water, land and air transport vehicles
6.
Medical supplies and equipment
7.
School supplies and equipment
8.
Construction equipment, industrial machinery, spare parts and raw 
materials
9.
Petroleum, fuel products and lubricants
SCHEDULE 5
Page  11
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category” means the Category set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$12,500,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Category, and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Page  12
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) 
(ii) any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  13
