R ESTRI CTED
,.   5          U    nK             Report No. TO-506c
TO BE RET URNED TO REPORTS DESK,
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliathd organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ENGINEERING LOAN
FOR
BOKE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
March 14, 1966
Projects Department



CTURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1           =    GFs 247
GFs 1           -    US $0. 004
GFs 1 million   =    US $4, 049



ENGINEERING LOAN FOR
BOKE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJEC.2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.   BACKGROUND                                    1
The Boke Mining Project                     1
Proposed Production of Bauxite              2
Proposed Transportation Infrastructure      3
Engineering Considerations                  4
Economic and Financial                      4
'Considerations
II.   THE NEED FOR AN ENGINEERING LOAN              5
III.   THE ENGINEERING PROJECT                       6
Services to be Provided by TRACTIONEL        7
Services to be Provided by the
Engineering Advisors to the Office        8
IV.   RECOMMENDATIONS                               8
TABLE 1: Estimates of Engineering Cost
Map:      Guinea



ENGINEERINTG LOAN FOR BOKE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
I. BACKGROUND
1.        The Government of the Republic of Guinea has requested Bank
financial assistance for a project in the Boke region, involving the con-
struction of a new railroad, a port, and a townsite, which together constitute
the transportation infrastructure for a proposed bauxite mining operation. A
Bank mission composed of Messrs. Brechot and Engelmarn visited Guinea in April,
1965.   It is proposed at this stage to help finance field surveys and detailed
engineering for the infrastructure project through an engineering loan.
The Bok MnnPrjc
2.        The bauxite deposits in the Boke region of Guinea are known to be
among the most abundant reserves of high grade bauxite in the world.   The
concession held by the Campagnie des Bauxites de Guinee (hereinafter called
CBG) consists of 114 specific permits, each covering an area of 5 square
kilometers.   Available data on the deposits were reviewed on behalf of the
Bank by a mining geologist, who concluded that the first permit area to be
exploited, at Sangaredi, covers "at least a quarter of a billion natural
metric tons of bauxite with a dry available alumina content of more than 57%."
The geologist concluded that the bauxite meets U.S. Government's specifi-
cations for stockpile metallurgical bauxite and that a considerable amount
of the ore is of a grade suitable as raw material for premium calcine. The
deposits at Sangaredi are located approximately 130 kilometers east of the
coastal village of Dougoufissa, where transshipment of the ore from rail to
ocean carrier is contemplated.
3.        Between 1957 and 1961 a previous concessionaire, Compagnie des
Bauxites du Midi, a French company wholly owned by Aluminium Limited (Alcan)
undertook a project for large scale mining of bauxite and the production of
alumina.   By 1961, it had constructed a small pier at Dougoufissa and com-
pleted 55 km. of railroad bed and structures.   In connection with thiL pro-
ject, Alcan set up a consortium with other aluminum companies.   In 1961,
the Government of Guinea terminated Compagnie des Bauxites du Midi's con-
cession alleging failure by that Company to meet its obligations under the
concession and took over its assets in Guinea.   No construction work has
been done since 1961.   In spring 1965, Bauxite du Midi filed a claim for
compensation but the Bank has been informed that further action on the claim
has been suspended in view of negotiations between Alcan and Harvey Al7uminum
Incorporated (hereafter called Harvey) on purchase of bauxite from Boke and
settlement of claims arising from termination of the concession.
4.        In 1963, the Government of Guinea entered into a long-term
convention with Halco (Mining) Inc. (hereinafter called HALCO), a sub-
sidiary of Harvey, with respect to the exploitation of the Boke deposits.
Under the agreement, the parties undertook to create a mixed corporation,
CBG, in which the Government owns 49% of the shares and HiALCO 51%; on the
board of directors of the corporation, each party is represented by five



-2-
directors, the Government designating one of its directors as chairman.
The president and chief executive officer of CBG is designated by HALCO:
he is not a member of the board, but may attend meetings and cast the
deciding vote in case of a tie. Under the agreement, HALCO is entitled
to dividends while the Government of Guinea will receive tax payments of
65% on the profits of CBG, but in view of the composition of the board,
decisions bearing upon the availability of profits and distribution of
dividends will to a large extent be controlled by HALCO. A particular
feature of the agreement is that CBG will construct the mining facilities
whereas the Government of Guinea will provide the infrastructure consisting
of a railroad between Dougoufissa and the mine, a townsite at Dougoufisoa,
and port facilities for ocean carriers.
5.        Harvev is one of six producers of primary aluminum in the United
States. It accounts for 3 to 4 percent of the J.S. aluminum market and
operates a reduction plant (85,000 tons per year) and two extrusion and
forging plants (75,000 tons per year). An alumina plant on the island
of St. Croix, W.I. (500,000 tons per year) and a rolling mill (60,000 tons
per year) are under construction and the company's investment program
includes a second reduction plant (100,000 tons per year) and participa-
tions in joint ventures in Norway for aluminum production and in Guinea
for bauxite mining.
6.        Harvey's total capitalization on September 30, 1964 was $145
million and its equity $84 million. HALCO's investment in CBG's shares
in an amount of $1,020,000 and additional contributions up to $1,480,000
have been guaranteed against certain risks (including incorvertibility,
expropriation and war) by U.S. A.I.D. which has also agreed to guarantee
further investments by HALCO in CBG to finance the construction of the
mining facilities, subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions regarding
t-he terms and conditions of the financing of both the mining facilities
and the infrastructure, adequato volume of sales and price of bauxite, and
adequate profitability for Guinea.
Proposed Production of Bauxite
7.        The total volume of bauxite to be produced by CBG during the
initial years of operation has not yet been determined. Harvey proposes
to buy one million tons of bauxite per year for its own use. Negotiations
are in progress with other North American and European companies for the
purpose of selling additional quantities of bauxite, but no firm commit-
ments for such sales have as yet been obtained.
8.        It is proposed to ship most of the mined bauxite in its natural
state, but up to 11% of the ore will be calcined at the storage facilities
proposed to be constructed by CBG, near the terminal at Dougoufissa.
The bauxite in the natural state and the calcined bauxite would be handled
at the same port loading facilities.   Local production of alumina and



I- 3.-
refining facilities for production of inetallic aluminum are not contem-
plated in connection with the present Boke mining project, but the
possibility of such developments may be explored in the future.
Pr-posed Transportation Infrastructure
9.        The facilities to be provided by the Government of Guinea
under the present concession agreement with CBG will comprise the
following:
(a) a single track, standard gauge railroad line, approximately
137 km. long, from the proposed bauxite mine at Sangaredi to
a port to at Dougoufisoa;
(b) a port at Dougoufissa consisting of an ore pier with ship-
loading equipment having a capacity of 2 000 tols of bauxite
per hour, and ancillary port facilities;
(c) an access channel, approximately 18 km. long, to be dredged
in the Rio Nunez, and a turning basin at the site of the ore
pier; and
(d)  a townsite with housing,roadways and ancillary facilities for
an estimated population of approximately 1,600 persons, and
with comnunity facilities and connecting services (water, power
and sewerage) designed for a total population of approximately
4,000 persons.
10.       The capacity of the proposed infrastructure will be five million
tons of bauxite per year, with provisions for future expansion if greater
volumes are produced by the mining operation, It is contemplated that
the ore trains would be operated by CBG, who unuld supply, own, and
maintain all rolling stock and locomotives for the bauxite movement;
the Government of Guinea would make the infrastructure available to CBG
and would be compensated for the cost of construction by revellues from CBG.
11.       In addition to the benefits to be derived from the mining
operations, the Government of Guinea also attaches great importance to
the potential developmental effect of the railroad on the Boke region.
*            T'Thile the prospective volume of agricultural products and passengers to
be carried on the railroad is not yet known, such traffic would be moved
with rolling stock and locomotives used for construction and some
additional coaches which are proposed to be provided as a part of the
infrastructure project.
12.       The construction cost of the railroad, port, and townsite is
at present estimated at about US$50 million, including contingencies of
15% and allowances for price escalation and interest during construction.
Of this total, approximately US$40 million would be in foreign exchange
and approximately US$10 million equivalent in local currency. As indicated
below, however, this cost estimate is still very rough, and one of the main



-4-
purposes of the Engineering Loan is to remove some of the existing un-
certainties and tiaereby arrive at more reliable estimates.
13.       Administrative arrangements for construction, maintenance, and
operation of the proposed railroad, port and townsite are still being worked
out. In preliminary discussions with the Government of Guinea and HALCO, the
Bank has suggested consideration of an arrangement whereby CEG would con-
struct and maintain the transportation infrastructure for and on behalf of
the Government of Guinea, but the Government has expressed its interest in
exploring alternative arrangements for construction, before final decisions
are reached on administration.
Engineering Considerations
14.       Preliminary engineering studies for the infrastructure project
have been made in 1964 and 1965 for CBG by the consulting firm Societe de
Traction et d'Electricite (TRACTIONEL) of Brussels, Belgium.   Except for
visual inspection of the site and review of available engineering data, no
field surveys have been made by TRACTIOTEL.   The preliminiary engineering
studies completed by TRACTIONEL to date are considered inadequate to serve
as a basis for estimating construction cost. Additional data are required
on the following:
(a) topography of terrain and foundation conditions for the
82 kilometers of railroad route on which construction has
not yet started;
(b) hydraulic and sub-surface conditions in the estuary of
the Rio Nunez, where an 18-kilometer access channel is
to be dredged; and
(c) foundation conditions at the site of the proposed baux-
ite loading docks and at the townsite.
15.       The uncertainties resulting from inadequate field information
on the above items are of such a nature that it would not be possible to
cover them by a reasonable percentage of contingencies on preliminary
estimates of construction cost; for instance, frcm available data it is
impossible to determine the type of material to be dredged in the access
channel, the quantities of earthwork to be moved for the railroad, or the
foundation conditions at the railroad bridges, the ore pier, and the
townsite.
Sconomiio and Financial Considerations
16.       A preliminary analysis of the future mining and infrastructure
project, involving an investment of about $83-million for the bauxite
mining facilities and the infrastructure combined (including the invest-
ment previously made in the existing 55 km. of railroad), indicates that
the operation would yield an economic return in the order of 13% at a
level of production of 2.5 to 3.0 million tons of bauxite per year.



17.       Other potential benefits from the project as a whole to the
Republic of Guinea cannot be quantified at this time; they include the
possible development of agriculture in the Boke region and any build-up
of general commerce and of service industries that might be induced by
the mining project.
18.       Funds for uhe local currency component of the infrastructure
construction cost are expected to be supplied to the Government of Guinea
by U.S. A.I.D. and would be relent by the Government to the proposed
Government Authority for the project on terms identical to Bank loan terms
for the foreign currency component.
II. THE NEED FOR AN ENGINEERING LOAN
19.       The information presently available to the Bank on the Boke
mining operation indicates the probability of a project suitable for
Bank financing, consisting of the construction of the proposed railroad,
port and townsite. However, before a loan to finance the construction
of this project can actually be made, numerous agreements will have to
be concluded among various parties, as was the case in other loans
made by the Bank involving large mining or industrial complexes, to give
adequate assurances on financial and administrative matters such as the
construction and operation of the mining facilities and the infrastructure,
volume of sale and price of bauxite, reasonable return on the investment,
profitability for Guinea, arrangements to secure the Bank loan, and other
related matters.
20.       Before the Bank is in a position to make a final study of the
construction project and before negotiations for a construction loan may
be started, it will be necessary to have:
(a) firm estimates of coristruction costs; and
(b) additional information on the sources of
financing of the mining project and the
probable volume of bauxite sales.
21.       It is estimated that field surveys necessary to provide accep-
table estimates of construction cost would require eight to nine months
(but wave and current observations would be continued, to obtain complete
records for at least one year).   Detailed engineering work on final designs
and contract documents for construction could be completed within the same
eight to nine months' period.
22.       Harvey is holding extensive discussions with other aluminum
producers in the United States, Canada and Europe, to obtain firm con-
tracts for additional sales of bauxite.   In view of the attractiveness
of the Guinea deposits, there is a likelihood that additional sales
ranging in total amount up to l,500,000 or 2,000,000 tons could be negotiated.



-6-
However, these negotiations are proceeding slowly, since they also con-
cern (a) possible participation by various firms in the Boke operation.
(b) claims relating to the previous concession, and (c) uncertainties
about the time when the project will. go forward, as governed by inter-
national financing of the transportation infrastructure.   In this sit-
uation, the Bankts willingness to finance the detailed engineering, which
would set the stage for carrying out the transportation investment and
clarify the matter ot transportation costs, could act as a catalyst in
obtaining satisfactory arrangements for the exploitation of the bauxite
deposits.   It is recognized that to grant an engineering loan in the
absence of firm commitments entails a certain amount of risk, but in view
of the importance of the project, it is recommended that the Bank accept
this calculated risk.
23.       It would be difficult for the Government of Guinea to obtain
funds for financing the foreign exchange cost of the field surveys and
final engineering from its own resources at this time.
24.       In summary, the Engineering Loan would enable the Government
of Guinea to proceed with the project in the most expeditious manner
and would permit advancement of the project to a point where appraisal
of a loan for construction of the infrastructure can be made on a sound
basis.
III. THE ENGINEERING PROJECT
25.       The engineering project for the railroad, port and townsite
will cover all work required prior to the issuance of tender documents
for the construction work, including field surveys, final engineering
design, preparation of contract documents and prequalification of
contractors.
26.       The Government of Guinea has established a new agency, the Office
d'Amenagement de Boke (hereinafter called the Office) to carry out the
engineering project on behalf of the Government.   The Office, which is
attached to the Ministry of Economic Development, will be responsible for
general administration of the project and will retain the services of
consulting firms, as indicated in paragraph 27, to do the engineering
work under contracts acceptable to the Bank.
27.       In view of the work done by TRACTIONEL in preliminary studies
V            for this project, it has been agreed that this firm will continue with
the field surveys and detailed engineering required to complete the pro-
ject design. To assist the Office in administering the technical aspects
of the project, and in reviewi.ng the work done by TRACTIONEL, it has been
agreed that another consulting firm will be retained as engineering
advisors to the Office. Selection of this firm has not yet been made,
but will be on a basis acceptable to the Bank.



-7-
28.       Arrangements have been made with the Government of Guinea to
ensure that (a) the Office will be adeauately organized and staffed to
fulfill its functions efficiently, (b) the retention of the engineering
advisors to the Office will coincide with the start of the main field
work by TRACTIONEL, (c) the Office and CBG will cooperate to ensure that
the work done by TRACTIONEL satisfies the requirements of the mining
operation, and (d) the Government will make available to the Office all
funds required by it to carry out the project, and for this purpose will
transfer to it the proceeds of the Engineering Loan.   The foreign ex-
change costs of the consulting services for the project would be met by
the Engineering Loan and the local currency cost by the Government, which
is negotiating a loan with U.S.A.I.D. for this purpose.
29.       The estimated costs of the engineering work for this project
are $1.92 million, of which $1.70 million would be in foreign exchange.
These estimates are based on preliminary quotations by TRACTIONEL,
which appear reasonable. A detailed breakdown is given in Table 1.
Services to be Provided by TRACTIONEL
3Q.       The engineering services to be performed by TRACTIONEL would
include the following:
(1)  Field surveys for the railroad, port, and townsite, comprising -
(a) detailed inspection of all existing construction;
(b) topographic surveys and test borings at bridge
locations for approximately 82 kilometers of rail-
road line from Km. 55 to the proposed mine at
Sangaredi;
(c) soundings and measurement of currents and wave
action in the river estuary;
(d) observation of tidal variations;
(e) studies of siltation and of littoral drift; and
(f) sub-surface investigations in the areas of the
proposed access channel, ore loading pier and town-
site.
(2) Final engineering design for the tctal project and prepara-
tion of contract documents, specifications, and construction
drawings for -the railroad, port and townsite.
(3)  Preparation of a final engineer's estimate of construction
costs and of a detailed time schedule for the construction.
(4) Prequalification of contractors.



-8-
31.       Under the proposed contract for the above services, TRACTIONEI
would also provide equipment Tequired by its own staff and by the eng-
irieering advisors to the Office during the field surveys in the Boke
region.   This equipment would include vehicles, trailers for residential
purposes, office trailers, and teclmical instruments.   It has been agreed
that the Office will safeguard and maintain this equipment after comple-
tion of the engineering project and keep it available for possible future
use by the consultants to be engaged to supervise the construction of the
infrastructure,
Services to be Provided by the jn eering Advisors to the Office
32.       The services to be provided by the engineering advisors to the
Office would consist of inspection and review of the work by TRACTIONEL
outlined in paragraph 31 above and assistance to the Office in the technical
administration of the project.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
33.       It is recommended that the Bank make an Engineering Loan of
$1.70 million to the Republic of Guiinea, to finance the foreign exchange
cost of the field surveys and detailed engineering for the transportation
infrastructure of the Boke project.   Suggested terms for repayment are
ten years, including a three year per&'od of giace.
34.       Assurances have been obtained from the Government of Guinea
that it will:
(1)  enter into an agreement with the Office satisfactory
to the Bank,, setting forth the terms and conditions
under which the Office will carry o-t the project
and providing for the transfer of the proceeds of the
Loan to the Office (para. 28); and
(2)  engage the services of two consulting Lirms, through
the Office, under conditions acceptable to the Bank
(paras. 26, 27 & 28); and
(3)  provide the local currency for the engineering project
as and when required (para. 29).
March 14, 1966



TABLE I
ESTIMATES OF ENGINEERING COST
US Dol,lars
(Thousands)
Foreign   Local     Total
Exchange Currencp
1. Cost of Engineering Services by
TRACTIONEL:
(a) Field Survey and Investigations .... 1,000       180     1,180
(b) Final Design, Preparation of
Contract Documents and Prequali-
fication of Contractors .40* hlO                  -        410
Subtotal:             1,41      180     1,590
2. Cost of Engineering Services by Eng-
ineering Advisors to the Office:
(a) Supervision of Fieldwork
(20 man-months) ....................    100      20       120
(b) Review of Final Design and Contract
Documents (4 man-months)                 15       -        15
(c) Review of Engineer's Estimate and
Prequalification Process .........       15       -        15
Subtotal:               130      20       150
Contingencies:               160      20       180
Total:             1,700     220     1,920



S E N E G                                   A      L
*Younkounkouno.)
PORTUGUESE                      U E  S E  ? --
G U I N E A      -Moi,                                                        ,',r                                             .I
Q o~GAOUAL-
T'u                                              SIGUIRI
0
.                                        O                                 ODinguiroye                                       .5
Songaredi                    LABE
PITA,
<~ BOKE elimele°DABOLA J
<Grt -nt ougoufissa                              0DL8
*FRIA
. a   BOFA  ve       M   OU                           {KANKAN                                                          .-
. . <t . .. - *Faronob
CONAKRY                           * FOREC
-     (/                 S IE R RA         LE O NE            *i)
en                                                  KlSSIDOUGOU,              1<4rciucineg                     -
Sent,/
rot GUEKEDOUO                             0BEYLA                ;
REPUB LIC      OF   GUINEA                                          -                  ED                  0MACENTA                ^0
BOKE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                           t')                                       (       A
Proposed railroad for                                                      ,
Boke Mining Pro j ect                                                                                                          (
I -It-+-I-I 4 Existing railroad                                                      L I B E R    I A               NZEREKORE          j       -
=        Navigable rivers                                     R                                                        0                     O
GUINEA
0         50        100       t50
KILOMETERS
OCTOBER 1965                                                                                                                                       IBRD-1633



