Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1589
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT (LOANS Si-GUI, 557-GUI, & 766-GUI)
May 11, 1977
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT (LOANS Sl-GUI, 557-GUI & 766-GUI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEETS                        i - iii
HIGHLIGHTS
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.  Background                                                    1
II.  Project Performance                                           3
III.  Main Issues                                                   5
IV.  Conclusions                                                   8
ATTACHMENT: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.  Project Data                                                  A.1
2.  Summary                                                       A.3
3. Background of Project                                          A.4
4.  Physical Execution of the Project                             A.5
5.  Operating Forecasts and Results                               A.10
6.  Organization and Performance of the Borrower                  A.12
7.  Economic Impact                                               A.13
8.  Criticisms by Borrower                                        A.15
9.  Complaints of the Consulting Engineer                         A.20
10.  Mission Conclusions                                           A.21
APPENDICES
1. Rate of Return Calculations
2. Secondary Effects and Economic Indicators
MAP
Guinea Boke Bauxite Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT (LOANS Sl-GUI, 557-GUI & 766-GUI)
PREFACE
This report is an audit of performance under the Boke'Bauxite
Project, for which Loans Sl-GUI of March 30, 1966 in the amount of US$1.7
million, 557-GUI of September 18, 1968 in the amount of US$64.5 million
and 766-GUI of June 25, 1971 in the amount of US$9.0 million were closed,
fully disbursed, on May 31, 1967, December 31, 1972 and March 31, 1974,
respectively. UNDP Grant GUI/72/006 of US$49,000 for technical assistance
for the management of railway, port and townsite,and for which the Bank
is executing agency,is still being disbursed. This report is based on a
review of the attached Project Completion Report (PCR)P/ of March 1976
issued by the Western Africa Regional Office, reviews of the project files
and transcript of the Executive Directors' meeting which considered the
project, and discussions with Bank staff members.
A joint OED/Regional staff mission visited Guinea in October 1975
in connection with the preparation of the PCR and the performance audit
memorandum. OED staff contributed to the preparation of the section of
the PCR dealing with the economic impact of the project and commented on
earlier PCR drafts. These comments are reflected in the attached PCR,
with whose main findings OED is in agreement. The audit memorandum ex-
pands on the question of the split of economic benefits of the project,
the long-run returns for Guinea and the institutional development aspects.
The valuable assistance provided by officials of the Guinea
Government in the preparation of this report is gratefully acknowledged.
1/ Annexes on the Port, Railway Component, Mine and Factory, and OFAB
Management and Organization are not attached and are available in OED
on request.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
GUINEA BOKE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (LOAN Sl-GUI)
Amounts (in US$ mln)
Original         Disbursed         Cancelled         Repaid      Outstanding
Loan    Sl-GUI          1.7             1.7               -           Consolidated in Loan 557-GUI
Project Data
Oria                                                       Actual or
P ana_                   Revisions                        Est.  Actual
Conception in Bank          1965                   during 1965                         10/ 65
Board Approval            1/ 18 /66                3/ 7/ 66                           3/ 29 /66
Loan/Credit Agreement         -,                                                      3/ 30/ 66
Effectiveness     6 / 30 / 66                                                6/ 27/ 66
Physical Completion        5/ 67                                                       11/ 67
/ of orig>inal project
actually completed         80%                                                        100.
Loan/Credit Closing           5 /67                                                     5/67
Total Costs (mln)       US$ 1.7                                                     us$ 1.7
Econ. Rate of Return   not calculated                                               not calculated
Mission Data
Month,        No. of        No. of                        Olate of
Year          Weeks        Persons       Manweeks         Report
Identification              4/65            1             5             5           5/13 & 5/25/65
Preparation
Preappraisal
Appraisal                   8/65            1             3             3             8/11/65
Subtotal                             2                            8
Follow-on Proiect
Loan    557-GUI of US$    64.5   mln, signed in 9/68       for   Boke Bauxite      _     Project.
Date of Conception in Bank is date Bank first recorded project was being considered for financing
and began to follo'wup that decision in a serious continuous way (Project Negotiations or
Country General Files).   Actual Loan/Credit Closing Date is date of last disbursement out of
the loan andalr credit, as given by Controller's Department data.



- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT (LOAN 557-GUI)
Amounts (in US$ mln)
As of 12/31/76
Original         Disbursed        Cancelled          Repaid     Outstanding
Loan     557-GUI      64.5              64.5                               6.5          58.0
Project Data
Orignal                                                    Actual or
Plan                   Revisions                       Est.  Actual
Conception in Bank          1966                                                       6/66
Board Approval                                                                       9/ 17/ 68
Loan/Credit Agreement      9/ 18 / 68                                                9/ 18/ 68
Effectiveness    12 / 11 / 68                                               12/ 11/ 68
Physical Completion       12 / 72                                                      3 / 73
'. of original project
actually completed         50%                                                        100j;,
Loan/Credit Closing      4 / 1 / 72                                                   12/ 72
Total Costs (mln)       US$123                      numerous                     (see 766-GUI)
Econ. Rate of Return         18 %                                                (see 766-GUI)
Mission Data
Month,        No. of        No. of                        I)ate of
Year          Weeks        Persons       Manweeks        Report
Identification             1966            1              2             2
Preparation                1966/67         7              4            28
Preappraisal               5/67            3              3             9
Appraisal                  11/67           |              3             3           8/30/68
Subtotal                            12                           42
Supervision     I           5/70           1.0            1             1            n.a.
Supervision    II         11/70            1.0            2             2           12/70
Supervision  III            3/71           1.0            2             2            3/71
Supervision    IV          10/71           1.0            2             2           11/71
Supervision     V           2/72           0.5            2             _            3/72
Subtotal                            4.5                           8
Follow-on Proiect
Loan 766-GUI of US$9 min, signed in June 1971 for Boke Bauxite Project.
Date of Conception in Bank is date Bank first recorded project was being considered for
financing and began to follow up that decision in a serious continuous way (Project
Negotiations or Country General Files). Actual Loan/Credit Closing Date is date of last
disbursement out of the loan and/or credit, as given by Controller's Department data.



- iii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE EXTENSION PROJECT (LOAN 766-GUI)
Amounts (in US$ mln)
As of 12/31/76
Original         Disbursed        Cancelled         Repaid      Outstanding
Loan    766-GUI       9.0               9.0                              0.8           8.2
Project Data
Orifinal                                                  Actual or
PIan                  Revisions                        I.st.  Actual
Conception in Bank          1966     numerous (see 557-GUI)                          10/ 70
Board Approval                                                                      6/ 22 / 71
Loan/Credit Agreement        -                                                      6/25_/   71
Effectiveness    9 /28 /71                                                  9/29_/  71
Physical Completion      4 / 73                                                       7/ 73
I of original project
actually completed        80%                                                       100l .
Loan/Credit Closing      3/ 31/ 74                                                 3/31/74
Total Costs (mln)       US$165-                  numerous                         US$275 /a
Econ. Rate of Return for    26%                                                       32% /a
Guinea                              Mission Data
Month,       No. of         No. of                       1ate (4i
Year         Weeks         Persons      Manweeks        _Reprort
Identification              10/70          1 (headquarters)             2          10/23/70
Preparation   )
Preappraisal  )            11/70           6       "     4             24            n.a.
Appraisal                  11/71           1             3              3           5/28/71
Subtotal                             8                           29
Supervision     I           4/72           1             4              4            6/72
Supervision   II           11/72           1             2              2            2/73
Supervision  III            1/74           1             2              2            5/74
Supervision   IV            9/74           1             1              1           12/74
Supervision    V           10/75           2             4              8            3/76
Subtotal                            6                           17
Date of Conception in Bank is date Bank first recorded project was being considered for
financing and began to follow up that decision in a serious continuous way (Project Negotia-
tions or Country General Files). Actual Loan/Credit Closing Date is date of last disburse-
ment out of the loan and/or credit, as given by Controller's Department data.
/a   Refers to total project financed by Loan 557-GUI and this loan.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT (LOANS Sl-GUI, 557-GUI & 766-GUI)
HIGHLIGHTS
This project provided a total of US$75.2 million in Bank loans
to the Republic of Guinea to help finance the infrastructure part of a
bauxite mining project. This part included port and railway facilities,
housing for the staff, and general services for the townships. The final
cost of the project in constant prices is close to the appraisal fore-
cast. First bauxite shipments took place about 13 months later than
expected. The economic rate of return of the project is higher than ex-
pected, mainly because of higher prices for bauxite exports. The project
has given rise to some criticism by the Government, chiefly concerning
the general Bank approach to the project and the townsite design. However,
given the complexity of the project and all the major difficulties en-
countered, the Bank's role can be considered a success.
The following points may be of particular interest:
Reinvestment of economic benefits (paras. 3.09-3.11 and PCR,
Section 7 and Appendix 2);
Issue of the split of economic benefits of the project (paras.
3.01-3.08, 4.02 and PCR, Appendix 1);
Performance under the institutional agreements for the opera-
tion of the project (para. 3.12 and PCR, paras. 4.03,
5.06-5.08 and 6.01-6.07);
Expatriate manpower and inadequate training of local personnel
(paras. 3.13-3.14 and PCR, Appendix 2);
Question of townsite size and services provided (paras. 3.15-
3.16 and PCR, Appendix 2);
Problems of procurement (PCR, paras. 4.11, 4.20, Section 9
and para. 12.09); and
Government criticisms (PCR, Section 8).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT (LOANS Sl-GUI, 557-GUI & 766-GUI)
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Bank was first approached by the Government of Guinea in 1964
for assistance in developing the infrastructure for a bauxite mining
project being then defined after a basic agreement signed in 1963 between
Guinea and Harvey Aluminum Company, a private enterprise in the bauxite and
aluminum business. The name of the company was changed to Halco (Mining) Inc.
on April 1, 1964. The Government established in 1965 a semi-autonomous or-
ganization, l'Office d'Amenagement de Boke'(OFAB), to carry out the engi-
neering project, supervise construction of infrastructure, and subsequently
operate and maintain the facilities (PCR, Appendix 1). An engineering
loan of US$1.7 million (Si-GUI) was approved by the Bank on March 29, 1966
to finance the foreign exchange costs of detailed engineering of that in-
frastructure project.
Prior Loan (557-GUI)
1.02      The Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee (CBG) was formed in 1966
with 51% participation of Halco and 49% of the Government, the latter in
the form of mineral rights leased to CBG amounting to US$1 million.    Halco
was reorganized to include among its partners six big aluminum enterprises.-
Bauxite sales contracts totalling 5.1 million tons per year between CBG
and the stockholders of Halco were also signed in April 1967. The infra-
structure/mining project was finally defined for an extraction and processing
level of 6 million tons of bauxite per annum and appraised in October 1967.
The mining project comprised an open cast mine, crushing, loading and cal-
cining equipment and two townships (Sangaredi and Kamsar). The infrastruc-
ture part included port and railway facilities, housing for the staff and
general services for the townships. Together with the mineral rights,
the infrastructure constituted the Government's contribution to the develop-
ment. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$123 million; the
cost of infrastructure was US$79.5 million. The prior loan for US$64.5
million was signed in 1968 to finance the foreign exchange cost of:
(a)  new port installation at Kamsar with a dredged access channel;
(b) 136 km railway from Kamsar to the Sangaredi mining area; and
(c) new town at Kamsar to house the personnel engaged in operat-
ing the project designed for a maximum capacity of 6 million
tons per annum.
1/   Aluminum Company of America, Alcan Aluminum Ltd., Martin Marietta
Aluminum, Vereignite Aluminum Werke, Pechiney-Ugine and Mon tecatini
Edison. The latter was replaced by Alumetal in 1967.



- 2 -
Some ancillary buildings and works were also included in the loan together
with housing for OFAB personnel in the townsite. USAID also made in 1968
a loan of US$21 million equivalent to finance the local costs of the
project.
1.03      Guinea was not at that time considered creditworthy according to
Bank standards, but the Bank decided to go ahead with the loan and to accept
the guarantee offered by the six private aluminum companies' partners in
Halco. A "White Book" contained the agreements resulting from complicated
legal and technical arrangements between the partners:
(a)  loan and project agreements between the Bank and Govern-
ment of Guinea and OFAB, respectively;
(b)  financial assurances and trust agreements between the Bank
and Government, OFAB, CBG, Halco, each of the six participa-
ting aluminum companies, and a private banking institution
serving as trustee under the trust agreement;
(c)  railway and port agreements between the Government/OFAB
and CBG for the use of infrastructure;
(d)  training agreements between Government and CBG/Halco;
(e)  technical assistance and training agreements between
Government and CBG/Halco for mining installation; and
(f)  agreements governing participation in Halco of the six
aluminum companies.
Two other documents regulated CBG use of Guinean currency and the trans-
fer to Guinea of bauxite deposits in Tamara Island. The financial
assurance agreement included a force majeure clause relieving CBG and
Halco's shareholders of their obligation under certain political events
narrowly defined.
1.04      As there was no real world market price for bauxite, Guinea
had agreed with Harvey Aluminum Company on a basic transfer price -- or
price at which the country would sell the bauxite to foreign partners --
in 1963. A new transfer price for sales of bauxite from CBG to Halco
was set in 1967 so that the debt of both CBG and the Government would be
repaid over a certain period. The resulting transfer price (US$7/ton
FOB as an average, with slight variations depending on ore quality) was
similar to that of bauxite of similar grade (e.g., in Surinam). An
escalation clause was introduced in the transfer price of bauxite,
linked to US wholesale price index. Guinea would retain ownership of
infrastructure, would charge to CBG all costs resulting out of its use,
and would obtain revenues, amounting to 65% of net taxable profits of
CBG. Guinea's debt service, and operation and maintenance expenses of
infrastructure, would be debited against bauxite sales. Debt service



- 3 -
would, in case of insufficiency, be covered by CBG advances recoverable
from government's share of profits.
Loan Extension (766-GUI.)
1.05      Halco and the Guinea   Government agreed in November 1970 to in-
crease the capacity of the project to 9.2 million tons per year. Additional
contracts for 3.9 million tons were signed between Guinea and Halco's
partners. The new cost estimate for the total project was US$165 million.
The Bank was approached for further finance, which resulted in June
1971 in a loan of US$9.0 million for port extension, upgrading of
railway track and construction of sidings to accommodate heavier and
longer trains, road construction and other works to increase the capacity
of the hospital and services at Kamsar.
1.06      The new project did not entail any major revision of the existing
understandings and agreements, with the only exception of:
(a)  Government's agreement to improve road access between Kamsar
and Conakry;
(b)  updating of financial guarantees and participation agree-
ments; and
(c)  updating of sales' contracts to new production levels.
Mine and processing plant were financed by Halco and private lenders. The
Bank loan plus an AID loan of US$21 million, to finance local costs,
covered 100% of infrastructure costs at the time of appraisal.
1.07      For the extension contract, covering the additional 3.9 million
tons per annum, the transfer price would be US$9 per ton for the first
15 years and US$10 per ton for the remaining 5 years. The same adjustments
for grade variations and price escalation clauses as applied to the initial
contracts were extended to the additional contracts.
II. PROJECT PERFORMANCE
2.01      Final construction cost of the project has been US$275 million
equivalent compared with US$165 million equivalent (including contingencies)
contemplated at appraisal of the project extension. The main factors ex-
plaining the cost overrun were additional price escalation and varia-
tions in exchange rates; the cost of the project in constant prices
was -lose to the appraisal estimates.   Bank's intervenL.on was instrumenta
in reducing the costs of infrastructure works and of keeping them within
tight budgetary limits (PCR, para. 4.26). The performance of the contractors
has been generally satisfactory (PCR, para. 4.18).



- 4 -
2.02      Bauxite is being mined and shipped, and although original produc-
tion targets are not yet being achieved (PCR, para. 5.09), the benefits
anticipated at appraisal should be exceeded due to large price increases.
First bauxite shipments took place in August 1973, about 13 months later
than forecast; shipping targets are being reached two years later than
forecast. The main reasons for delays were:
(a) decision to extend the capacity of the project from 6 million
tons to 9.2 million tons;
(b) difficulties in recruiting labor and poor quality of middle
management;
(c) difficulties in communications;
(d) the 1969 strikes in Italy; and
(e) the November 1970 warfare situation in Guinea.
Operating problems (mainly because of the destruction of the primary crusher)
also contributed to the failure to meet shipping targets (PCR, para. 4.02).
2.03      OFAB has fulfilled its loar. covenants to a reasonable extent.   But
a chief accountant has not yet been appointed and a number of the recommenda-
tions made by the consultants employed under the UNDP grant have not been
implemented. The Government has complied with most of its loan covenants.
The two main exceptions have been that the Government has not caused the road
to Conakry to be properly maintained and that an additional tax on bauxite
shipments was imposed resulting from a --ew special tax on exports of mining
products. The effect of this tax was to change unilaterally the mechanism
for the distribution of benefits of the project originally negotiated between
Guinea and the foreign investors.
2.04      Excluding the export tax iimposed by the Government, financial
and economic returns of the project for Guinea would have been 26% and 28%,
respectively, compared with about 21% and 26% contemplated at appraisal of the
extension project (PCR, Appendix 1). The additional revenues accruing to
the Government in the form of export tax resulted in higher financial and
economic returns for Guinea amounting to 30% and 32%, respectively.
2.05      The project, one of the most complex in Bank's history, covered
a time span of ten years between identification of the engineering loan
to completion. It has given rise to a number of criticisms by the Govern-
ment (not always well founded) mainly because of dissatisfaction with the
Bank's approach to the physical design of the project. In particular,
considerable reductions in the standards of the original project made at
the Bank suggestion have been criticized by the Government. These reduc-
tions have not affected the viability of the project and are discussed
and commented upon in Section 8 of the PCR. The audit agrees with those
comments.



- 5 -
2.06      The Bank supervised closely both projects, in the field and from
headquarters. Bank staff examined thoroughly bidding documents and bid
awards. On this subject, the Guinean Government has shown impatience for
the Bank's "lengthy procedures." Many problems resulting from difficult
communications -- real or perceived -- between the contractors, consulting
engineers and Halco, all having headquarters scattered in Europe and
America, were ironed out by the Bank; cases in --oi- a3_ selection of con-
tractors, consultants and the constitution of the Construction Coordinating
Committee.
2.07      In view of the complexity of the project, the economic and politi-
cal environment of Guinea and the inherent risks associated with it, the
Bank's role can be considered a success.
III. MAIN ISSUES
Split of Benefits Between Guinea and the Foreign Investors
3.01      The project's total economic benefits can be measured by the value
of the incremental aluminum production (net of operating expenses) made pos-
sible by the exploitation of the Boke'bauxite fields. The split of those
benefits between the foreign investor (Halco) and Guinea is an interesting
issue raised by the project.
3.02      The most important variable for the benefit split is the transfer
price for bauxite. Given a fixed price for aluminum, Halco's benefits (per
ton) would be equal to alternative CIF aluminum plant prices for bauxite
minus Kamsar transfer prices minus shipping costs between Kamsar and alumi-
num plants plus Halco's participation in CBG's net revenue (35% of the
difference between transfer price and operating expenses), while Guinea's
benefits (per ton) would be its 65% share of the CBG net revenue (transfer
price minus operating expenses).
3.03      Therefore, the lower the transfer price, the larger Halco's
share of the project benefits. On the other hand, Guinea's share of bene-
fits depends on the difference between transfer prices and CBG operating
costs; and the higher the transfer price, the larger the benefits for the
country.
3.04      There was thus a potential conflict of interest between Halco and
Guinea which was also a reflection of their different positions vis-a-vis
the market for bauxite. While Guinea was expected to supply about half the
additional world supplies between 1969 and 1975 (a large part of the other
half to come from other developing countries needing suibstantial foreign
exchange for their development), Halco's six partners were among the largest
bauxite buyers in the world and accounted for roughly 40% of world bauxite
consumption. The CIF aluminum plant prices for bauxite depended mainly on
FOB bauxite prices in other supplying countries; and these prices were con-
trolled by a very small number of companies, most of them partners in Halco,
which also controlled the marketing and processing of aluminum.



- 6 -
3.05      Before project appraisal, Guinea and Halco agreed on a transfer
price of US$7/ton. The benefit split resulting from this transfer price was
considered fair to Gutinea at appraisal, and an escalation clause for the trans-
fer price was agreed upon to protect CBG against cost increase. This clause
linked the transfer price to the variation in local wages, the cost of
diesel and fuel oil, and the US wholesale commodity Price Index. It was
expected that this escalation clause would help maintain the stability of the
original agreement about the transfer price and that the resulting benefit
split would therefore continue to be satisfactory for both parties.
3.06      However, this expectation did not materialize because of the lack
of a direct link between the transfer price and aluminum prices and trans-
fer prices from other sources, in the context of the strong world inflationary
tendencies of the 1970s. In a period of price stability, this missing link
with market forces would not have been a problem, but in the strong
inflationary environment of the 1970s, it created a conflict of interest
between the foreign partners and Guinea. Market prices increased more
rapidly than production costs and as this was disadvantageous for Guinea's
share in the project benefits, the Government reacted by imposing a new
export tax on all mining exports in early 1975. The resulting transfer price
increased by about 51%, and the revenues to Guinea increased to about 57% of
the FOB value of bauxite exports.
3.07      A study of the fairness of the benefit split is outside the scope
of this audit. However, this experience suggests that the mechanisms by
which benefits are defined and shared merit further study, both at the
methodological and the empirical levels. The findings of such research
could be very useful in helping to develop terms of contracts between host
countries and foreign partners that would, for any agreed benefit sharing
objective, ensure a more stable basis for future operations and relationships.
Long Run Returns for Guinea
3.08      The issue of maximizing the long run return for Guinea is related
to an efficient reinvestment of Guinea's surplus funds from bauxite revenues.
In developed economies an efficient reinvestment of surplus funds is assured
by the ripple effect throughout the market forces. In less developed econo-
mies such as Guinea, a special effort is required to internalize and multiply
the benefits.
3.09      Guinea is transferring -- to transport, other infrastructure, and
human capital -- resources proceeding from the mine. Transport infrastruc-
ture, whose marginal operating costs and depreciation are covered and ensured
by agreement between CBG and OFAB, has spare capacity which should be utilized.
Townsites and services not covered by agreement between CBG and OFAB are unable,
as of now, to generate sufficient funds for their simple reproduction and
training is at a standstill (para. 3.13). There are, thus, slacks that reduce
the maximum achievable efficiency of Guinean resources.
3.10      However, since existing physical infrastructure is a joint input
necessarily localized, and human capital is almost exclusively tied to CBG
and OFAB activities, the real question remains of how to allocate the cash
revenues received by the Covernment in order to maximize the impact of the



-7-
project on the overall economy of the country. This issue is explored in
the attached PCR (Section 7 and Appendix 2) and we agree with its recommen-
dations about possible efficient reinvestments in the Kamsar-Boke' area.
Institution Building
3.11      OFAB is responsible for management of the infrastructure part of
the project (para. 1). Even though OFAB is responsible to the Ministry of
Economic Development, its areas of activity fall under the jurisdiction
of various Ministries (for example, Health, Education and Transportation)
and this could create coordination problems. Another problem is OFAB's
dependence on CBG for overseas purchases because it has no foreign exchange
account. As a result, CBG receives sylis (the local currency) every year
from OFAB for these expenses, and the sylis are then used to pay local
wages and local expenses. The processing of OFAB orders depends on CBG
requirements for local currency. If CBG found itself with a surplus of sylis,
there would be no incentive to process OFAB orders for overseas purchases,
and the effect would be felt on OFAB operations.
3.12      The project could not have been carried out, and operations could
not have proceeded, without the massive support of expatriate manpower.
The Bank supported vital contributions of technical assistance such as the
setting up of a Construction Coordinating Committee which had a major role
in the successful completion of the project (PCR, para. 4.11). But, the
success in other areas has not been as great. In some cases, Guinea has
not absorbed operating and management techniques, brought about by expatri-
ates, some of them either not having been replaced by nationals or not
replaced at all, and the recommendations of others not having been followed
up (like the UNDP management consultant, PCR, para. 6.06).
3.13      The Government's veto of some nationalities reduced the choice in
expertise in both execution and transfer of technical assistance. Expatri-
ate consulting firms and individuals employed by OFAB to run the railway
and port respectively are performing well but are not training successors.
Training is now at a standstill. CBG's training has suffered from a tight
money policy and is not satisfying OFAB's expectations. OFAB itself lacks
the budget and expertise to run any major training program. The Government
is concerned about the situation and in recent Board meetings, CBG was
asked to prepare an accelerated training and Africanization program for
senior staff to make up for the delay in this area. Further training of
Guinean nationals will:
(a) introduce industrial skills necessary for the future
development of the region;
(b) add benefits to national income since more Guineans
would have been employed;
(c) reduce the payments in foreign exchange to foreign
nationals; and



-8-
(d) reduce the strategic dependence on expatriate manpower to
exploit national resources.
Townsite Sites
3.14      One of the issues in defining the project extension was to deter-
mine the size of towns at Kamsar and Sangaredi and their financing. The
reduction of townsite costs at Kamsar recommended by the Bank consisted of
decreasing the number of houses and practically eliminating ancillary services
and leisure activities.
3.15      The Government has criticized the extent of the townsite and its
services as insufficient (PCR, paras. 8.03.7 - 8.03.12). However, OED
agrees with the PCR that the Bank's decision was, in retrospect, sound.
While a large and better equipped town for a 9.2 million tons/year production
level would have added to the welfare standards and expectations of CBG/OFAB
employees, it would have increased costs of the infrastructure project by
about 17%/. More important, it would have been cumbersome and finally impos-
sible to design the optimum sites and services package without explicit
indications of the Government's or residents' preferences. Houses, although
expensive compared with similar houses in more developed countries, were
finally built to the minimum standards required to attract qualified staff
to the Sangaredi and Kamsar sites. The trimming of townsite costs at Kamsar
recommended by the Bank has not prevented the formation of a relatively
large town, with areas of influence for health services well beyond Kamsar
itself. It could have been expected, once the mining operations started,
that some part of the mining revenues would eventually be reinvested in
housing.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
4.01      The project has been successfully completed.    The final construc-
tion cost in constant prices is close to the appraisal forecast; and even
though the first bauxite shipment took place 13 months later than expected,
the performance can still be considered satisfactory given the complexity
of the project and the various extraneous circumstances affecting project
implementation. The economic rate of return for Guinea is 32%, which is
higher than the appraisal forecast of 26%.
4.02      The stability of the agreement about the split of benefits would
have required that the transfer price be linked to aluminum prices. The
escalation clause agreed upon was only cost-based; and in the inflationary
environment of the 1970s market prices increased more than production costs,
thus creating a disadvantage for Guinea. The broader issue of what is a
fair split of benefits is outside the scope of this audit.



ATTACHMENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT (LOANS SI-GUI, 557-GUI & 766-GUI)
1.   Project Data:
1.01                                    557 GUI          766 GUI           Total
Amount of Loan                            US$ 64.5 m       US$ 9.Om         US$ 73.5m
Amount disbursed                          US$ 64.5 m       US$ 9.Om         US$ 73.5m
Date of Loan Agreement                    Sept. 18, 1968   June 25, 1971
Effective date                            Dec. 15, 1968          -
Closing date                              Dec. 31, 1972    March 31, 1974
Date of previous Supervision Mission      Dec. 12, 1974
Exchange rate (at appraisal) $1-          GF 250           GF 250
Exchange rate (Bank current) $1-          Sylis 20.4628    (Sylis 1 = GF 10)
1.02          The project was carried out as part of the overall Bokh Bauxite
Development Project which comprises an open cast mine, crushing, loading and
calcining equipment and two townships - at Sangaredi and Kamsar. It was
designed to provide the necessary infrastructure for the project, which to-
gether with the mineral rights constituted the Government contribution to
the development. The cost of this infrastructure was 42% of the total cost
at the time of appraisal and about 40% at completion. The Bank loan plus AID
loan covered 100% of the costs, including local costs on current account, at the
time of appraisal. By completion this had fallen to 73% on capital account,
with the difference being made up by overage loans from Halco. On current
account there was a shortfall of about 15%, made up by advances from the
Government.



- A.2 -
1.03       The infrastructure consisted of:
(a) a new port installation, including a bulk-loading wharf, approach
jetty, a new 17-km dredged approach channel, buoyage, service craft
and some handling equipment;
(b) a 136-km standard gauge railway from the mine at Sangaredi to the
crushing plant at Kamsar, with locomotives and rolling stock re-
quired for general, i.e., non-mineral, services (the other locomo-
tives and rolling stock being supplied by CBG);
(c) housing for the staff of the Office d'Amenagement de Boke (OFAB)
including port, railway and municipal employees; and
(d) general services for the townships, including water supply, hospital
and schools.
1.04      The extent and quality of this infrastructure was considerably
influenced by the Bank intervention, which resulted in such modifications
as to reduce the cost from the $124m originally requested to the $65m ori-
ginally accorded. Most of this is not, however, a permanent saving and will
either have to be found out of profits (e.g. additional housing) or national
funds (e.g. water supply extension to villages).
1.05      A UNDP grant of $492,000 provided for technical assistance for the
management of the infrastructure.
1.06       Local costs were financed by a USAID Loan for Sylis 447m ($21.8m).
Cost overruns and additional working capital requirements ($25m) were financed
by overage loans from the Compagnie de Bauxite de Guinge (CBG), the exploiting
company, on the same terms as the Bank loan and disbursed under the control of
the Bank.
1.07       CBG is a mixed company, owned 51% by Halco, a consortium of aluminium
manufacturers and 49% by the Government of Guinea. Halco has provided a nomi-
nal equity, $46m loan capital and subordinated debt through direct subscription
and has met the rest of its share of the project and operating costs ($211m)
through loans guaranteed by Halco or its constituents. The 49% of the Govern-
ment is a nominal valuation of the mineral rights. The investment arising
out of the Bank loans is outside the company and is serviced by amortization
charges to CBG, royalties and taxes.
1.08       OFAB is a semi-autonomous Government agency charged with the manage-
ment of the infrastructure and with monitoring the Government interest in CBG.
1.09       Under the Loan and Project Agreement the following were the main
special covenants:
(a) the Government undertook to perform its obligations under various
agreements with CBG, to which the Bank was not otherwise a party
(557-5.08 (a) ). Of special significance in these agreements were:
(i) the setting up of a Construction Coordinating Committee; and
(ii) an agreement not to levy additional taxes on bauxite pro-
duction or sales;



- A.3 -
(b) OFAB undertook to employ qualified staff, approved by the Bank, as
Directors of Railway, Port and Port City departments as well as a
chief accountant and chief engineer (557 2.05 (c) ); and
(c) the Government undertook the repair and maintenance of the main
route to Conakry including both the road and the ferry crossing
en route.
2.   Summary
2.01      The project and its extension, with minor revisions, have been
executed as envisaged at appraisal.
2.02      Bauxite is being mined and shipped and, although the original pro-
duction targets are not yet being achieved, the benefits anticipated at apprai-
sal should be exceeded due to large price increases.
2.03      OFAB has fulfilled its covenants to a reasonable extent but has not
yet appointed a chief accountant nor implemented a number of the recommendations
made by the consultants employed under the UNDP grant.
2.04      The Government has also fulfilled most of its covenants with the
following notable exceptions:
(a) it has raised an export tax on bauxite shipments; and
(b) it has not maintained the route to Conakry.
2.05      The comparison between the rates of return at appraisal of the origiP
nal project (i) of the extension (ii) and as of this time (iii) is as follows:
(a) financial rate of return on the total investment:
(i) 14.5% (ii) 19.5% (iii) 22.9%
(b) financial rate of return on Guinea's investment:
(i) 14.5% (ii) 20.8% (iii) 26%
(c) economic rate of return for Guinea:
(i) 18%    (ii) 26%     (iii) 27.7%
2.06      The project is a complex one, and this has given rise to a number of
problems. The friction between the parties and the criticism of the Bank arising
out of this fre largely the result of forgetfulness of the reasons for many of
the decisions in the project design. These are, therefore, listed and discussed
separately '(Section 8). None of these matters should significantly inhibit the
success of the project.



- A.4 -
3. Background of Project
3.01      As early as 1964 the Government of Guinea approached the Bank for
participation in the financing of a bauxite mining project which was to make
an important contribution to the development of the country's economy. At
that time the Government had already entered into an agreement with a US
aluminum producer, Harvey Aluminum Company (later Halco Mining, Inc. was
established by this firm for the Guinean project) to create the Compagnie
des Bauxites de Guinge (CBG) which would mine some 1-1 1/2 million tons
of bauxite in Guinea. The Government had already undertaken, in an agreement
with Halco signed in 1963, to provide the infrastructure for the project,
consisting of a railway, a port and a township; and Halco was to supply the
mining, processing and bauxite train equipment.
3.02      At the time the Bank considered that much more detailed engineering
would be needed before the project would be appraised, and in early 1966 made
a US$1.7 million engineering loan (SI-GUI) for the infrastructure project.
When in early 1967 several other large aluminum firms also became interested
in purchasing Guinea's high grade bauxite, the project had to be enlarged so
as to accommodata the mining and transportation of some 5-6 million tons
annually. As a result thereof, Halco was reorganized by including the pros-
pective buyers as shareholders in the company. The increased mining capacity
called for revision of the engineering plans; this, and the reorganization of
Halco, required the settling of many financial and legal issues before the Bank
Loan 557 GUI was signed in September 1968.
3.03      In November 1970 Halco and the Guinean Government agreed to increase
the capacity to 9.2m tons p.a. This resulted in the need for further Bank
finance, provided under Loan 766 GUI in June 1971. Major redesign was not
undertaken at this stage, there being sufficient spare capacity in many of
the major items. For the factory the construction cost increase for the
additional 50% output was estimated at 13%, for the infrastructure at 20%.
The fact, however, that this extension was undertaken during the construction
period created considerable difficulties for the consulting engineers, both
in their design and management function and in the negotiation of the commer-
cial content of the resulting variation orders.
3.04      Ever since the start of appraisal, the Bank has tended to treat the
project as an enclave, while the Government has pursued wider regional objec-
tives when dealing with loans but not when dealing with profits. The exception
of this on the Bank side was the insistence that the Government rehabilitate
and maintain the road to Conakry. The Government, however, remained consistent
in its attitude and did not do it, no money therefore having been provided in
the Loan.
3.05      While both approaches are theoretically questionable, that of the
Bank was supported by commercial, of the Government by political, expediency.
Both the commercial and political situation could be subjected to review



- A.5 -
4.    Physical Execution of the Project
General
4.01       Consultants Tractionel (Belgium) were retained for the design and
supervision of the project. Contracts were awarded as the result of inter-
national competitive bidding. The advantages of having the same consultant
working for both OFAB and CBG and of using the same contractor wherever pos-
sible for the work of the two owners, outweighed the difficulties. Two special
measures were necessary, however, because of the lack of relevant expertise in
OFAB:
(a) a second firm of consultantq,NEDECO (Holland), was retained in the
early stages to comment on the Tractionel designs. This was of
limited value; and
(b) during the construction period a Construction Coordinating Committee
(CCC) was formed consisting of one representative each of the two
owners and an independent chairman, to resolve possible areas of con-
flict. This was both necessary and successful.
4.02      Execution of the project was delayed, first by strikes in Italy
affecting the main contractor AMACEW (an international consortium led by
Astaldi (Italy) with Constructions et Entreprises Industrielles (Belgium)
and Westminster Dredging Co., Ltd. (U.K.) ) , which caused a loss of about
3 1/2 months in the first dry season; then by the political problems follow-
ing the invasion of November 1970; by the bankruptcy of the subcontractor for
the port and jetty; and by a cholera scare. Operating problems (particularly
design problems in the primary crusher) also contributed to the failure to
meet bauxite shipping targets. The first shipment was, in fact, made on
August 2, 1973 (original target had been July 1, 1972); and total shipments
to September 1973 approximated 100,000 tons, as opposed to 5 miLlion tons forecast.
4.03      Although the cost of the works at constant prices was very close to
forecast and the time delays basically explicable in terms of special circum-
stances such as those indicated above, the execution of the works has raised
a number of issues, notably regarding:
(a) the ways in which the contracts were split;
(b) procurement;
(c) bonuses; and
(d) supervision;
and there remain a number of questions outstanding regarding design. These
are given a compendious treatment in a report from the consultants (Final
Construction Report 1974, 2 vols.). The most relevant matters are discussed
below (Sections 8 and 9).



- A.6 -
Port
4.04      The principal civil engineering works for the port, including the
dredging, were all completed by mid-May 1972, fifteen months before the first
shipment. Early completion was necessary for the erection of the loader and
for the handling of equipment required for other parts of the project. For
technical reasons some of the specifications for the piles were changed after
the main contract had been let. These reasons are fully documented and appear
justified.
4.05      The pilot boat, 800 hp tug, buoys and other equipment were supplied
according to specification. There have been complaints about the adequacy of
the tug, lack of a suitable boat for the buoy master, failure of lights on the
buoys, inadequacy of structure of buoys and corrosion of buoy chains. Of these,
the problem of the tug and the buoy structures was foreseen and are discussed
in &03.1 - 8.03.4, together with the question of the adequacy of the length of
the wharf and the depth of the dredged channel which also require comment.
Railway
4.06      The railway was substantially completed in November 1972 and was used
from then on for the transport of equipment to the site at Sangaredi. The first
ore train left Sangaredi on April 26, 1973.
4.07      There was a major derailment in July 1973.   The damage was adequately
covered by insurance and has been repaired. There have been a large number of
welding failures which the contractor is currently correcting at his own ex-
pense.
4.08      There has been trouble with some of the signalling equipment, which
however was probably unnecessary in the first place and has since been removed
without affecting operations.
Townships
4.09      Progress in construction was too slow to allow the permanent buildings
to make the contribution anticipated to the housing of contractors' staff, which
at one time (January 1973) numbered 700. There were several changes in the
design of the houses and their furnishings as the needs for economy were balanced
against the harsh living conditions. The main current complaints concern sani-
tation and water supply. The possibility of problems was foreseen and the rea-
sons for the present situation are discussed in 8.03.7 - 8.03.12, 8.03.13, and
8.03.15.
4.10      The actual number of houses is also now considered inadequate.    It
must be remembered, however, that the original design was only intended to
cover that fraction of the final requirements which were necessary for initial
operations. There is also a lack of recreational facilities.



- A.7 -
Performance of Consulting Engineers
4.11      The fact that the work was completed so close to forecast real
prices and that shipments started only 13 months late in spite of various
extraneous circumstances is the general measure of the consultants' per-
formance. They considered themselves hampered by the Bank's requirements for
international tendering, which meant that designs and specifications had to be
left sufficiently indefinite to allow a reasonable number of firms to bid their
proprietary equipment. This applied to the area of mining and processing as well
as the infrastructure. They were critical of the employment of Nedeco as ad-
visers to OFAB but appreciative of the work of the CCC in resolving areas of
conflict between the owners.
Performance of CCC
4.12     The CCC has worked very well, and much of the credit must go to its
chairman, Mr. May. The decisions and cost allocations for which it has been
responsible have been generally accepted as reasonable by all parties.
Performance of Other Consultants
4.13      The experience with the chief accountant allocated to the project was
not good. On his leaving, moreover, he was not replaced; Even now, after
completion of the works, OFAB has not appointed its own chief accountant, in
spite of repeated recommendations from Inbucon, the consultants appointed under
the UNDP management project. However, in the opinion of the Government, this
vacant position has not created a serious gap in OFAB's management because the
functions of the chief accountant are carried out by OFAB's financial director
in Conakry and by an expert in Kamsar who coordinate the financial aspects of
the project.
4.14     Inbucon itself produced work of varied quality.   Its output was no
doubt affected by its expectation of an extension of its contract. The nature
of the expected extension and the preparations undertaken for it themselves indi-
cated a certain remoteness from the most immediate problems -- a concern for the
more esoteric aspects of "management" before there was really something or
someone to manage.
.4.15     The employment of Nedeco to strengthen the Guinean Government in
their dialogue with Tractionnel was virtually without effect, and the report
they produced is never referred to. Generally, in cases of this sort it is
better for the Government to recruit personnel, expatriates if necessary, who
will have executive rather than advisory responsibilities over the whole
period of the contract. The extent, however, to which such a person will be
allowed to exercize such responsibilities depends on the attitude of the Govern-
ment which may well be jealous of any diminution of its own authority. This
can make the problem of owner/consultant dialogue difficult until the country
has sufficiently qualified personnel inside the career civil service.
4.16      The various individual expatriates recruited for the port have per-
formed well. There is, however, a problem in the recruitment of a Port Director,
who the Government insists should be a civil engineer. In the meantime the
Harbor Master is adequately taking care of the responsibilities.
4.17      Rather than recruit individuals, OFAB let the railway management to
CANAC, a Canadian firm of railway consultants. While the functioning of the
service is satisfactory, too little attention is being given either to training
or to cost control. The shortcomings in this latter area are probably due to
the relationship between the railway and CBG, which is discussed below (5 .06).



- A.8 -
Performance of Contractors
4.18     The performance of the contractors has been generally satisfactory,
again as evidenced by the degree to which schedules of cost and time were
maintained. This to a certain extent contradicts the feeling expressed by
Halco that the main contractor AMECEW 4.02) took advantage of its position
both as regards rescheduling of works and as regards variation orders. The
opportunities which existed in this respect should in any case be attributed
not to superficiality on the part of the consulting engineers but to the re-
quirements for partial design imposed by the tendering procedures
In another sphere the ability of Astaldi to obtain high productivity from
local labor, through piece work based on generous time content, has attracted
favorable comment.
4.19      Inadequate inspection in the factory as far as bucket wheels and rail-
way wagons were concerned and inadequate supervision of railway welds, have all
caused problems which have been or are being rectified at the contractor's ex-
pense.
4.20      The best standardization of equipment has not been achieved, partly as
a result of one supplier going into liquidation, partly as a result of the way
in which the contracts were split. There are undoubted operational benefits
to be achieved by the grouping of bought-out items as well as of civil works,
and methods of achieving this in a multiple supply and erect situation as in
this project would be worth investigating.
4.21      Difficulties encountered in the erection of steel work supplied by
Krupp when the Government refused entry visas to all West German personnel were
successfully overcome through the cooperation of the various contractors con-
cerned.
Operation and Prospects
4.22      There are now no physical reasons why the target output of 9m tons
p.a. should not be achieved. Both port and railway capacity are
adequate, and the problems with the operation of the pan feeders in the
plant appear to have been solved. The comments on inadequate preventive main-
tenance in the report of December 12, 1974 (Completion Repprt of the Mine and
Processing Plant - CW Lorenz) no longer apply, and there is sufficient capa-
city to cope with the odd breakdown of unduplicated equipment such as the
elevator/tipper.
4.23      The foreign currency requirements of OFAB for the maintenance of the
infrastructure are being covered by CBG to the extent that they are not pro-
vided for in trust accounts. Should CBG decide to withdraw this assistance, as
they are entitled to, the main effects would be felt in the township rather
than the production line.



- A.9 -
Cost of Project
4.24      The forecast and the actual costs are compared in the table below.
While the Bank loan is related to the infrastructure, its justification is based
on the project as a whole.
Construction (at 1968 prices including 13.5% inflation contingency)
Mine      Infrastructure       Total
$m             $m              $m
May 1968 (for 6m tons p.a.)     65             58              123
Final (for 9m tons p.,a.)       77             55              132
General & Finance (1971)             19             14               33
Increases
Additional Escalation                19              12              31
Delays                               17              4               21
Exchange rates                       18               9              27
IBRD interest                         1               7               8
Claims                                                                6
Engineering costs                                                    16
Grand Total (plus rounding errors)                                  275
4-25 The explanations for the increases are as follows:
(a) Additional escalation. Inflation was about 36% instead of 13.5%
(appraisal figure);
(b) Delays have been itemized above. Apart from the actual costs of the
results of schedule changes, bonuses had to be negotiated to minimize
the overall effect;
(c) Exchange rates. This item shows the effect of the depreciation of
the dollar;
(d) IBRD interest. This came to 21.5% of the construction cost as opposed
to 8.5% allowed for. The item also includes about $1m for the finan-
cing of a number of mining project contracts;
(e) Claims. These are the claims of contractors introduced during the
works and accepted by the owners. It should be noted that these
are under 4% of the cost of works plus escalation; and
(f) Engineering costs. These include owners' expenses. They arise out
of the extensions and improvements to the project, the additional
escalation and the requirement for additional services.



- A.10 -
4.26      The reduction of the construction cost of the infrastructure arose
out of a general scaling down of this element which the Bank insisted on at the
time of appraisal. It has given rise to criticism of the Bank which is discussed
in Sections 8 and 9.
Operating Costs
4.27       It is difficult to make a fair comparison between forecast and
actual operating costs because different outputs are being achieved at different
points on the learning curve. The following table, therefore, gives only an
approximate idea of the situation:
Appraisal (at 5m      Actual (at 6m tons
tons p.a.), per ton     p.a.), per ton
Variable (labor, materials, etc.)           $2.4                  $5
Fixed                                        1.8                   3.4
Interest                                     1.0                   2.6
5.2                  11.0
4.28      This increase in operating costs is highly comparable with the in-
creased capital cost. There is, however, a feeling in Guinea that local wages
are being held artificially low. Thus, although the increase in labor cost is
in line with the general price increases, in this case it may be due not only
to such wage increases as have been awarded but also to a lower-than-expected
level of efficiency. On the other hand the exchange rate is artificially high
so that the local cost component is overvalued in dollars. A real comparison
could only be made if the appraised and current labor contents were expressed
in man-hours, and if there were no shift in the labor mix.
5. Operating Forecasts and Results
5.01      There were a number of features of the appraisal report which make
comparisons between original and current forecasts difficult and probably non-
significant. For instance, the appraisal assumed that the entire construction
costs were incurred the year before exports started, and it did not distinguish
between the interests of the two groups of shareholders - Halco and the Govern-
ment - but rather between the Government and CBG. These matters are dealt with
more extensively in Appendix I           . The figures given below are, accord-
ingly, calculated on a different basis as well as using more recent figures.
Appraisal (1971)         1975
Financial RR - Guinea              20.8%            25.95% (without tax)
Financial RR - Halco (i)           not               13.6 %
t     If     It"  (ii)         calculated       21.25%
Economic RR -  Guinea              26%               27.65% (without tax)
Project as a whole                 19.5%             22.85%



- A.11 -
5.02      The second calculation of the financial RR for Halco assumes that
there is an additional benefit to the Halco shareholders of $2 per ton of
bauxite arising out of the way in which the transfer price is calculated.
This, and the sensitivity analyses therefore, are also discussed in Appendix I-
5.03      The transfer price itself was originally based on the then current
Jamaican price with provision for cost escalation only. Although this was
specifically pronounced equitable in the appraisal report, market prices have
in fact increased more than cost prices, and this would have disadvantaged the
Guinean Government. The latter imposed an export tax, which probably over-
compensated and resulted in the figures given above, at the same time breaking
a covenant to the Bank.
5.04      The tax was, however, imposed not merely to compensate for the un-
sensitivity of the price clause to market forces, which could have been
achieved by renegotiation, but also to enable the Government to reap the
benefits of the price increases over all the bauxite operations in the country.
This necessarily calls into question the reasonableness of the expectation
of any mineral exploiting company to make an agreement which will give them a
differential price advantage over others, either extracting in the same country
or even elsewhere in the world. It is not the object of this report to comment
on the morality of this situation, which will presumably be increasingly taken
into account by the private sector when making investments of this sort.
5.05      The above rates of return are all calculated on the basis of the
mineral in the soil having a value of under $lm. The Government export tax,
in fact, puts a value of about $50m on the local bauxite deposit. The ignoring
of this value obviously has implications both for appraisal and for viable
exploitation arrangements. These problems are discussed in Appendix I.
5.06     By separating the infrastructure from the mining operation and pro-
viding for its servicing on a direct cost basis, all incentive for economy and
control has been lost in this area. In fact, the railway produces no cost
accounts at all. This could give rise to difficulties if ever the railway is
used for other purposes - another mine or general traffic. The fact that the
port charges have to be related to port costs in order to build up sinking funds
does not relieve the system of this criticism.; The greater visibility of costs
of the port do, however, enable a general judgment to be made. The port is
expensive, but areas for saving are limited. The sinking funds, moreover,
are being properly maintained.
5.07      Other difficulties are being experienced in those parts of the infra-
structure where advance provision for foreign exchange requirements have not
been made. OFAB itself has no independent foreign exchange budget and has to
seek funds from the treasury. This means that, for all practical purposes, it
depends on CBG for overseas purchases. These tend, therefore, to be made either
on a crisis basis or on the basis of what CBG, rather than OFAB, considers to
be necessary.
5.08      Partly as a result of this lack of independence, OFAB has been unable
to engage in, or has been unsuccessful in pursuing, either extensions in its
original responsibility (new houses, sanitary services, etc.) or additions
thereto (food supply, fishing, etc.). This, however, is fully in accordance
with Government policy.



- A.12 -
Shipments
5.09      The difference between the appraisal forecast, actual shipments and
current forecast is shown In the table below. The causes are partly the con-
struction delays, non-availability of ships of correct tonnage
and possibly lack of exertion because of the softening of the market.
Millions of tons
73    74    75    76     77    78    79    80
Appraisal forecast     4.7   6.8   8     8.1   8.2   9     9     9
Actual                  .7   3.6   4.9
Current forecast                         6.3   8     8.1   8.6    9
6. Organization and Performance of the Borrower
6.01      The Office d'Amenagement de Boke (OFAB) was established by Decree
No. 425/PRF of December 31, 1965 and was the body responsible for the formu-
lation of contracts and their execution, as well as the administration of the
township, port and railway, arising out of the project.
6.02      The fact that OFAB is responsPble to the Minister of Economic
Development has created problems with,    for instance, the Ministry of Health
which would like to have a direct line of authority regarding the hospital;
the Ministry of Transport regatding the Port and the Railways; the Ministry of
Education regarding the school and training programs; the Provincial Governor
regarding planning matters in general. The political ability of the Director
has enabled OFAB to discharge its obligations within the limits of the capacity
of its personnel, but the existence of OFAB remains in constant jeopardy.
6.03       Its financial automony is rendered illusory by the fact that, although
it can dispose of local funds, it has no foreign currency budget. It is thus
dependent either on CBG or on specific allocations from the Ministry of
Finance. This hinders both its ability to make proper provision for, say,
maintenance as well as its ability to undertake improvements or expansion.
The Government has no sympathy with the concept that either the project or
the district has any preferential claim on the foreign exchange earnings
which they generate. The theoretical correctness of this approach overlooks
the practical fact that the project creates its own opportunities for invest-
ment as well as the nascent human infrastructure for its management. There is
therefore considerable frustration both in CBG and, though better hidden, within
OFAB itself.
1/ However, according to the Government there have not been conflicts and
OFAB has always received cooperation from all ministries whose assistance
was necessary for the implementation and continuous progress of the project.



- A.13 -
6.04      OFAB's lack of adequate technical staff led to thetr representation
on the CCC by an expatriate. Although the outcome of CCC activity was satis-
factory, a Guinean would hav., provided a more visible preserce for the owners
as well as continuity of involvement.  The OFAB representaeive moreover either
did not, was not allowed to, or could not carry Guinean suggestions regarding
such matters as the design and furnishing of houses.  The result was a depen-
dence on the Consulting Engineers which while it may have given an adequate
final output, has left the Guineans with the feeling that many things could
and should be better than they are.
6.05     OFAB was also weak on the accounting side, and an expatriate was
recruited to work as Chief Accountant. The recruitment was not successful,
and the accountant was not replaced after he left. The gap remains.
6.06      Consultants (Iribucon) were engaged to assist OFAB ranagement.
Many of their recommendations in tne areas of structure and recruitment,
as well as of training, 'nave been ignored.  The obvious wealmesses on the
accounting side however must be attributed iln scme meacure to the lack
of impact a management a,:counting systemr would have on the OFAB results.
Since they charge CBG for their services at cost, i-i; is importLrit only to
know the cost post facto. There is no visIbib benefit either in pre-
dicting it correctly or in reducing Jt.
6.07     By and large bowever, OFAB is carr-ing out its obligations under the
various agreements covering the project. Relations with the Bank have been
generally satisfactory, although marred bv inadequate reporting and slowness in
correspondence. Much of this can be asc-cibed to the ambiguous political situa-
tion of OFAB which has already been mentioned, and what has resulted in much less
than the autonomy anticipated at appraisal.
7.       Economic Imparc
7.01     Guinea's resources (labor and mine holdings) are being incorporated
into:
(a) the FOB value of bauxite;
(b) capital accumulation at Kamsar and Sangaredi; and
(c)  cash receipts to the Government.
7.02      Alternative employment opportunities in Guinea being scarce, it
will be assumed that Guinean labor is paid well above its opportunity cost and,
therefore, generating some additions to national income. The locally retained
value of the mined bauxite is being incorporated into:
(a) self-reproducing capital transport infrastructure, whose mar-
ginal operating costs and depreciation are covered, and en-
sured by agreement between CBG and OFAB;



- A.14 -
(b)  townsites and servlce8 not covered by agreement between CBG and
OFAB and unable, as of now, to generate sufficient funds for
their simple reproduction;
(c) accumulative human capital, paid above its subsistence levels,
and trained by CBG; and
(d) cash receipts by the Government.
There are also some externalities of scale and urbanization.
7.03      The Bank's intervention ensured an economically efficient allocation
of resources for (a) and possibly for (b) although in this latter case subjec-
tive welfare standards are difficult to evaluate. Maximum benefits have not
yet been ensured for (c) although both human capital accumulation and additions
to national income are small in absolute terms and do not affect significantly
the IRR calculations. Existing physical infrastructure being a joint input
necessarily localized and human capital being almost exclusively tied to CBG
and OFAB activities, the real options for maximizing the benefits of the pro-
ject - not discussed at the time of the appraisal - are now how to allocate
the cash received by the Government, including possible trade-offs with (b)
and (c). Possibilities exist of reinvesting part of this cash surplus in the
Boke region and should yield good returns in both local and foreign currency.
They would help avoid a net long-run depletion of Guinea's national resources
to pay for imports. It can be assumed both that population welfare is an
accepted tenet of the Government's policy and that present physical and human
set-ups will provide some externalities absent in the rest of the country.
These externalities include economies of:
(a) scale of public and private services associated
with relatively large markets in the Guinean context;
(b) urbanization associated with skilled active popu-
lation concentrated in a few areas;
(c) localization of agricultural and water resources; and
(d) easy access to world markets from the port of
Kamsar.
7.04      The secondary economic effects of the project are below their po-
tential even for the current enclave situation. This is largely due to the
lack of success of a farm, which was to supply local food needs, and lack of
enterprise in developing local fishing.
7.05      Little furthermore is being done in the way of disenclavement, either
by building on existing facilities like schools and hospitals, or by rein-
vesting in the area some of the local earnings. Thus, while these facilities
are sufficient for project purposes, the only advantage drawn from them for the
region is in the excess capacity of the hospital, which itself does more to
draw attention to the general shortage of medical services than to satisfy the
need for them. It has about 20% of the capacity required for the immediate area
over the next ten years.



- A.15 -
7.06     The result of this enclave approach is that the regional multiplier
effect of the project i.s small for a project of this size - a local growth
rate of 7 1/2Z Is anticipated as opposed to 5% without the project, though
it must be stated that this growth Is from a much higher base line as a re-
sult of the project.
7.07     The Government would like to treat regional development quite separately
from the implication of the project. While the desire for national control
of the large amounts of money earned is understandable, it seems wasteful not
to build on the human and physical infrastructure which has been created.
7.08     The problems of food, hospital, housing, education and training,
as well as the regional effects of the present policy and the opportunities
of alternative ones, are discussed more fully in Appendix II.
8.        Criticisms by Borrower
8.01     Most of the criticisms by the borrower, whether general or specific,
arise out of dissatisfaction with the Bank's approach to the physical design
of the project. The possibilities lie between two extremes - minimum initial
cost and minimum discounted cost over the life of the project. The latter is
obviously theoretically preferable from the point of view of the borrower,
although it may result in some built in rigidity. There will,nonetheless,
always be a tendency toward the former, the strength of which will depend on
the availability of funds, the creditworthiness of the borrower and the
assessed need for flexibility in development. In the case of this project
that tendency was very strong indeed, and the Bank insisted on considerable
reductions in standards. As will be seen from the discussion of the indivi-
dual complaints below, none of these reductions has affected or should affect
the viability of the project. There has been no risky skimping. Equally,
however, in most cases a higher initial investment would have resulted in
subsequent cost savings. To the extent, however, that the Government is un-
willing, though now able, to make those same investments, the Bank should not
be criticized for not having pre-empted the Government's choice. The incen-
tive to invest, though reduced by the additional cost, is nonetheless rein-
forced by the expectation of further price increases and the unanticipated
size of the returns to the Government. The Bank's choice moreover was deli-
berate and, although this is always arguable in relation to the Bank's
general objectives, policies and restraints, correct. The main requirement
now is to convince the Government that the design of the project was indeed
the outcome of conscious choice, not of negligence or error.
8.02      The problems discussed below do not all arise wholly out of this
"minimum project" concept. Two which do, however, are:
(a) the ship loading facility was originally intended to be part of
the OFAB infrastructure but was transferred to the CBG side as
part of the Bank's economy effort.   As, however, the distinction
between plant and infrastructure is in this project largely
arbitrary (the railway itself could be considered "plant") and
as the inclusion of the conveyor in OFAB's responsibilities
would have added a new dimension to their maintenance require-
ments, this reallocation can hardly be felt to affect the success
of the project; and



- A.16 -
(b) the Bank acted too "commercially" and was more concerned with
the effectiveness of the repayment guarantees than the develop-
ment of Guinea.  Tlhe pejorative tone of this complaint does
not recognize the obligations of the Bank to the money market,
nor the general benefits which flow from good financial disci-
pline. It is impossible for the Bank to lend on the assump-
tion that everything will always go well, and the steps it
takes to protect itself both protects the borrower and insures
that there will be capital available for lending. The current
softness of the aluminium market illustrates how necessary
this type of prudence is.
8.03      Other complaints are as follows:
1. The 800 hp tug is inadequate. This is correct, but it was never
intended that the port operations should rely solely on this tug, although the
consultants contended at least until June 1970 that such reliance was not
unreasonable. A 2,500 hp vessel was to be chartered from Freetown or Dakar,
where maintenance facilities exist. To supply a tug of this size under the
project would have involved the construction of a slipway and maintenance
facilities which could not be justified. Until, however, a larger tug is
available the port operations are jeopardized. Especially now that 60,000-
ton ships are using the harbor, the risk of a ship being stuck across the en-
trance channel with consequent disruption of operations, quite apart from the
danger to the ship itself, have increased. CBG is, however, prepared to
accept this risk (there is a $3/4m wreck removal insurance), and the only
current solution to this problem is to return to the original concept of
charter.
2. The wharf is too short. According to the consultants, the need
for an anchor buoy for the larger vessels was foreseen although it is not
mentioned in their reports of April and June 1970, where it would have been
relevant. It does exist and should be installed shortly. While its installa-
tion makes the second ship waiting position unusable, this position has never
been used and should be unnecessary.
3. The buoy masters vessel is inadequate. In view of the distance
to the harbor entrance buoy(10 miles)and the amount of trouble experienced with
the lights, there is merit in this criticism. The arrangements for putting
matters right are, however, cumbersome. The port (and other) equipment which
OFAB is entitled to amortize in its charges to CBG is individually specified
in the White Book, and provision of improved facilities accordingly requires
CBG approval. It is, however, difficult to envisage a different system which
would adequately protect both parties.
4. The buoys are unreliable and too easily breakable. A lot of
trouble has been experienced with the lights. This is being taken up with the
manufacturers. The decision to use fiberglass instead of metal on the struc-
tural material was to simplify repair. It is impossible to arrive at a "correct"
answer on a point of this sort. The buoy chains are corroding very rapidly.
This is due to exceptional bacterial activity which could not have been fore-
seen and which is being investigated. Under the circumstances the choice of
fiberglass for the buoy structures was perhaps fortunate.



- A.17 -
5. The entrance buoy is very difficult to locate. This has been
shown true in practice. The cure would be to have a radio beacon installed.
This has been mooted for some time. The difficulty appears to lie again in
getting the agreement of CBG to have its amortization included in the port
charges.
6. No workshop facilities were foreseen for the port authority,
there is a lack of hard standing and the warehouse is not very secure.
These are all minor items,some of which are in fact being taken care of out
of the 65% profit, but which are given too much importance because of the
feeling that they too should be covered by the charges. The present split
of profits between CBG and OFAB arising out of the imposition of the export
tax may play its part in reducing CBG's sympathy for claims of this kind.
This applies also to such matters as the fact that only two vehicles were
provided for port operations.
7. There is a shortage of housing. This is correct, but the original
quantity contracted was only intended to cover a third of the final require-
ments. The remainder should be built out of profits. They are in any case
not subject to amortization charges.
8. More local materials should have been used in the housing. The
consultants contend that there are no suitable low cost materials for the type
of housing needed, and that the Villas Sily which are being built to local
designs will be more expensive than comparable accommodation which could have
been provided.
9. The water supply is inadequate. There certainly appears to have
been a mistake in the original location of the water intake. This has since
been rectified. The consultants claim that there would be sufficient water for
present purposes if householders were charged according to consumption. Meters
had been installed in all houses for this purpose, but they are not used. The
consultants also state that quantities of water are being wasted through the
use of the Amecew construction camp. The housing should have been demolished
by now and the temporary piping replaced. Unless tha latter at least is under-
taken soon, matters will deteriorate.
If the site is developed to its full potential,. additional water
supplies will be necessary.   The plant currently uses one-third of the avail-
able amount; and even if this is recycled as planned, there will be a shortage.
This is partly due to planning in the hope that local wells would supplement
the piped supply. This h6pe has not been realized.
10. Power generation and water should have been calculated for the
whole region. This could have been done, but it would have been a different
project; and the IRR would have suffered. Given the Government's current un-
willingness to give priority to local development, extra costs of this kind
might in any case have been politically unacceptable.
11. The hospital accommodation is inadequate. This is only true on
a regional as opposed to project basis, and then the same reply as to (10) above
applies. In addition, the complaint that the hospital was handed over without
knives and forks is evidence of an exaggerated reliance on the contractor.



- A.18 -
12. The port was provided with a fixed crane instead of a floating
one which would now be more usefu], say at Conakry. It was just because of
the temptation to use a floating crane for other purposes that a fixed one
was insisted upon. The future loss through unavailability was judged less
important than the losses which would have occurred had the crane not been
available throughout the construction period.
13. There is inadequate provision for township sanitation. It was
assumed that the same program of spraying and cleaning the drains would be
followed as had proved satisfactory during the construction period. The
equipment, therefore, was all left on site. Once more, it is hard to jus-
tify any additional expense as a charge on the project as a whole. Further
investment in this area would require careful appraisal on the basis of
local costs and benefits, in the light of non-use of the existing equipment,
and other local and national demands for the application of scarce resouces.
14. There has been no provision for recreational facilities. This
is a fair criticism by normal industrial standards. The impact of the export
tax may make it difficult for the Government to get this accepted by CBG as a
project cost.
15. There were insufficient facilities, both in terms of housing
and of office accommodation, during the construction phase. This also appears
well founded.  In a way the delay of contractors (    4.02          ) may have
mitigated it in the early stages, while efforts to catch up exacerbated the
situation later. Either way, the operational requirements of OFAB before start
up appear to have been neglected. The same applies to the human infrastructure
requirements, which resulted in delays in implementation of the management
consultancy for OFAB. This could have been avoided had this consultancy been
made part of the original loan instead of a UNDP grant. The amount of money in-
volved ($500,000) would not have affected the viability of the project.
16. There was no provision for working capital for OFAB. This is not
strictly accurate, although no formal attention was paid to the problem at the
time of appraisal. It was tacitly assumed that the depreciation accounts
would generate sufficient cash, as in fact they do. However, this cash goes
direct to the Treasury, so that the problem, along with that of availability of
foreign exchange, is really an internal one for the Government, except to the
extent that the Bank misjudged the nature of OFAB's autonomy. Both the project
and OFAB might have been better served if the extent of the financial autonomy
necessary for OFAB's efficient functioning had been made explicit.
17. OFAB has no control over the industrial side of the project.
As had been mentioned earlier.( 5.06      ), the form of CBG and of the dis-
tribution of its surplus does nothing to create an identity of interest bet-
ween the owners. Under the circumstances it is difficult to see how OFAB could
be given a more active role in the management of production. It would not, for
instance, have eased the problems, of which there is mutual understanding, of
pay differentials between OFAB and CBG staff.



- A.19 -
18. The Inbucon management consultancy was not extended. This is
hardly a complaint for the Bank, since the decision not to extend the contract
was taken jointly by the UNDP and the Government. The Bank should, however,
have had reservations regardiAg such an extension in any case since many of
the recommendations of the consultants had not, and still have not, been
implemented; as well as because the nature of the extension as proposed by the
consultants did not really meet OFAB's immediate requirements (see also, how-
ever, 15. above).
19. The performance of the consulting engineer was poor. At one
stage during the construction period OFAB had in fact sought to change the
consultants. This should be contrasted with the present readiness of the
Government to re-employ the same firm for another project, the overall
reliability of the cost and time estimates (see 4.11      above) and the lack
of conflict between owners, engineers and the CCC. This does not mean that
there were no difficulties. Problems of housing, water supply, logistics have
already been mentioned. In fact, the major design problems occurred on the
industrial side (e.g., crushers). The complaints here must be largely ex-
plained by poor communication coupled with the mistrust which can easily arise
when the client does not fully understand the nature of the work being under-
taken on his behalf. This will always be a problem where, for instance, the
client has insufficient direct experience of civil engineering contracts. It
cannot be overcome simply by engaging an expatriate consultant, who will find
the same lack of rapport with his employees. It says much for the Guineans
that, in spite of their misgivings, they did stick with the consultants and
saw the construction phase through to a satisfactory completion.
20. The division of profits is unfair to Guinea. This will be
examined here only on the basis on which the criticism was made, rather
than on the larger issues of what is an equitable distribution as between
the investor and the owner of the mineral deposits.
OFAB claims that their exposure is greater than that of CBG since
they invested in the infrastructure and guaranteed all the loan capital.
This is a misunderstanding. In fact, the loan capital is guaranteed by the
Halco partners, the Government merely being required to approve the terms.
The form of the Government guarantees to CBG moreover are only to protect
the other investors in the case of political action. The commercial risk
rests fully with the private shareholders.
OFAB also claims that the infrastructure is not represented in the
calculation of the distribution. This has little basis. Part of the infra-
structure costs are recoverable on amortization charges. The rest, together
with the royalty, are recognized by the fact that the profits are divided
65:35 in Guinea's favor while the relative exposure, counting Halco guarantees,
is about 2:3.
They further claim that this division means that any inefficiencies
in CBG operations are more costly to OFAB than to Halco. This is arithmati-
cally true but merely means that the larger the allocation of profits to OFAB
the greater their interest in efficient operation. This is hardly a matter
for complaint (but see also 8.03.17 above). By the same token CBG has an
interest, albeit a smaller one, in the running of those services which they
pay for at cost, like the railway and the port, and over which they have
even less control.



- A.20 -
These criticisms are quite separate from the question of whether
there will be any profits to divide. This is at least partly a function of
the escalation clause (q.v.) under the operation of which the current cost
of production ($11.9 per ton) is greater than the selling price ($11.45 per
ton). This arises from the fact that the escalation clause did not take note
directly of possible differences between forecast and actual costs, and hence
of the amortization content of the cost. From the point of view of Guinea,
however, this is compensated, probably more rather than less, by the export
tax.
21. It would be unfair to all parties to conclude this section
without saying that the project is viewed by the Government as a model for
the sector.
9.       Complaints of the Consulting Engineer
9.01    Apart from the usual complaints that the owners changed their minds
too often and that the distances between Kamsar, Brussels, Pittsburgh and
the various suppliers and Conakry made communications difficult, the following
seem worth recording for their possible impact on other contracts:
1. The variation order discretion limit of $5,000 was too low.
$15,000 would have been more reasonable in a project of this size and would
have reduced the need for owners approval by 50% in respect of orders in
Europe and 75% in Guinea, with consequent savings in time and administration.
2. The requirement for meaningful international tender reduces the
engineers ability to design fully, especially in the mechanical and electrical
fields. The discretion this allows the bidder and ultimately the supplier is
not necessarily to the advantage of the owners.
3. In view of the number of changes made to the specifications, it
would have been advantageous if more of the contracts had been negotiated on
a unit price rather than a fixed lump sum basis. Changing to unit prices did
in fact save 20% on one of the cable work contracts.
4. Each contractor should be asked to provide a PERT program for
his own work. This would require additional payment but would be worth it for
the extra control. Their individual PERT's would become sub-systems within the
engineer's overall program.
5. The work should have been divided into more, smaller contracts.
This is admittedly based on hindsight. It increases the work and responsib-
ility of the engineer, but also his authority. There is obviously room for
many opinions here, depending to some extent on the engineer and one's opinion
of him. However, a certain amount of disaggregation will help in ensuring
compatability of equipment. This sounds paradoxical. However, one main con-
tractor can shop around for,say, household equipment which he need not specify
by manufacturer in his original bid. The small contractor is more likely to
seek supplies from one source and to specify it. The alternative, to list
items to be obtained from a common supplier, would however also overcome this
problem. It would certainly have eased the maintenance of the household equip-
ment if all the electrical units for instance had been of common manufacture.



- A.21 -
6. OFAB accounting requirements should have been specific at least
from the time of the award of contracts, and OFAB itself should have been
capable of handling accounting inputs from that time. As things stand, the
engineer is still producing and updating the fixed assets register.
10.     Mission Conclusions
10-01   The project is successful.   The economies insisted upon by the Bank
during project design have not adversely affected the results so far. It is
now fully within the ability of the Government to upgrade where it thinks
necessary.
10.02   The economies themselves were justified in the context of Guinea's
credit and the rates of return originally forecast. These were, in part,
higher than they should have been because of the way in which the costs were
concentrated in the last year of construction. This means that the acceptance
of the project was jeopardized by the nature of the sales contract and the way
in which inflation was ignored. This should have a lesson for the assessment
of other projects in the mining sector.
10.03    The way in which the infrastructure has been separated from the mining
venture has effectively removed any incentives for efficiency. The division
of the equity into two distinct categories, as well as the way in which the
Government export tax is levied, reduces those incentives on the mining side
also.
10.04    The project is not being used to foster other local development,
although the possibilities for such development exist.
10.05    The management of OFAB remains weak, and the information base for
improvement is lacking. Its autonomy, moreover, appears to be purely nominal,
much less than was envisaged at appraisal.
10.06    There are plenty of opportunities for misunderstandings but currently
sufficient goodwill to overcome them.
10.07   More attention should have been given to the operational aspects at
appraisal. The earlier provision of technical assistance to OFAB, clearer
definition of its role, better provision physically and financially for its
start up, would have created an easier commissioning period for little extra
cost. They would not have affected the levels of production nor, probably,
the relationship between the Government and Halco, but would have improved
the range and impact of secondary benefits as well as facilitating the prepara-
tion of future projects.



- A.22 -
10.08   Although port capacity appears adequate for the time being, operational
conditions are sufficiently different from the original concept to make it
worthwhile rerunning the computer model. This will indicate the risks and
costs of the present situation, so that decisions regarding the enlargement
of the turning circle (to enable a ship to wait in the harbor) or increasing
the depth of the dredged channel (to enable larger ships to be used) can
be taken in full knowledge of their implications.
10.09    The project raises questions on methods of procurement (4.11, 4.20)
and metnoaology of appraisal (App. I) which are worthy of further study.
Western Africa Regional Office
March 19, 1976



Appendix I
Page one
Rate of Return Calculations (See Attached Table)
The appraisals treated all the costs as occurring in Year 0, revenues
commencing in Year 1. They treated CBG as a homogeneous entity and allocated as
financial benefits to Guinea only its receipts as a shareholder, with customs
duties on imports for instance figuring in the calculations of economic benefits.
The results of these calculations were that the returns to the Government and
to the private shareholders were virtually the same, at about 20%. It is important
to note that not only the rate has changed, but the equivalence has also been
destroyed. This equivalence was itself however illusory, since it arose out of
a purely nominal valuation of the bauxite deposits.
The methodology which will now be used is as follows:
Capital costs will be assigned to the year in which the money to cover
them was raised.  In the case of CBG/Halco this will mean the date of issue
of notes, in the case of Guinea the date of the loan disbursement. This is
correct for the financial rate of return and assumed sufficiently correct
(contractors cost including notional interest) for the economic rate of return.
The returns to CBG and Halco are, moreover, calculated separately.
The returns to Halco are first calculated on the equity, defined for
this purpose as the direct cost involvement of Halco, including the subordi-
nated debt, of $46m treated as fully paid up in FY 1969 (Stream Cl). The
benefit stream consists of (i) dividends (Bl), (ii) dividends (Bl) plus a
transfer price advantage to the Halco members calculated at $1 per ton of bauxite
shipped (B2). The IRRs for these calculations are respectively (i) 13.6% and
(ii) 17.75%. If the transfer price advantage is $2 per ton, the IRR becomes
21.25%.
For CBG the only calculation involves the whole of the external debt
(C2) and the whole of the earnings attributable to either debt repayment or
Halco dividends less cash decreases; additions and improvements to assets being
treated as an expense (C3, B3). The capital costs, moreover, exclude both the
infrastructure which is outside the capitalization, and the valuation of bauxite
"in the ground" which is purely nominal. The IRR is then 7.5%. This is rather
a meaningless figure, given for comparison with the appraisal report 20% only.
Additional calculations have been made, however, to assess the impact
of the export tax. On the assumption that, had the tax not been raised, 35% of
the amount involved (35% of B5) would have accrued to CBG and thence to the pri-
vate shareholders; and 65% would have accrued as profits tax (royalties) to the
Guinean Government; then the returns to CBG would become 12.15%. The corres-
ponding improvement in the returns to the private investors is about a further
3 percentage points under all the assumptions made.
For Guinea, calculations both for financial and economic rates of re-
return have been made with and without the export tax to illustrate the effect
thereof. In the "without tax" calculation, 65% of the tax has been credited back
to the Government as "profits."   The IRR is then (i) 29.95% or (ii) 25.95%.



Appendix I
Ppge two
These figures leave out of account, however, the costs of maintaining
that part of the infrastructure which cannot be charged to operating expenses, as
well as additions thereto, such as the township. These costs were in fact ignored
in the appraisal report. While this is acceptable when calculating the EIR,
since the economic benefit may be assumed at least equal to such costs, it is
not for the financial return. The inclusion of the cost (C4) reduces the return
by about one percentage point, and is more than balanced by the customs and other
cash receipts(part of B6) which should also be included.
For the economic rate of return the appraisal figures for additions to
the National Income other than sales of bauxite (B6) have been added to the above
costs and benefits on the basis that costs have virtually doubled and an overall
shadow price of 50% is fair. This approach is obviously oversimplified, but
the results are insensitive to these kinds of assumptions. The with and without
tax EIRs are then 31.55% and 27.65% respectively, just two percentage points
above the corresponding financial returns.
Much more significant would be the difference made by applying a
shadow price to foreign exchange earnings and valuing the bauxite in the ground.
The appraisal in fact addressed neither of these questions. Although the foreign
exchange question is conceptually the easier, there seems no point in further
boosting the EIR without taking into account the value of the mineral rights,
which being in the form of an economic land valuation would almost by defini-
tion reduce the EIR under all circumstances to the real opportunity cost of
the other factor inputs.
A further significant difference would be made by giving an economic
value to the housing, water supply, medical services; etc. This was also omitted
on appraisal and could account, on the present figures, for anything from 3 per-
centage points upward.
The IRR for the project as a whole (Cl, C3? C4, Bl, B4, B5) is now
22.9%, which is 3.4% above the appraisal rate. This shows mainly that while
inflation affected costs and prices similarly, the fact that the costs were in-
curred at an earlier stage in the inflationary spiral has increased the returns
in current terms. This raises questions as to the validity of appraising in
"current dollars" only.   The comparison between this rate, the 7.5% for CBG and
the minimum 13.6% for the shareholders also illustrates the advantages of high-
gearing in those circumstances.
It is worth considering the implications of all the above on the valua-
tion of the mineral rights. These were entered as $lm on appraisal. If, however,
it is assumed that the investments in general only earn the opportunity cost of
capital, say 10%, then there is a surplus as between the above cost and benefit
streams (present value) of $337m. That is to say, if the mineral rights had been
valued at $337m, the whole project would show a return of 10%. The corresponding
figure for a 15% return would be $131m.
This accretion of value reinforces the requirement for more flexible
arrangements as between investors and Government (see 3 above).      It also gives
some support to the contention of Guinea that it is the major equity holder, but
this neither for the reasons given in 8.03.20, nor on grounds of equity
risk based on these valuations. It does emphasize the problems both of appraisal
and commercial negotiations where the main input is economic land under a regime
of inflation.



COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS - 1969-1993
Data Table
25 Years 5 Cost Streams 6 Benef it Streams
YEAR       C                      C  2       C 3        C 4        B I      B  2     B  3     B 4      B 5      B  6
1969        46                     46         10         0           0        0        0        0        0       0
1970         0                     30         15         0           0        0        0        0        0       0
1971         0                     40         20         0           0        0        0        0        0       0
1972         0                     35         15         0           0        0        0        0        0       1
1973         0                     60         13         0           0        0        0        0        0       2
1974         0                     14         39         0           0        4        0       26        0       3
1975         0                     14         38         0           0        5        0       26        0       4
1976         0                      0          0         5           0        6       16        8       41       4
1977         0                      0          0         5           0        8       19       15       52       4
1978         0                      0          0        10           0        8       19       20       53       4
1979         0                      0          0        10           8        9       31       25       56       4
1980         0                      0          0         2           8        9       39       27       59       4
1981         0                      0          0         2          16        9       40       31       59       4
1982         0                      0          0         2          24        9       40       33       59       4
1983         0                      0          0         2          34        9       41       33       59       4
1984         0                      0          0         2          37        9       42       33        59      4
1985         0                      0          0         2          35        9       42        34      59       4
1986         0                      0          0         2          32        9        39       37       59       4
1987         0                      0          0         2          32        9        38       38       59       4
1988         0                      0          0         2          20        9        38       39       59       4
1989         0                      0          0         2          27        9        27       39       59       4
1990         0                      0          0         2          27        9        27       49       59       4
1991         0                      0          0         2          27        9        27       50       59       4
1992         0                      0          0         2          27        9        27       50       59       4  X
1993         0                      0          0         2          27        9        27       50       59       4
x oS
(b(



Appendix I
Page four
Key to Table   (Cost and Benefit Stream)
Cl.       The cash put up by Halco, either as equity or as loan capital.    This
is $lm less than shown on the balance sheet since it does not, of course, in-
clude the valuation of the mineral rights. It is assumed fully paid up in FY 1969.
C2.       The total cash committed by Halco and its supporters.
C3.       Investments by the Government of Guinea in the infrastructure, inclu-
ding local costs not financed by third parties as well as investments covered
by overage loans from CBG. N.B. This excludes any valuation of the bauxite.
C4.       Estimated costs of improvement and maintenance of infrastructure not
recoverable through charges to CBG.
B1.       Distributions arising out of the direct investment of Halco, i.e. re-
payment of Halco debt and dividends on Halco shares.
B2.       A notional additional benefit to Halco equivalent to $1 per ton of
bauxite shipped. This is in lieu of any attempt to value the "take-or-pay"
agreement, which is otherwise considered as neutral.
B3.       Distributions arising out of the total cash inputs for CBG, i.e. all
repayments and dividends, adjusted for charges in the cash position of the company
but making no allowance for new investments, residual value being assumed as zero
and current value being reflected in the earnings.
B4.       Cash received by Guinea Government either as overage loans, minimum
or actual profits tax, less repayment of overage loans and interest thereon.
B5.       The Guinea export tax.
B6.       Additional benefits to Guinea, corresponding largely to "increase in
Government income" as defined in the appraisal report, plus 50% of local wages
as an approximation of the surplus over real cost (shadow price).



ODM90A0N1E DES BAUXI1TES DE GOINED
Connte Gfir-i Pts InlsIoI d'EpIaItSti s... Et lia        des   -Jr lotion  de Iastato        io   ir                                     SEPTEMBER, 1973
sPo_  n,a'onsan          oun      d n  AP  Ittos r"     ng    tteet
(Tho-and    of US Dollar.)C01D18.
Year  fof ps-antoos                               13         4I         5         6         7        8         9        10        ii        12        13        14       135       16        117       18        19        20    OnnEe deoPloitas--
Fiscal Year Ediog Soptsnise     30               176       1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983     1904       1983     1986      1987      1988      1989      188       1991      1992      1983   A..oA  fil-cal  proton  fir is 30 OSptesbrn
Metal Erode Bnonits 4000W?)                      6,358     8,000     8,150     8,550     9,000     9,011     9,000     9,000     9,00      9,DO 9000     9,000     9,000     9,00 00 9,000  O.09 9.000           ,00      0.00     aztOAainia             (800TH)
CaILnind Gredo Danito (0009ff)                       30   00       100       200      200       200       200       200       200       200       200       20     0 20 200          200       200      200       2008a                 .s na.In.ni  (000Th)
Meta, lGrds B ..it.e9.09ao cl95s 9409t940l5lorg0lqB...It
initialI C..nttanttsll8.05-818.45/M90       9 800912 $ 86 715 9 86,215 9 94.095 9 94,095 0 94,095 0 94,095 9        94,095   9405 94,095         9405$9,9 94940)095 $ 94,095                 95$9,9          94.095 S 94.095     contrat. io'iraaC. $18.05-181.45 TIM
Eopansin Cotaos           19.92-920.32/N0     30.7164   67,0 56   70, 104   70,194    79,240    79,248    79.248    79,248   79.248    71,248    79,249    79.248    79.218    79,248    79,248    79 ,2408  79,248    79,218    Contrat   1'. sna...a. (pS19 92-120 17 T/M
CaIloind Grd     Eol      sa.8o0/N              2,600     8,0        8.000   16.000    16.000    16.000    16.000    16j000    16.000    16.000    16.000   16f000    16.000    16.000    16_000    16.000)   16.1000   16.000  Baaosctacis6         a  80 1il9
TOTAL, REVENUES                               122,026   161,771   164,819   180,199   109,343   169,343   189.343   189,343   109.343   199,343   189,343  169,343   189.343   189,343   189,313   189.343   189,013   1899,343 I0EVE415 TOTAUXS
Cost of Shipsenta                               56,874    62,242    62,906    63,542    67.846    65.476    63.3881   43,800    64,213   66.622     55,527   32,2122   51,579    48.114    47,936,   47.9281   47,920    47,916  Ca0t, de p-ndaotln
Eoport men a, S6.45/MT                          41.193    32,2645   53,9212   56,430    59.340    59.040    59,340    59.340   59.340     59.340   59.340    59,340    59,340    59,340    59.340    39,340    59.340    59,340 Tans Enosso           S.6.-5 T/M
Enpenses 0 Otstde Goi..a                         2,16      2,500     2,500     2,500     2,500     2,100,    2,500     2:0,90     ,00      2,500)    7,500     2,50 I    ,I00     2,500     2,50      2,500     2,500     3,500 ODpes... hors C,1005
Ineet oe(0-srsgs L..n.)                (1,671)   (1,671)   (1.671)   (1,671)   (1,671)   (1,671)   (16712    (1,671)   (.671)     1,6711   i .671)   (1,71)    (1230)      (699)--n--                  --ter-e.o.                        (dpannsrnta de prOse)
lo1tere   Enpeo-                                                                                                                                                                                                                 InsrOt. PayOe
Mtdin. 6Lang Tees Lon-                         13,939    12,732    11,369    10,114     8.687     7,043     5,572     4,572     4,100     3,735     3 211     2,683     2,029       560       520--f--                    --      apronts I iasg em mey-nso
Ra..ol1ing Credit                               2,884     2,884     2,804     2,6864    2,400       480--             --         --       --        --        --         -                   -         -         -         -     Crodin Per annptesian re-a.v.lble
Bankern Aoo.  ta.  ss1.480                                2.190     2,232     2.675     2.609    2J&9.)     2.60   ...&,2600    2          .600  2   .600  2.6   00 2m .600 26G    600     2,600     3,600     2 60      2,600   Annpstln       par Dnq.es
70241  OPERATIlNG EXPENSES                    117,105   133,127   133,400   136,282   140,702   133,769  131.729    131,141   131,083  131,126    121,507  017,674   116,817   2)Jt16    112,696   112,368   102.360   112,356   Z'7T.41 TAUX( D'EXPL1OITATIO9l
I=ca    (Lose ) bofore Nlat Opeoltina                                                                                                                                                                                             aon    (rrs4      vntparse d -pl-asetiny
lescryove                                   4,921    28,644    313,39   43.917     67,641    53,573   57,614    38,202    58,261    58,217    67,836    71,669    77,526    76,927    76,647    76,975    76,983    76,997        sense rpvrA
GotntanProfits Tan                                ---        1974   200       28.546    300967    34,614    57.449    37IA31  jj7370      37.641   46,093    46.585    67.162    50,003    69.821    50.034    50.039    500.92   Ompttgone      oar lenseen
Soorven  end A-Ilnt.ln-     of Ponds                                                                                                                                                                                              Var1atia   ds is sitnatlei-    anor
After Tie   Lones (L.es)                         4.921    16,447    10,986    15,371    16,674    18,751    20.165    20371     20,391    20,376    23,763    25,084   25,006    26,924    26,826~   256,941   26,944    26,945 Reo...     (P-ers)  lapr  tens
Dopreniatlon                       ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~17,783  19,684  20,9264  20,681  21,097  18,3  16,648  107,064   17,691    07,899     8,91 5   9,241     8.615     5,16]     5,000     5000      5.000     5,000   DfprAnlainni
A- atinntinn5,4 3.843                                           3,84 40        3,637     3.633     5,69      5,834     3,820     3,616     3,007     5,796        65        so        35        27        19        1   15   i    Amnrnl-e   et
Ad-. Paymest    (Repuna) B.-ait. Porohamer       9,000    (9,090)    (9.000)  (3,000)Poe--ts ---sin---tons---o)A---erede handle
Dreedoe_                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pr08vn... ts
Onvvlvlg Credst ----CrAdI pa                                                                                                                                                                                                                en,veptatio  r-onos lble
Line of Credit (Ospa--n-)---FaIlisA dn Cr3d15                                                                                                                                                                                                         (rsisharssm-t)
10141, - SOURcES 00 701903         ~~~~~35,547  -35,933  26,090   689      4,0        131      4.3        125      4,6        202      3.3        43 3340-4         32,122    31,053    31,960    31,939    31,960    TOTAL. - 08141NE 015 FONDS
Addistos   so..  .Pinot and Fqqlpeen            10,500)   12,244     6,960     5,0O,00             300       5,0D       .0       5.00      500       5,000     5,00      5,00     3, 000    5,000     5,000     5,D00     5,000   Adds,tsvt  a   lstlein         et   at8r.ll
Advavs6len          lpyest) to Gns               8,71      3,192        (80)  45,3'4"7)  (4, :3'1'  40,959)0 144,9'09)  (5,001h')  55,'0'77) I5065)  (7566)   (8.563)   (9,2 27) (10,717)---                      --       --    A-ansceeeprks A Ia Comicb
Modsnn 6 Lvog Tern Lean Repayssts               17,003    17,441    16,877    16,430    19.923    18,759~ 16,339       7,230     4,600     6,668     4,723     5.703    17,880    3,000     3,000     1,000---r---rR.                     ,srn-   dee.Ptnt i 1n-   tnt    5tno       es
-Icrololg Credit 6 Ts.- Le.e Repa      en         ---       1,900     2,000    7.00 0   15.900     3.000-cv---s---a- ---ep00e--nn veno`P.'v-la6lr
Mlsn... nnsaAse ...      nrscees.                   759    1,582        300       5000      1 34      10  300  3     00       300  3     00       300       300 3      00            500       300      -300       300       300  Aug-nt-rion   d'nstfs dIver
Repayment - Sohrdinatsd Ad-eannee                             -2.000                    2,000     2,0       2,000     2.000     2,000     2,000     2.000     2,000     2.000---0--                      -r--,no                           -tsndsaa       ... dente  -afignri
Redenprion - Preferred Stook6,000- 6.0                                                   ,000     6.0'00    6.000     6,000Ennal--s---e--s--nsl-o__                                                                                                    prligilhesd.
PaY-et     Deferred od Co--nt Dlvid-nd0, --                           --         -        --        000    16,000    26,000    35,000    33,000    30,000   300,090    18,000   34.500    233,000   72.500    26.300    07,500   Psnan4 Svdse              iffiniss   im.n    t.tno
Can.  lonb   e   (O-or...es)                       (968)      714        43     3,505    (3,037)     Ill      (112)     42 23)     223)      159      (103)      jSO)       94j       69       553      160        159     (80     osoaon(dim-sarsni           s   ierle                    2..
TOTAl. - APPLICATOON 07 P531900  35,547   ~~~~~35,973  2.9     3689      4,0       4.11     40,637    41,255    41,688    42,082    36.354    34,590    34.047    32,122    31,053    91.960    31,939    31,960   1TOT0L - UTII.1SATI0   DE  FOODS



COMP4.GK3 DES 6ALXI   S  40766                                670068  I9si
(Tho-ada  o U.S.  lo11n.
oea.oforsretteos    2    ~~~        ~    ~~3 4 $ 68 7  610           Ii   22    1     14    is  16    17   18    19   20    OAid'elttto
rusteD  2i~  aigSpsr3      1     96   17    96    17   L9ll  L904  1482  1993  1964  1989  1986  19'63 1 19B  1969  199  1991  7960  1991  leS. risl ...uIas- t  I  30 S.p-abrs
Mae La                                                                 500  31,500  31,500  31,500  JI  5-01.08 0110  1.08 3I5O.A..40 315031. 183158  1  80 0150  ene  suil  wnsaan0t
lcs. 815036                           6.82 2A6L  2941 1 :,.910  31.00 '  1.500 12.008  72,008  1,0001  21,00  .0 1.080  1,000  1,09 WC   nepelo  prbnos  om 6cao6956cns  to
lancer  Acca Saolc a-9ao ts  Reelnab1eu  1,80  1,00   1,910   1000  1.010  12,5040  32,006                    ,o   1,oo00  3246rW  3CoqIss  I  reornol
Agency- a tltc  o  Coonsa (06200  2808  1,700  1.000 6,9008  1,00  1,~008  31,509  300 100 200  ,0  ,08 I0.  ,,  ,8 ,00  1.0'52t*':Io  ..oo  c9.1--*ph9t0  oo?17
-oSrD.,  nd05515180             .088  1,80  .0   .0    .0    00   .8    00  000   10    10800  1,008  1,00  08  001  1,0  12.001, 100 iaoe
Insmncory                                                                                                     Osvseeelrs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,0  '&';
9aoSS                    045   ,35  250   ,50,.00    250   ,o1   25f  .00  250   2502,00    0513 2,032508,20      2.0   150  ,08   So -t
Oprelt  Sppla  0,08 1000  1,00 1000  1,00  0,0  1,30  .00  0,0  ~ 1000  7,00  000  1.08  0,88 1,08  0,8) 1608o0,00 91 tftospOrI npotao0
Dip  'TneWnle  76565.COeO  ,00 090   .00  200   ,00-                        -     -I-        ---                        -     -    aespyne0aolns41  tpbIqsOr..1'0JOlI  *c
Preal  toeoesendDeneSe   37   24   220   2  00 220   220   1.00 0.-i-.b0  .2-  .3,g945.  .O0 '28 220  28  228   2204,  2.200  0.208  PoSeprS  e Wo. ... dSOt
ToaD ore  sst_5,0               721r  2, 5'5,0    t3J..f     566I305    532  510   5 28 2.65 -tii  2.09 7It   581  ic0-  0440 25  1  TtlOc  ae., Ol stes4046  ea
Finn  atdtootnt  n Cot  19,15  205740  17,54  24,94  22,840 234.40  39.9.  24.941 249 914 254,44  09,94  20,9-  269944  74.14  26,94  28.940 269,44  24,94  29. 86  Intelltlon  cioate,5I4 l9n 7** C945a
less Oonuo,olaOsO  Osprootatlon  33200  41.002 70, 47 9.0001 1.2  13.8  5004 7806  8.3  20203  220I62 :2940  2868 2727 224.  5744 2244 20 4  7 
P_.r6 T,Ld cqist,  8.:1080     3460L 4720  3393  2,22  0,15 8642  6,7  6, 1  5.31 3932  550  3,76 2,63  030  7,00 2,50 -i1   2,58   ets..Nooss6.nEll  *
Osems  osa4092              722   3.48  970  0,5  22032  1650   74,099 1,6  ,4  3.722  -I  -- -   -    -    -     -    -    -  (Frets  Aspsrt
-aootth- 1sing               1.W.t  949  931  919     D   ~ 904  889So 874  959  8440 029  8141799S762 76   270s739  72   799  494  7GrO ssisr  o  l  st
Onspld  ens  andOceagsLoan, ISos  54564  2,65  6,827 66,37  2, 90  6.07  54210  1,30  4,245 41,68  6,13  28030 09,7420,74All   I- --  - InesepeyMaO0eIensetdfpeesest  Os  nlttII:-01  &  4 17n=
.n0t15  shtEpanse       1,01   99500  8080  78  8750      49    42    32    90   18    2    7     5     6MO            -         rse-n a ls O  dettee
Other Assets        508   646   6~~~~~~~208   00 68   0  600   608   608   680  7,UO  60  6 08  6,00  680,  600  5 _01 I00  2D 608  Anre  ct
Total Ases28,3                  2129  7,2  25,34  3622  212,10  108,87   17,2081 24. 213 0 60 18000220 2   9074 7,0_500  443 0,5  54,_05   5494  254.309  AcS  OtnI
loes-eas  Eaoks           25-0                                    -- 77-                --    --         -          --    --  illes py556s 25.667us
Cerrsnt  Loport Ten-9e401t5  2,~~~~914L  204,05  41,188  24.268  224,537 ,91 4 295  4941,  1,  2 49.9.  5.1  5.1  6 . '9.4  26.1  27,1  21.1  24,944  4,9094  74.9145   Tne81as et n 299c9ort  terse P-   '1
Aosnno - Spoblic oh  nlsse  (0710  2,950  1,00  1.008  1000  1,080 1,00 89  15,080  46,160  185023  202000  1220061  02,020  230.020   .28 1.0_0 4,008 5  41. 2680 4 1, 7 13 10 2 1400 Asc  6olqt4  Go-Ie  n
=        Z .....    301,210  29,560  31,256  33,022  45.3692 6214 7.50 7,0 7,30 562  42,698  36,5141  30,9256  38,09 50,23  39,6590 7800,94 3,8  Sn-?ttL. 
EqdlPsand 1, -Tss 6    08,65 1.64,61  147,1693 0130,93 0,6  4,0 5095,92237,12 4699  60,7200           --37 2,0  008  ,8  .8 --   Seitr.  ueg ..  wys  ti
teolot-nC-sdt08.940              37.000  ,3.2S98  ~29.976  2,000  50 -2-3   14--4  1--1-6--4              --    -    --
Total SeOt  241,613  194,420  17t,169  157,292  153,8i 1  99,018  9  59.920  04.682  46,994.0.086  33,583 814 ng  761  76 SJ  31,84370 0,000  4,000   -,- i-1 ...e..tr.7b0-1.
400ac55fin Hano Su. Dbt  0,00 2,00  2000000,00  8,00 4,00 (4000190 807  8,0001.004 2.03802.900  IO-1  --  -4nancns 2.-to2oP- Teti. 2 
C   JsnSol - Clea.      6    9006Z   900  980  9005  47,  907  37(9  000  960 560 ...0.9811.   980   990   83   93    90    0    c:,  rOle,,l
- Cass0       1020 0,00  1020  1,00  1320 1,20   ,s2.,0 '  1112  .00  7020  .02  1,00 1,10  1020 .02  4,28  000  1,20 64.7.D
-,peld T   dN 9 -On-arna   1.08  1508.. 1   2..A9jA9   0.0 -8 ,j0  120 )   13290   1500  .LBO9. 1  000  jn71                      ".I ,0  ~529 lel'r.
Sub-Otal47,00           4,008 47,08  4,000 41,00  0,000 29,00  2,000 00,00  6007,1,00 w   17.7  ___4710  67008  70,0  00',o  07000  1700  1.01 4000 So-o
tae......                      0,002,79    -     --   -                -  - --                    -.    -                          DB ndI- s  teocua  bpen...
1s  tn-  Isir           1488   4,921 14.47:0,8 '1539  I1674  08,75  2016  20o,37  7 31,  00,306  237  500 2.8  69. 2,2  8,0  494 2.4  06496  dn
asly- .PMfldsed            --  .,,,, ,, D65,) 00983 05.73 01,74  1,70  20  65  0.37 BQ)J  (20  370k  3  7439  0      40n  2,873l .  2  30 (661  4205.9   2  40
Tetal 94a.*qlher 98045  32,208  37,621  47.088  47,088  &i,ooo  35.088  29.200  05,000  73990  .7,089  oo,08o  7,00  02.000  7,oor  47,000  17,30o  17.088  I7,20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 17 908  ToocO  Leolteot5D"'.
Ostal I,8abiiotta  end iqotp  9283,35 5261,99 9274,45 9257,34 6208.23 9202,12  9090.84 6170,30  9049,20  8177.60  6101,00  9 95,72  907,905  65.0,'  5.833  654,658 904,888  ~ 844 9 $4,89  7,-te  Passit96 Cep -Ies Propr.



Appendix II
Page one
SECONDARY EFFECTS AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1.        Ancillary   Services and Townships
Food
One of the main drains on the economic benefits of the project
results from the failure of the OFAB farm to provide enough food for the
Kansar population. Food has instead to be imported from various origins
at a cost of US$1.53 million in 1974, US$1.76 million in 1975, and an
estimated US$2.02 million in 1976. These imports comprise rice (61% of
total cost), oil (11.5%), milk (11%), sugar(8%), tomatoes (3.5%), soap
(2.5%) and onions (2%) at an average cost of $125 per person per year.
Food was also supplied free FOB by PAM (World Food Program) but admin-
istered by the farm management, at an estimated value of US$6 per person
per year. These supplies amounted to about US$72,000 per year until 1975,
when they were discontinued.
The relevant population has almost doubled, from 8,375 by end
1973 to about 16,000 estimated by end 1975, but is not expected to grow
at more than 5% per year in the future even when account is taken of a
limited expansion of CBG-OFAB services, and the natural increase of the
mostly young Guinean population living at Kamsar. Cost of food imports,
however, has been growing at 15% per annum and will go up even more rapidly
due to effects of expensive fertilizers, unreliable harvest and inflation-
ary cost increases in the world food markets. Before any practicable food
scheme is implemented in Guinea, food imports for Boke will reach US$2.5
million in 1973 at 1975 constant prices, the earliest date by which local
production could have any impact.
The farm at Kolaboui, managed by OFAB, started operations in 1973
and has been supplying food at the rate of US$107,000 equivalent per year -
less than 6% of requirements. It employs 210 people, has four tractors and
includes 80 ha for rice and 20 ha for potatoes, tomatoes, manioc, etc. It
has run through a series of misfortunes and difficulties: lack of spare
parts for equipment, epidemics which have killed most of the chicken stock,
disease which destroyed vegetable crops, and deficient or non-existent farm
management techniques. It now fights against many adversities, and putting
it on the right foot will need energetic Government action and substantial
technical assistance. In physical terms, amounts annually supplied per
person in 1975 were only: 1.67 eggs, 1.78 kg of meat, 1.54 kg of fish and
0.08 kg of vegetables. In exchange terms, prices as fixed by Government
prevent private farmers from growing and marketing any product beyond amounts
necessary for subsistence. The only exception is egg production, officially
priced at Sy 60 per dozen; this would be attractive enough for private and
OFAB farms were it not for the high cost of inputs. High priced imported
inputs and low exchange official values explain not only general food scarc-
ity but also why most workers' families continue cultivating land at their
allotment to feed themselves.



Appendix IT
Page two
One of the most unfortunate failures of the Food Plan was the break
down of the old fishing boat provided, with technical assistance, by Dutch aid.
Normal supplies of fish to Kamsar ceased in April 1975. Fish is officially
priced at Sy 15-24/kg depending on quality, which barely covers variable costs
of fishing. It sells for Sy 133/kg (US$6.5/kg) in the parallel market; this
is a measure of the great importance demand attached to it. No private indi-
vidual, however is allowed to sell fish above the official price and very few
fishermen venture to break the law. A fishing boat of sufficient capacity
to provide at least three kg of fish per year to every one of the 20,000
people living in Kamsar by 1980 should average catches of .2 ton/day. Assuming
an investment cost of US$.2 million and yearly operating costs of US$.07 million,
purchase of such a boat would be paid off in financial terms in four years
at the opportunity price of Sy 55/kg (that of meat, the closest). Even if
selling prices continue to be controlled by Government below this level, re-
suming fishing operations is of the highest financial and economic priority.
The most important and encouraging development taking place in the food
sector is the intensive rice cultivation initiated in 1975 with the help of
local brigades working in each one of the 400 county areas and composed of
one agricultural engineer, one tractor driver, one technician and five or six
workers. Each of the brigades are supposed to be supplied with a tractor
and fertilizers. There are 15 brigades in Kolaboui cultivating 1,050 ha of
rice and 600 ha of potatoes. Objectives are to reach one ton of rice per ha
by 1977. Government will distribute the production from official centers.
Surpluses will be allocated to brigades and villages in proportion to their
output. Those surpluses will then be exchanged against machinery and, even-
tually, consumer goods. Exchange values to be applied to the surpluses are
not known; they will be of paramount importance to ensure the success of the
scheme.
Hospital
As part of the project, a hospital with 60 beds and elementary
medical and surgical equipment was built in Kamsar at a cost of US$1.8 and
US$1.4 million equivalent for buildings and equipment respectively. The
hospital presented some construction deficiencies - it is not rainproof; x-rays
and anesthetic equipments are not standardized, are old, even obsolete, often
of unknown suppliers and lack spare parts. Surgical equipment is of poor quality.
Some problems are being corrected but, in the absence of a Government allocation,
most supplies have to be financed by and applied for through CBG's purchasing
office in Brussels with subsequent delays. The hospital is operated by OFAB.
There is another hospital in Sangaredi built and operated by CBG with the ex-
ception of a doctor paid by OFAB. The Kamsar hospital started operations in
1973 and attracted soon not only the Kamsar population but many patients, prin-
cipally for epidemic and pediatric treatments, from as far as Gaoual. The other
hospital in the Boke region, located in Bokf with a capacity of 200 beds, is
obviously insufficient to satisfy the growing needs and expectations of the
region's population estimated at about 180,000 by end of 1975. The Kamsar hos-
pital, operating also as a clinic, receives patients from:
(a) CBG - OFAB site covered by health insurance arrangements
from which the hospital receives most of its revenues; and



Appendix II
Page three
(b) public services in the Boke area covered by national socia:F
security schemes.
Other private patients pay an advance fee before admission but often fail t-o
pay fully for the cost of services rendered. According to data given to the
mission, the Kamsar hospital treated in 1974/75 about 3,900 patients per month
(10% of surrounding population). Hospitalization by extraordinary arrangements
and working three shifts per day was 2,230 bed-days per month, well above the
maximum theoretical capacity of 1,800 bed-days per month. Maternity patients
are now discharged 24 hours after delivery. The hospital is Operating at an
annual cost of about US$544,000, 20% for food, 46% for medical products and
equipment, and 33% for staff, Average cost per patient is now about US$22,
60% of which are fixed costs. In 1975 there were ten doctors (6 expatriates),
29 other medical staff (4 expatriates), and 92 general staff to service all
patients. Graduates from Guinean medical schools are not sufficient to satisfy
the growing needs of Kamsar and other hospitals.
The Kamsar hospital, as the only and often cheaper alternative to that
in Boke, is fostering an irreversible demand for its services. This is certainly
resulting in economic benefits for its area of influence, but it is also putting
an unbearable pressure on staff and equipment; the hospital is now functioning
well above the objectives initially set. Hospital officials reckon that satis-
factorily to treat expected demand for the next years, 200 beds would be needed.
With an average occupancy of 72% over the year, they would provide 4,320 bed-
days per month, sufficient to absorb the demand through the mid-1980s, at the
high average annual rate of 7% as a result of the increases in population,
living standards and expectations of better medical care. To cover satisfac-
torily the population of 85,000 estimated in the Kamsar-[olaboui-South Boke area
in the next decade, at least 20 doctors and 100 other medical staff will also be
needed. If 8,000 patients were to be treated per month in a larger 200-bed
hospital, economies of scale in construction and operation would permit a sub-
stantial reduction of cost per patient to about US$15/20 at 1975 prices. Whether
the Government attaches priority to such an undertaking or not is a question well
beyond the normal operation of the Kamsar site and should be seen in the context
of a vast and more ambitious plan for improving living standards in the Boke region
Housing
The Bank insisted in cost reductions, particularly in housing and ser-
vices. Housing was trimmed substantially and ancillary services and leisure
activities eventually eliminated. The Government and OFAB have criticized what
they term as lack of sensitivity towards non-work activities. In Batafong's
pumping station 38 workers have to be transported daily to and from Boke at an
annual cost of US$11,000.
(a) Kamsar
About one-fourth of CBG/OFAB Guinean employees and their families
were housed in Kamsar by end-1975:



Appendix IJ
Page four
Housed              Not Housed            Total
G       E      T       C      E     T      C      E       T
OFAB City    195      30    225    646     -    646     841     30    871
CBG City      -      384    384     _            -       -     384    384
Total   195    414     609    646     -    646    841     414  1,255
C = Guinean; E = Expatriates; T = Total.
The 266 OFAB houses in Kamsar were built according to five types:
Type                A         B          C         D         E      Total
No.                  1        15        25        98        127      266
------------ (unit costs, US$ equiv.) -------------
Foreign          65,000     34,091    21,330     7,080     4,370    8,866 (average)
Local, equiv.     15,00     12_,2      9,020     4,55      2,700    4,566 (average)
Total          80,000     46,338    30,350    11,635     7,070   13,432 (average)
US$ million       .080      .695      .759     1.140      .899    3.573      -
Local amounts correspond to local manpower costs for erection.    Total costs are
at 1973 prices and include interest during construction through October of the
same year. Exchange rate used for conversion is Sy 21.0 = US$1.0. No expat-
riates are housed in types D and E houses. OFAB tenants repay the foreign ex-
change cost of the house over 33 years; their monthly payments amount to Sy 250
for E-type houses and Sy 450 for D-type houses. Annual revenues for OFAB from
this source are only US$77,000. Minor improvements, at an average cost of US$570
per house, are being introduced in D- and E-type houses. Fifteen more houses at
an average cost of US$6,000 are being built for instructors.
(b) Sangaredi
The city of Sangaredi was originally designed to house a staff of about
530 for railway and mine operations at a yearly production level of 9 million tons,
including OFAB and public services staff. Only 285 houses had been built by CBG
and OFAB by end-1975 when the population of the area was about 4,000 including
1,400 peasants and cattle farmers attracted to the area by hospital and other
facilities. Qualified workers for the mine come mostly from Conakry (50) and
unskilled workers from Boke (150), Snagaredi (50) and Lakoure (100). OFAB was
supplying 2,650 rations at the end of 1975, corresponding to the 530 families
with an average of 5 persons per family. The general living standards in the
area are now reduced by dust from the mine; dryness has also caused many fires
in houses made of wood and straw. There are not enough places for the school
population of about 435. Hygienic and sanitary conditions are deteriorating,
and scarcities are a source of tensions. A serious railway accident was caused in
1975 by tired locomotive drivers living in Sangaredi. The most important is the



Appendix II
Page five
social split created by provision of housing:
Hotused          -Not lHouised           Total
C       E       T      c     E     1'     C       E      T
OFAB City /     41       -      41     23    -     23      64     -      64
CBG City/2       4 /3   240    244    222    -    222     226    240    466
Total      45     240     285    245    -    245    290     240    530
/1  Types D and E.  Included in the project.
/2 Tynes R, C, D and E. Not included in the project.
/3 For public service employees.
Education and Training
There are 1,079 people of school age in Kamsar, and 455 in Sangaredi.
According to OFAB administration, only 58% of them, or 890, can now receive edu-
cation in 30 place classrooms, of which there are 21 in Kamsar and 9 in Sangaredi.
Steps are being taken by OFAB to improve the situation, notably by building more
classrooms and by introducing a two-shift system. Vocational and professional
training was carried out in an Institute of Professional Training at Kamsar,
in CBG and OFAB themselves, in Government's technical schools at Conakry and
other places, and in bauxite industries abroad. Between 1969 and 1975, 907
students were trained and one-third of them joined CBG/OFAB services. Training
is now at a standstill   while a presidential decree declares that all projects
have to be Guinean managed when reaching the operational stage. Professional
training, moreover, depends either on Government institutions outside Kamsar
with final employment other than CBG/OFAB; or on CBG training which, affected by
a tight money policy, is not satisfying OFAB expectations. OFAB itself lacks
the budget and the expertise to run any major training program. To the extent
that CBG training does take care of its own needs, the degree of Guineazation is
a matter of time. Other training, however, should be undertaken if and when the
Government decides to lAunch a possible regional development plan.
Foreign Exchange Transactions
Food imports financed by CBG in US$ are repaid by OFAB in Sylis. CBG's
$3m dollar equivalent local wage bill is thus covered by $2m equivalent repaid
by the Government for food and $lm purchases of local currency. OFAB has no
foreign exchange of its own. All dollar payments made to it are immediately
converted into Sylis. It is thus unable to make any foreign purchases without
going through cumbersome exchange control procedures, which explains its re-
liance on CBG for such purchases which it repays in Sylis. Problems could occur
if, as a result,CBG found itself with a surplus of Sylis. There would then be
an incentive for CBG to process OFAB orders only at a rate compatible with its
foreseeable local currency requirements.



Appendix II
Page six
The official exchange rate of Syli has decreased by about 10% compared
with the US$ over the last four years. Guinea's overall balance of payments has
been in surplus since 1973; earnings of the project after 1974 have been instru-
mental.
II.        Economic Impact and Indicators
Project Definition
Because the project was conceived as an enclave project, many secondary
effects evoked at the time of appraisal have appeared but have not been fully
internalized in the Kamsar-Kolaboui region to reach the maximum multiplier effect.
The most important is local production to substitute for food imports that would
have had an impact for the region as it would have brought in investments, would
have generated value added of agricultural production and its industrial trans-
formation, and would have initiated the subsequent multiplier effects. Food
production is also important for the national economy since food imports for
CBG staff are now, and will continue to be, financed out of Government's revenues.
Other secondary effects were neither considered at appraisal nor internalized.
Further vocational training and industry-related workshop production, education
and health services, and physical supply of sites and services could have been
important sources of additional benefits for the region.
Regional Impact
Table A shows a gross estimation of the project's multiplier effect
through regional net domestic product in the Kamsar-Kolaboui area, excluding
capital formation in CBG, port and railway assumed to belong to non-regional
economies.
The multiplier effect of the direct and secondary effects
of the project in the period 1970-1975 is somewhere between 1.4 and 2.3. For
the period 1975-1985, if import substitution and other projects are not imple-
mented, the multiplier effect will drop to around 1.20. Both values are low if
compared with other underdeveloped areas. There are two reasons for the dramatic
decrease, in any case, of the multiplier effect in the immediate future: the first
is that once the bulk of the infrastructure, sites and services was built and ex-
panded in the early 1970s, their operation no longer contributes to the development
of the region as much as it does to the Government's revenues; the second is that
new development projects oriented to interregional export will not start to be
implemented, if ever, before the late 1970s or early 1980s. In the meantime the
marginal propensity to consume of the mostly industry-working Kamsar population
will increase at the expense of the marginal propensity to export. Kamsar risks
becoming not only a problem-ridden urban settlement but the center which will eat
up the scarce resources of the area and will incorporate them into exported baux-
ite and Government revenues.
As a result and since the initial impact of the construction of Kamsar,
port and railways, has already taken place, the disposable income of the region
will not increase as fast as in the past, and percapita consumption will also
decelerate (see Table). Migration will continue as news spread about urban facili-
ties and amenities; health care and education are important cases in point. Most
benefits accounted for during appraisal have    accrued to the national economy.



Appendix II
Page seven
The question remains how the further development of the Kamsar-Boke region could
be fostered on the basis of existing economic and spatial structures.
The economic and spatial set-ups
One of the problems created in the short run is the momentum gained by
immigration to the Kamsar area in the wake of construction of ports, railway
and bauxite facilities. Previous plans failed to recognize that, once the pro-
ject was in operation, Kamsar would be the only area in Guinea to:
(a) have, besides Conakry, a multipurpose port, railway, road, in-
dustrial employment, hospital and urban sites and services; and
(b) be surrounded by a relatively idle and populated area reaching
as far as Gaoual (see Map).
Similarly to other developing areas in the world, population in the Kamsar-
Kolaboui region increased four fold over 1965/1970 and 50% over 1970/1975.
Urban population in the whole Boke region increased also dramatically between
1965 and 1975, growth varying from 70% for Bokg to six fold for Kamsar, indi-
cating for the first a certain degree of urban maturity at that stage of develop-
ment and for the second an increase proper of newly created cities. l/    The
immigration and urbanization process has not been accompanied by:
(a) developing the export base;
(b) internalizing surpluses in the region;
(c) developing a supporting service sector; and
(d) increasing welfare standards.
As it stands now, population increases in the rather inactive Boke-
Kolaboui-Kamsar region risk to create a poverty area in Kamsar surrounding a
practically foreign space, the CBG domain where CBG is carving out is political
and economic sphere of influence within the limits of the new Kamsar. Private
and spontaneous initiatives are showing at the local village of old Kamsar, with
weekly markets, cinema and other amenities, but its survival depends on purchasing
power of the CBG domain. The issue of further development may be mistaken as a
power struggle within Kamsar between Guinean Central Government, local Government,
and CBG. Many OFAB officials held the ill-founded belief that the development of
the region, and Kamsar in particular, depended on gaining influence over economic
decisions to be taken by CBG; the recent Government decision of increasing bauxite
export taxes may have influenced to a certain extent the atmosphere of competition
between CBG and OFAB. The real issue is not only to dispute the power over eco-
nomic and physical domains, however important they may be, but to create new
spheres of influence. Only the Government can do that, and the structure of the
region is remarkably well suited to do so.
1/ In Spain the highest growth over 1920/1970 was 120%. In Mexico there was a
three fold increase over 1940/1970. In Yugoslavia increases were 30% over
1960/1970.



Appendix II
Page eight
The almost straight line Kamsar-Kolaboui-Boke, of about 50 km, has
manageable dimensions and complementary economic structure and resources.
Secondary, primary, and tertiary economic activities exist in that straight
line, localized respectively in the three urban nodes which should be the
framework of the future development of the region. Statistics are not avail-
able; but on the basis of casual observation confirmed with conversations with
the Government, Kamsar tends to specialize in industry and services, in that
order; Kolaboui in agriculture and agroindustries; and Boke in services, having
housed so far the highest population levels in the region. Agriculture is the
inter-regional export base. The Government has recognized this potential by
launching (as part of an ambitious country-wide program) a plan for intensive
cultivation of rice and potatoes in the Lolaboui region. This and farm produc-
tion should replace foreign exchange now spent by OFAB to import food for CBG
staff and families. Those foreign exchange savings, in turn, should be used
to purchase equipment to sustain agriculture and transformation of its products
in the Kamsar-Kolaboui area. Labor-intensive agroindustries, although not at
the most efficient scales in a world-wide comparison, could benefit anyway
from the potentially large labor and consumer markets and their remarkably good
location in the region. Goods could flow at a low cost by road from Kolaboui to
Kamsar and Boke, and certain labor specialization could be found around Kamsar,
so far the only dynamic growth pole in the area.
The Future Strategy
Since the initial impact in the Kamsar-Kolaboui region of the Boke
project will be fading out through the end of the decade, the Government should
proceed with a regional action plan if growth is to continue beyond 1980 and
the welfare of population is to be increased. Since the dramatic urbanization
trends of the early years of this decade will continue in Kamsar and Kolaboui,
there are two urgent sets of projects to be initiated as soon as possible:
(a) food imports, now costing about US$2.10 million per annum to the
national economy should be replaced by fostering offshore fishing
in Kamsar and food production in the Kolaboui farm. Avoiding the
present food imports would econamically justify investments amount-
ing to about US$15 million in a fishing boat, fish processing
equipment (cutting, freezing and packing), tractors, spare parts,
fertilizers, pesticides, technical assistance, warehouses, and
pick-up lorries for local delivery. This should be by far the
most important part of the action plan for the development of the
region;
(b) as part of the Government's nation-wide strategy of capital accum-
ulation through agricultural production, a plan should be launched
in three stages:
i) identification of resources (i.e., rice, oil palm trees,
coconuts, etc.);
ii) location of agricultural production and transformation in-
dustries; and
iii) relocation to rural areas of part of the labor force now
attracted to the urban centers around Kamsar and Boke.



Appendix II
Page nine
Investment amounts cannot be quoted at this stage. An important feature of this
plan should be avoiding as soon as possible the irreversible concentration of
population in slums around Kamsar and Boke. Another would be to introduce a
realistic set of exchange values between inputs and outputs of agricultural pro-
duction.
Once the plans for fishing and agricultural production are initiated,
two additional projects should be undertaken:
(a) since the economies of Kamsar, Kolaboui and Boke will be comple-
mentary, economies of specialization should be obtained by estab-
lishing efficient and relatively cheap transport and communications
between the three centers. Road connections to larger markets
should be improved to benefit from economies of aglomeration. The
roads Kolaboui-Boffa-Conakry and Kamsar-Boke, with present ADTs
between 100 1/ and 200, respectively (see map), should at least be
properly maintained to accommodate the increasing traffic between
important centers of economic activity. Also, public transport
at marginal cost between Kamsar and Boke should be provided to
benefit from certain specialization and avoid premature population
concentration in Kamsar. A total amount of US$5 million may be
required for this purpose for purchase of maintenance equipment,
road vehicles, spare parts and workshop equipment; and
(b)  the f;'ture economies of specialization and urbanization in the
three main economic centers should be guided and impelled by set-
ting up general and vocational training centers in Kamsar (mechani-
cal workshops), Kolaboui (agricultural training) and Boke (higher
education and services ). A total amount of $2 million would pro-
vide enough training facilities for a total population estimated
at 80,000 in 1980 and a total active population - in the age brac-
ket 16 to 50 years - estimated at 32,000.
Finally, once the spatial and economic strategy of the region is de-
fined, social services should be provided to the hopefully optimum allocation of
economic activities and active population. Among others, there should be improve-
ments in health services in Kamsar at an approximate cost of $4 million to reach,
by stages, a capacity of 200 beds in the hospital by 1980; and sites and services
for about 10,000 families at a total cost estimated at $15 million ($1,500 per
family plot). Those projects, however, are not related to the short-run growth of
the region but to the long-run welfare of the population.
The Bank should suggest to the Government an initially unbalanced growth
plan on the basis of specialization on exploiting the available natural resources
as revealed by the inventory suggested above. The Government might otherwise
intend to launch an overambitious, balanced-growth plan, spreading too thin the
scarce human resources available. The Government appears to be receptive to devel-
opment plans of this type, more with the intention of receiving assistance than of
allocating funds itself.
1/ Source: Regional Governor, modified by mission to take account of ferry capacity.



Appendix TI
Page ten
GUINEA
Gross Estimati.on of Multiplier Effect Through NDP
Kamsar-Kolaboui Region
A. Population Projections (0OOs)
1965       1970         1975       1980
Kamsar                          4         20          25          30
Kolaboui                        2                       8         10
Boke                           ?0                      35         40
130
Other                          79         93         110
Total Boke Region             105        148         178         210
1/  Table 1.  Economic Trends and Prospects in the Republ.ic of Guinea, Vol. II.
2/ Figure provided by Guinean officials.
3/ Mission's projections.



Appendix II
Page eleven
B. Estimation of Net Domestic Product (NDP) in the Kamsar-Kolaboui Region
1970      1975       1980 (estimated)
Consumption US$ million, 1975 prices.
2/        5/          9/
Food                                     .50      1.84        2.30
6/         10/
Health                                    -         .54       1.62
7/         7/
Education                                 -         .45        .70
3/        3/          3/
City Services                            .20        .33        .54
1/
Repayment of Capital
8/         8/
Hospital                                            .48        .48
4/        4/          4/
Sites and Services                       .80        .80        .80
Total, US$ million                      1.50       4.44       6.44
Population, 000s                       25         33         40
Regional NDP, US$ per head             60        135        161
Consumption, US$ per head              28         96        129
1/  Savings of Guinean salaries beyond purchases of houses in Kamsar are assumed
to be nil. Accumulation in human capital is accounted for in eduration (7).
Value output of buildings, etc. (rent) assumed equal to repayments.
2/ $125 x 4,000 population supplied by OFAB. Food imports are included as trans-
fers from Central Government. Other food consumed is not accounted for as
considered for self-subsistence.
3/ Net value added of $1,125 per staff employed (175 in 1970, 297 in 1975, and
480 in 1980 to reflect an almost doubling of population living in Kamsar).
4/ From Appraisal Report, May 28, 1971, PTR-48a, Table 12.
5/  Imports = $1.76 million; Farm production, value added = $.107 million; PAM
$.072 million.
6/  Operating costs = $.544 million.   These costs are taken as proxies for value
added.
7/  Value added by 60 teachers at $1,125 each = $67,500; 29 buildings at $6,000
each x 15% = $26,100; other = $6,400.   Total = $100,000 per annum.   Plus: in-
creased salaries and performance of 303 trainees in 1975 and 400 in 1980 at
$1,000/student and year (15% of average salary). There are another 890 stu-
dents in 1975 (one per three families) and 1,380 in 1980 whose accumulation of
human capital is not accounted for.
8/ Capital costs: US$3.2 million x 15% social return = $.480 million/year(at 1973
prices).
9/ $125 x 18,000 population supplied by OFAB.
10/ $17.5/patient x 8,000 patients/month.



Appendix II
Page twelve
C.  Income Mu]tiplier Effect nssiumllg Lhnt NDI' would have grown at 5% p.a.
without project beyond 1970, and only sites and services would have been
developed:
6            6          5
1970/1975 = $4.44 x 10   / 1.50 x 10  x (1.05)  = 2.32 = an extra 18% p.a.
6            6          10
1970/1980 = $6.44 x 10   / 1.50 x 10  x (1.05)  = 2.637 = an extra 10% p.a.
1975/1980   2.637 / 2.32 = 1.14 = an extra 2 1/2% p.a. (on the 1975 figure).



1d  T0Or,ictr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2~~~~~~~ ~IBRD                                            2459
z d X o   l u E l r   ll4   _  ro D uki   5   E   N  E  LK A                                     l SEPTr MB  176
, ALGERIAK                      r LIBYA  n r .  Yo urlroonkoun
)NIGER A/ CHAD
N  FIA  C                                                                                                                ootcr QE2 
ATAN I   OC A   _,                                                                \ \ /9       l   g OA                           K          a f
A~~~~~~~~~~~~AT                                                                                                                            To Orirossoria  1
i         ~    KDgOn            jl)              \4td      _         * a    ; D ngOn  e  za  g LgU
KZ      (4      (1no0~-Al200
At/antic       ~   -              :              +                                                                           9SC/
BOKE BAUXITE PROJECT                  eeo    n                                           &,             ssou0                       t              'o
SPATIAL_STRUCTURE OF BOKE REGIONV-               _   prIn                                                                                t 
ADT  AuetsgO DailyWraHic I t<jX,  2  /l  Rpeti1                           Da
( 1 2 0 )   1 S7 4 ,  a p p r o tn n a t a   R o p ul l t i o n f lr                             GX            ; ) M o e n c ( t |_ 
iProject or   p .ve*r
-  Project nroads Igrwsol end eeettr)  e                                          )   9    i               BeredoA        t           !
Other first rateory roads       oS  v                                                      j                &      lW      \\          'v        C)
   -  Roads under conottocto<, ILOMIR5             0  20  40.  1   0  00  20 8-
-8       -r--r--,  Reolroadt                                0     20    40    60     90   100      i                              /                  /        t)
+-  -+ Propossd Ttore-Guimne- tllrod       '                      MIlE5j                          L I    E  R IAKin(
-RiFers                                                                                                                                   e .dNgZerekore
+ Ittstnseio=nal aitport t i /-t,.ij
Regularly setnceod sietieldo                 CS /  ,                                                               omu   /   v  t + 
'--I tetnOlioflul boondatie,                   J  ' e                                                                        )t / RT4oM0fl0vio jT2Abidjtin
REP UoBnLICs  o  o  tu me v  do m'-II  /                                                            one
14'     lortdffarauetdilraf0ereot        I ..            .JoMo tXrovia                                                      )  8.



