                                     Documento f
                                   The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                   ReportNo. 27774




   INTERNATIONALBANKFOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                             PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                 FOR A PROPOSED

           PUBLIC SECTORMANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                    INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$30.0MILLION

                                          TO

          THE FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA



                                    MAY 13,2004




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagementUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region



This documenthas arestricteddistribution andmaybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe
performance oftheir official duties. Its contentsmaynot otherwisebedisclosedwithout World
Bank authorization

THEFORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OFMACEDONIA-PUBLIC SECTOR
           MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN



                    CurrencvEauivalents
            (Exchange Rate Effective February 3,2004)

                    Currency Unit =Denar
                          1Denar =US$0.02
                            1US$     =48.69 Denar




                   Government FiscalYear

                    January 1-December 31




                    Weights andMeasures

                         Metric System




                               2

                                                           FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                 AbbreviationsandAcronvms

          CFAA   -   Country Financial Accountability Assessment
          CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review
          CSA        Civil Service Agency
          EBF    --- Extrabudgetary Funds
          EU         European Union
          HIF    --  Health Insurance Fund
          ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
          IMF    -   International Monetary Fund
          LCS    - Law onCivil Servants
          LLSG       Law on Local Self Government
          LPP        Law on Public Procurement
          MA         Pharmaceutical Marketing Authorizations
          MLSP   ----MinistryofLabor and Social Protection
          MOF    -   MinistryofFinance
          M O U      Memorandum of Understanding on Pharmaceutical Procurement
          NATO   --  NorthAtlantic Treaty Organization
          PDF    - Pension andDisability Fund
          PEIR       Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
          PIFCS      EUPublic InternalFinancialControl System
          PSMAC      Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
          SA0    ----State Audit Office




                                               3




This documenthasa restricted distributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

             THEFORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OFMACEDONIA
             PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENTADJUSTMENT LOAN

                              LOANSUMMARY




Borrower:                  Former Yugoslav Republic o fMacedonia

Amount:                    Bank Loanfor US$30Million

Terms:                     Single currency loan at the Bank's standardLIBOR basedinterest
                           rate, with aproposed 5-year graceperiod and a 17year maturity.
Commitment Fee:            Bank's standardcommitment fee of0.75 percent onundisbursed
                           loanbalances, beginning 60 days after signing,less anywaiver.
Objectives andDescription: The proposed adjustment loan is one o f a series of adjustment
                           operations aimed at improving public sector management in the
                           FYR Macedonia. It is based on a public expenditure and
                           institutional review (PER) prepared during 2000 and a more
                           recent Country Financial Accountability Assessment and Country
                           Procurement Assessment Review. The loan will pursue five
                           major areas o f reform: (i) formulation, to increase the
                                                        budget
                           usefulness o f the budget as a strategic policy instrument and
                           ensure that the Government i s capable o f formulating a budget
                           within macroeconomic constraints; (ii)budget execution to
                           strengthen the Treasury's control over spending commitments
                           andextrabudgetary funds; (iii) to establish an intemal audit
                                                           audit
                           department in the Ministry of Finance and units in other key
                           Government agencies, and strengthen the State Audit Office's
                           ability to focus on highrisk entities; (iv) procurement to support
                           the enactment o f a new procurement law and the creation o f a
                           specialized procurement bureau in the Ministryof Finance; and
                           (v) civil service, to create a mechanism to enforce civil service
                           hiring requirements and introduce a uniform, decompressed
                           salary structure for civil servants. In addition to these cross
                           cutting management reforms, the operation will support specific
                           reforms in the health sector, including improvements in the
                           internal control system o f the Health Insurance Fund and in the
                           procurement o f pharmaceuticals. Through linked donor-support,
                           the operation will also support technical assistance and policy
                           studies aimed at improving the administration and targeting o f
                           health insurance subsidies,      pension contributions,     social
                           assistance, andchild allowances.



                                        4

Benefits:                  The benefits o fthe reforms will include the maintenance o f
                           macro andfiscal stability through improvedbudget planningand
                           financial controls. This will better equip FYRMacedonia to cope
                           with external shocks andprovide the basis for economic growth.
                           Byreducingopportunities for the misuseo fpublic funds, reforms
                           inauditingandprocurement will free upresources for priority
                           programs and improve public and investor confidence inthe
                           public sector. Byimproving the targeting o f social assistance and
                           health insurance subsidies, the project will improve the living
                           conditions o fthe poor. Reforms inthe civil service will provide
                           Government with the means to develop and implement sound
                           public policies over the longterm.

Risks:                     The proposedPSMAL, entails political andimplementationrisks.
                           Although the threat o frenewedethnic violence is modest,
                           conflict could be re-ignitedby continued uncertainty over the
                           status o fneighboringKosovo. The difficult reform agenda that
                           lies ahead may also create social stressesthat could translate into
                           waningpolitical commitment onthe part o fthe Government. The
                           Government's implementationcapacity is also limited. FYR
                           Macedonia is a small country andrequires additional trained staff
                           even at the highest levels o f government.

                           Not all these risks can be addressedby the Bank. But several
                           features o fthe loan will mitigate--or reduce Bank exposure--to
                           them. First, manyo fthe keyreforms will be completedbefore the
                           operation is presented to the Board. The matrix requires
                           Parliamentary enactment (rather than submission to Parliament)
                           o f the key legislation onprocurement andcivil service. Second,
                           actions that cannot be fully completed before Boardpresentation
                           have beenplacedina second tranche, which i s back-loaded to
                           ensure that the Government has a strong incentive to complete
                           them. (Two-thirds of the loan disburses inthe second tranche.)
                           Implementation risks will be mitigated through the ample use o f
                           donor-financed technical assistance. Assistance for reforms in
                           health care and social protection will also be provided through
                           projects inboth those sectors, currently under preparation.

Schedule o fDisbursements: The loan will be disbursed intwo tranches. The first will be
                           disbursed immediately after loan effectiveness. The second is
                           floating andwill be disbursed after the conditions specified inthe
                           LoanAgreement have been fulfilled.

Poverty Category:          Not applicable.



                                         5

Rate o fReturn:                   Not applicable.

Project IDNumber:                 MK-PO74893

Map                               IBRD28959R1




This operation was preparedbyateam consistingofWilliam Dillinger (Task Team Leader/LeadPublic
Sector Management Specialist), Rajna Cemerska (Operations Officer), Loraine Hawkins ( Sr. Health
Specialist) ,Sarbani Chakraborti (Health Specialist) ,SatuKahkonen(Lead Economist), Andy
Macdonald (Financial Management Consultant), Sham Moss (Lead Procurement Specialist), Evgenij
Najdov (Research Analyst), SnjezanaPlevko (Sr. Economist) and Gary Reid(Lead Public Sector
Management Specialist). The team would like to thank the staff o f the Resident MissioninSkopje for
their assistanceinpreparingthis operation.




                                              6

        INTERNATIONAL,BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND
                                        DEVELOPMENT
     PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA PROPOSEDPUBLICSECTOR
                MANAGEMENTADJUSTMENTLOANTO
       THE FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OFMACEDONIA

                                         Table of Contents


I~\~TRODUCT~ON......................................................................................................................     8
       RecentEconomic Developments .............................................................................                         9
       Medium-Term Prospects andFiscal Sustainability ...............................................                                   13
       StrengtheningSocial Cohesion..............................................................................                       14
THE GOVERNMENT'S        AGENDA PUBLICSECTORMANAGEMENTREFORM....................
                                       FOR                                                                                              17
       Budget Formulation andExecution .......................................................................                          20
       Audit ..................................................................................................................... -22
       Procurement..........................................................................................................            ~ 2 4
       Civil ServiceReform.............................................................................................                 27
       Social Sector Expenditure Management................................................................ 30
THEPROPOSED    LOAN      .........................................................................................................      34
       Rationale for BankInvolvement............................................................................                        34
       Benefits andRisks..................................................................................................              36
       Coordination with the IMF....................................................................................                    37
       BoardConditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision...........................................                                     39
       LoanAdministration ..............................................................................................                40
       Poverty Implications ..............................................................................................              41
       EnvironmentalImpact............................................................................................                  41
ANNEX 1: MAINECONOMIC               ~DICAT0RS            ........................................................................... 42
ANNEX 2: STATUSOFBANKGROUP                      AND     FcOPERAnONS................................................                     44
ANNEX 3: TIMETABLE        OFKEY PROCESSINGEVENTS                           .......................................................... 47
ANNEX 4: LETTERDEVELOPMENT
                     OF                             POLICY ...................................................................          48
ANNEX 4A: INTERNATIONALTENDERING FORPHARMACEUTICALS                                               ..................................... 55
ANNEX 4B: ACTIONPLANFORIMPLEMENTATIONOFWAGE DECOMPRESSION                                                            ...................5 9
ANNEX 4C: BUDGET       PROCESSREFORMMONITORING                               INDICATORS            ...................................  -61
A " E X 4D: FIRSTREVIEW OF mFSTANDBYARRANGEMENT                                           ............................................ 64
ANNEX5: PROPOSEDPSMAL CONDITIONS                            ......................................................................     ~ ~ 6 6
ANNEX 6: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE                   ...................................................................................      ~ ~ 6 9




                                                  7

                                   PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                                      FORA PROPOSED
                PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENTADJUSTMENT LOANTO
                 THEFORMERYUGOSLAV REPLUBLICOFMACEDONIA



                                   INTRODUCTION

1.       The proposed loan inthe amount o f US$30 million is one o f a series o f operations
aimed at improving public sector management inorder to provide the basis for sustained
economic growth and improve the living conditions o f FYR Macedonia's poor. While
addressing a broad range o f generic issues o fpublic sector management, it will also focus
specifically on the management o f health care expenditures, which are both a source o f
fiscal risk and a key element o fthe Government's effort to reduce poverty.

2.       This operation has its origins in a public expenditure and institutional review
(PER) prepared during 2000. That report identified key problems in governance that
were impeding Macedonia's economic and social development. These included an
absence o f macroeconomic realism or policy analysis in the budget preparation process;
widespread financial mismanagement--particularly in the health sector--and mistargeted
spending in the social sectors. The PER attributedthese problems inpart to the shortage
of competent staff in senior policy making positions, which it attributed, in turn, to the
absence o f a functioning civil service system and the low level o f salaries in senior
positions.

3.       These issues began to be addressed under a Public Sector Management
Adjustment Credit (PSMAC), which was prepared during 2001 and presented to the
Board in April 2002. The Credit supported the Government's efforts to improve budget
preparation and financial reporting, professionalize the civil service, and improve the
targeting o f social expenditures. Reform under the PSMAC was limitedhowever. A civil
conflict which broke out in 2001 consumed the Government's attention and slowed the
pace o f reform. While the Credit's Letter o f Development Policy set out an ambitious
reform agenda, its conditions for Board presentation were relatively modest. Once the
credit had been approved, the Government was then distracted by upcoming elections,
which it subsequently lost.

4.       A new administrationtook office inNovember 2002. Work on the PSMALbegan
immediately thereafter, along with preparation o f investment projects inhealth, education
and social assistance. In 2003, the Bank completed a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) and a Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR). In April
2003, the IMF Board approved a Standby Arrangement with the Government, which
opened the way for a resumption o f adjustment lending.




                                             8

5.      The proposed loan would follow up on the reforms identified in the PER and
initiated under the PSMAC'. It will address the deficiencies identified in the CFAA and
CPAR. It will also support policyreforms linked to the proposed social sector investment
loans and will support the terms o f the Government's Standby Arrangement with the
IMF. While many o f these reforms can be initiated under the proposed two-tranche
PSMAL operation, longer-term reforms and follow-up implementation action would be
supported under two follow-on adjustment operations.


Recent Economic Developments

6.      At the time o f independence in 1991, FYR Macedonia was among the least
developed o f the republics o f the SFRY, and its economy had been contracting for more
than six years. Macroeconomic instability, which inthe early years saw output collapse by
about 20 percent and the fiscal deficit balloon to 13 percent o f GDP, was countered by a
stabilization program beginning in 1994. This program succeeded in bringing inflation
down to single digit levels and reducing the fiscal deficit. Over the next few years the
pace o f economic growth picked up, price stability was preserved, and fiscal balance was
largely achieved by 1997.

7.      In 1999, however, conflict inneighboringKosovo sent a wave ofrefbgees across
the border and severed key trade andtransport links to the north. Industrialproduction fell
bydouble-digits and fiscal balances deteriorated. Swift resolution o fthe crisis allowed for
a quick recovery. By 2000 exports had recovered to their 1998 level, and the economy
registered its highest growth rate since independence (4.5 percent). As a result o f this
quick turnaround, overall performance for 1995-2000 remained quite positive. The
economy grew in this period by 14.4 percent, with the industrial sector taking the lead
with an 18.6 percent growth, driven byrevival o fthe iron and steel industry, andtextiles.
(See Table 1for select key economic indicators.)

8.      A domestic ethnic conflict disruptedthis positive economic momentum. Inearly
2001, fighting erupted between Macedonian government forces and ethnic Albanian
rebels in the northwest region of FYR Macedonia. As fighting spread to the outskirts o f
the capital, a full-blown civil war was feared. However, in August 2001, an
internationally mediated ceasefire led to the disarming o f the insurgents and a peace
agreement signed by the leaders o f the major political parties. By the end o f the year,
violence had subsided inthe conflict-affected areas, most displaced persons had returned
home, and the police had established an active presence inmost communities. But while
direct conflict damage was limited, output contracted by 4.5 percent. Investment activity
dropped markedly, and the fiscal and external deficits widened significantly as security
related expenditures surged and exports andtransfers plummeted.




 The proposed loan was endorsed (under the name PSMAL2) inthe Country Assistance Strategyfor the
     Former YugoslavRepublic of Macedonia, which was discussedby the Board in September, 2003
     (Report No. 265 13).



                                                9

9.        For the first time in five years, FYR Macedonia now confronts a relatively
peaceful regional and internal political environment. It also has a new government, which
took office in late 2002. Parliamentary elections were conducted peacefully and were
endorsed by international monitors as free and fair. As has been the case with all
governments since independence, the winning ethnic Macedonian party opted to include
inthe Government one ofthe ethnic Albanianparties. The coalitioncame to power witha
mandate to re-impose the rule of law, fight corruption, reduce unemployment, and
alleviate poverty.

10.       The new administration put together an economic management package which
earned international acceptance. The IMF Board approved a Standby Arrangement with
the Government inApril 2002, whichwill expire at end-June 2004. Under the

                       Table 1: FYRMacedonia Key Economic Indicators

                                                       1998       1999      2000      2001      2002        2003
                                                                                                             est.
Inflation, annual average                               0.8       -1.1       5.8       5.5        1.8         1.2
Real GDP growthrate                                     3.4       4.3       4.5       -4.5        0.9        3.1




   Difference between GDP and consumption 2/ Includes Government domestic and foreign debt 3/ Includes short-,
  edium- and long-term foreign debt




                                                    10

program, the authorities planned significant fiscal adjustment to reverse the deterioration
experienced in 2001 and 2002, and to get on a sustainable fiscal path for the medium
term.

11.     The     macroeconomic
program is broadly on track,                    Figure1:GrowthbySector in2003-2003 (percent)
and economic growth has been
slowly picking up since 2002
(see Figure 1). In 2002, the
recovery of the economy was
slower than expected, though.
Real GDP grew by 0.9 percent
as     investment     remained
sluggish, and imports surged
while     exports     remained
depressed. In2003, growth intensified and registered at 3.1 percent, partly as a result o f
the re-opening of large steel exporting companies and expansion inthe service industry.2
The de facto peg to the euro
continued to hold inflation to      I    Figure2: Fiscal Balance(excl. grants)as percentof
low single digits. In2004, real                                     GDP

GDP growth is projected to
further accelerate and reach
four percent. In addition to a
positive fiscal stimulus that
the 2004 budget i s designed to
provide, there are also signs o f          1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1991 1998 1999 2wO 2001 2002 2003

recovery in Macedonian food                          '0 Fiscalbalance(excl. grants)      1
and textile sectors.

12.     The             general          Figure 3: External Debt to GDPand Export Ratios

government fiscal balance has
also improved (see Figure 2).        1501
In 2002, the fiscal deficit
(excluding grants) remained
high at 5.6 percent of GDP,                                              -         a        A
                                                               v
                                                               A         A         v        v        +
partly because     of ongoing
                                      0
security needs, but mostly               1997       1998     1999      2000      2001     2002      2003
because of increased spending
inthe run-upto the September      '  +ExternalDebt     to GDPRatio -m-       ExternalDebtto ExportRatio
2002 Parliamentary elections.                                                                            ~~




The new Gover&ent       tightened the fiscal policy in 2003 to reverse the trend. Public
spending contracted significantly and the deficit narrowed to 1.7 percent of GDP. The


 FYRMacedonia became a fullWTO member in April 2003.



                                             11

fiscal deficit is projected to stabilize to about 2-2.5 percent o f GDP over the medium-
term. While the level o f public expenditures as a share of GDP (34.9 percent o f GDP in
2003) i s comparable or slightly lower than inother countries inthe region and inCentral
and Eastern Europe, its composition is a concern. The capital expenditures are low
compared to other countries, while spendingonpublic administration i s relativelyhigh.

13.      Owing to sluggish exports and increasing imports, the external current account
deficit (including grants) worsened in2002, widening from -7.1 percent of GDP in2001
to -8.6 percent of GDP in 2002. Exports increased by about 22 percent in 2003,
narrowing the deficit to -8.3 percent, but it i s projected to slightly widen again in 2004
dueto the recent cut inimport duties, amongother things.

14.      FYRMacedonia's external debt hasremained sustainable. At the endof2003, the
total external debt stood at US$1.8 billion, which was about 38.9 percent o f GPD and
108.5 percent of exports (see Figure 3). The structure o f external debt was relatively
favorable, with liabilities based on concessional lendingaccounting for about one-quarter
o f total debt outstanding. Liabilities towards private and commercial creditors accounted
for just over a quarter o f total external debt, and short-term debt was less than 6 percent
o f the total. However, because most debt (both external and domestic) was denominated
in foreign currency, it remained vulnerable to exchange rate fluctuations. External debt
service payments as a share of exports were 14 percent in 2003, suggestingthat the debt
i s manageable. Liquidity remained relatively comfortable, with a short-term debt to
reserve ratio o f 5.2 percent, and a reserve cover o f 4.3 months o f imports, despite the
weak performance ofexports inthe last couple o fyears.


has      remained      high              Figure4: UnemploymentRate in 1998-2003(percent)
compared        to    other
coGtries in the region
and in Central          and
EasternEurope. Usingthe
ILO       definition     o f
unemployment and Labor
Force      Survey     data,
unemployment stood at                    1998     1999       2000   2001     2002   2003

32 percent in 2002 and                                      Unemploymentrate
                                                          ~


increased to 36.7 percent
in2003, ofwhich about 85 percentwere long-term unemployed (see Figure 4). Highand
persistent unemployment reflects low newjob creation. Privatizationof state enterprises
has failed to spur recovery o f labor demand, as few o f the privatized enterprises have
becomeprofitable, and the newlyemergingprivate sector hasbeentoo small to generatea
significant number o f newjobs. Also, the labor marketsare highly regulated. Labor costs
inFYRMacedonia areinlineor lowerthaninother countriesinthe region, however.

16.     New business startups and private investment have remained sluggish, owing to
low domestic savings and limited foreign capital inflows. While more successful



                                              12

transition economies have seen substantial inflows o f investment and capital from
developed neighbor countries, both FDI and domestic investment in FYR Macedonia
have been constrained by lingering perceptions of political risk as well as growing
concerns over public sector corruption, which became particularly acute in 2001 and
2002.3 Business confidence surveys indicated some improvement inthe business climate
in2003, but serious obstacles to private sector activity remain. Inaddition to perceived
political risks and corruption, business climate surveys4 indicate that these obstacles
include: large presence o f the state inthe economy; heavy regulation (inparticular inthe
labor markets); inefficient and opaque court system; and policy unpredictability. These
barriers tend to increase the cost o f entry to the formal market, and encourage informal
operations. Preliminary estimates suggest that the size o f the informal economy in FYR
Macedonia is about 40 percent o f GDP.


Medium-Term                                    Table 2: Macroeconomic Projections 2004-2007
                                                              Actual     Projected . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospectsand Fiscal                                           2004       2005                    2006                                 2007
Sustainability                                                           (in'YO)
                                GDPgrowth (%)                      0.7          3.0                              4.0                            4.5
17.     Assuming                Inflation                          1.9          2.5                              2.1                             2.7
                                                                      (in%ofGDP)
continuing
                                Fiscal Balance                    -5.9         -2.3                            -1.4                             -0.7
improvements              in        Revenues                     35.9         32.6                            33.1                              32.8
regional and domestic               Expenditures                 41.8         34.9                            34.5                              33.5
stability    and     strong     Current Account                   -8.7         -6.8                            -6.8                             -6.3
                                                                                2.4                              2.7
policy performance, the         Foreign Direct Investment          2.1                                                                           2.8
                                Gross Domestic Investment        21.9         23.0                            23.7                              24.3
medium-term outlook is           Source:staff calculations
positive. With progress
in structural reforms and an extemal environment conducive to improved trade and
capital flows, economic growth is projected to increase to 5 percent by 2007. There is a
significant potential for growth in all sectors, since the value added in 2003 was still
below the level in 1990 and there is significant underutilized capacity inproduction and
labor. The industrial sector is expected to be the driver for growth, though. Continuing
with the current exchange rate regime and proper monetary and fiscal policies will
provide the necessary macroeconomic stability with average annual inflation about 2-3
percent. (see Table 2)

18.     However, achieving 4-5 percent growth rates in the medium term assumes that
investment will increase to about 24 percent o f GDP, and exports will grow at about 8-9
percent per year. This will be a formidable task which the completion o f structural
reforms and the creation o f an environment conducive to business andinvestment should
help facilitate. Inaddition, the recently signed Stabilization and Association Agreement



  Transparency International ranks FYR Macedonia 108* among 133 countries, inthe same neighborhood
as Honduras and Sudan.
  The Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey o f 2002, and the FIAS Administrative
Procedures Survey of 2002.



                                                         13

(SAA) with the EU5will promote greater flows o f goods and services by reducing tariff
and other trade barriers, providing a market for Macedonian producers and stimulating
competition in the domestic market. Perhaps more importantly, the S A A aims to
accelerate the alignment o fpolicies, legislationandinstitutions with those o f the EU. This
alignment should spark higher FDI flows and higher domestic investment, fueling
stronger growth.

19.      While labor intensive growth is needed to reduce unemployment and improve
living standards inthe short term, human capital development needs to remain a priority.
Special attention will need to be paid to education and health to generate rising labor
productivity over the long term, as well as further reform and consistent enforcement o f
labor regulations andtaxes.

20.      Government spending i s projected to increase in the medium term, owing to the
Government's intention to intensify reforms andprovide a fiscal stimulus. Consequently,
the general government deficit is projected to increase slightly from its 2003 level to
about 2.4 percent o f GDP in 2004, and gradually fall to about 2 percent o f GDP. This
level o f spending and deficits will enable the Government to retain the public debt at
about 42 percent o f GDP over the medium term. In order to reduce reliance on foreign
borrowing and develop its financial markets, the Government started issuing Treasury
Bills inearly 2004.

21.      Current projections indicate that, with proper management, external debt should
not create sustainability problems in the medium term. Reduction in the current account
deficit over the medium term to about 6 percent o f GDP will preserve the external debt to
GDP ratio at a comfortable level o f about 35 percent o f GDP, and debt servicing,
projected to average about 4 percent o f GDP andbelow 10percent o f exports, will remain
manageable over the medium term. However, failure o f the economy and exports to grow
as projected would jeopardize this scenario as the country is no longer eligible for
concessional borrowing.


Strengthening Social Cohesion

22.      One o f the prerequisites for a successful reform program is a degree o f domestic
political stability. The Ohrid Agreement ending the recent civil conflict set out specific
reforms aimed at ensuring the rights o f minority communities. It provided for the
representation o f minority communities in key government institutions (the National
Security Council, the Republican Judicial Council, and the Constitutional Court, as well
as a newly created Committee for Inter-Community Relations) and instituted a "minority
veto"6 over certaincategories o f legislation, including laws that directly affect culture, use
o f language, education, local government andpersonaldocumentation.


  FYRMacedonia signed the SAA inMarch 2001.

  Such laws mustbe approved by `a majority of legislators claiming to represent minority communities' as
well as by a majority ofthe legislature as a whole.



                                                   14

23.     Equal Representation The Ohrid Agreement has several elements with important
implications for public sector management. The first i s minority representation inpublic
employment. The Agreement commits the Government to ensuring "equitable
representation" ofminorities inMacedonia'spublic administration. It specifically requires
the Government to correct present imbalances in the composition o f the public
administration, `in particular through the recruitment of members of under represented
communities' and provides that `particular attention will be given to ensuring that the
police services generally reflect the composition and distribution of the population o f
Macedonia.'

24.     In implementing this provision, the Government is constrained by fiscal
limitations and by other elements inthe public administration reform agenda. Inorder to
meet the deficit targets specified in its Standby Arrangement with the IMF, the
Government i s to maintain a freeze on net new hiring. It is also committed, under the
Civil Service Law and other legislation andpolicies, to create a professional, merit-based
civil service. Within these constraints, the Government has taken significant steps
forward. New provisions in the Law on Civil Servants (LCS) require civil service
vacancies to be advertised in minority languages. They also require each public
administrative body covered by the CS Law to "adopt an annual plan for adequate and
equitable representation" and submit it to the CS Agency. An initial inquiry has been
launched on the need for bilingual posts in ministries. Various training initiatives aimed
at better preparing official minority candidates for public employment have also been
launched. Efforts have been launched to develop a communication strategy on the
Government's minority employment efforts, although those efforts are still in their
embryonic stages.

25.     These measures are consistent with the due process requirements o f the LCS and
the Government's commitments under the StandbyArrangement. It is clear, however, that
the rate o f increase inminority representation inthe civil service will be slow. Assuming
the freeze on net hiring remains in effect, it could take 4 years to increase the share o f
official minorityemployment intotal public employment by 10percentage point^.^

26.     Decentralization. Progress has also been made on a second major element of the
Ohrid Agreement. The Agreement calls for substantial decentralization o f central
government powers to local governments. Parliament was to adopt a law on local self
government that `reinforces the powers o f elected local officials and enlarges
substantially their competencies in conformity with the Constitution as amended under
the Framework Agreement', referring specifically to `public services, urban and rural
planning, environmental protection, local economic development, culture, education,
social welfare and health care'. The Agreement also requiredthe Government to provide
sufficient financing to support this expansion inresponsibilities, calling specifically for a
law on local government finance to `ensure an adequate system of financing to enable



  Ths assumesthat no official minorities leave public employment, other public employees leave the
public administration at a 5 percent annual rate, and 50 percent of all new hires are official minorities



                                                      15

local governments to fulfill all o f their responsibilities.' Finally, the Agreement called for
a revision o f boundaries, to occur within one year of the completion o f the new census,
which was to be conducted under international supervision by the end o f 2001. The
required amendments to the Constitution were adoptedby Parliament on November 16,
2001. On January24,2002, anew Law on Local Self-Government (LLSG) was approved.
But although the LLSG defines local responsibilities consistent with the Framework
Agreement, it makes no concrete provision for the decentralization o f specific powers or
responsibilities, leaving the details of implementation to be addressed in subsequent
legislation. Neither the finance law or the territorialreform law have been approved.

27.     The new administration intends to pick up the pace. The new Government's
current Operational Program for Decentralization o f Power 2003-2004 set out an
ambitious timetable for passage o f this legislation and for the implementation o f
decentralization itself. The Government intended to have initial proposals for the new
local territorial reform law completed by the end of May 2003. The new finance law was
to be completed in draft in May, 2003, debated over the summer, and submitted to
Parliament inNovember 2003. Specific legislation on property taxation and fees were to
be submitted to Parliament one month later. With respect to the decentralization of
functions, the Government's timetable was equally ambitious. At the outset,
decentralization efforts would focus on functions that can be decentralized in the
`quickest and simplest possible manner'. Proposals for the decentralization o f urbanand
spatial planningwere to be completed in ApriVMay 2003 with a draft law submitted to
Parliament in October/November 2003. Responsibility would be transferred to the
municipalities by the beginning of 2004. The Government also intended a rapid
decentralization o f child protection and social assistance, with draft laws to be submitted
to Parliament by November 2003 and implementation to occur in January 2004. Other
functions would proceedmore slowly. While draft legislation on primaryhealth would be
submitted to Parliament inJune 2003 (and for primaryeducation, in September/October
2003), the Government's Operational Program sets no fixed date for their
implementation.

28.     While the timetable has slipped, the Government i s now making progress on these
measures. The Government has prepared a draft o f the territorial reform law, which i s
now under public discussion and will be submitted to Parliament shortly. A draft finance
law, establishing a formula-based revenue sharing system, will be submitted to
Parliament at the same time. Draft laws on education, urban development, social
protection and healthcare have already completed their first readinginParliament and are
now under revisionby the Government. From a management standpoint, the present pace
o f reform is not undesirable. Recent Bank work has argued that a wide range o f sector-
specific management issues will have to be addressedbefore any major functions can be
successfully decentralized. Infact, there i s some risk that decentralization could have an
adverse impact on public sector management, if it is badly managed. Bank administered
technical assistance will assist the Government in planning for decentralization in the
social sectors.




                                               16

 THEGOVERNMENT'S          AGENDAFORPUBLICSECTORMANAGEMENT                REFORM

29.    The restoration o fpeace, combined with the recent change ingovernment, provide
FYR Macedonia with an opportunity to implement reforms inpublic sector management
which are crucial to maintaining macroeconomic stability and improving the delivery
services, particularly those that directly affect the poor. The agendahas six components:


   0   Budget formulation: FYR Macedonia's budget process had traditionally been
       based on unrealistic revenue projections and an ad hoc andhighlyopaque process
       of negotiation among major budget users. Reforms in budget formulation will
       ensure that budgets are prepared on the basis o f realistic macroeconomic
       parameters and that fixed spending ceilings are imposed on individual budget
       users early inthe budgetprocess.

   0   Budget Execution: Reforms in treasury operations will strengthen controls over
       expenditure commitments and consolidate extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) under a
       single account inthe Treasury.

   0   Audit: As a serious problem, corruption will require further actions on several
       fronts. The new Government will beginby strengthening the internal audit unit in
       the Ministry o f Finance and establishing new internal audit units inagencies that
       pose major fiduciary risks. Legislation governing the State Audit Office (SAO)
       will be revised to permit it to focus on highrisk government agencies. Inaddition
       to these organizational and legislative reforms, the Government will also bring
       public pressure to bear. The S A 0 will also be required to publicize its findings
       andreport onthe Government's efforts to correct them.

       Problems in financial mismanagement are particularly widespread in the health
       sector, and in the Health Insurance Fund in particular. To begin to address this
       problem, the Government will contract a firm to conduct an internal systems
       control audit o f the HIFandprepare an actionplanbased on the audit's findings.

   0   Procurement: To address collusion in public procurement, a new law on public
       procurement will be enacted to reduce political interference incontract awards. A
       new public procurement bureau will be established and staffed inthe Ministryo f
       Finance to monitor the law's implementation. Data on all recent government
       procurements, as well as the findings of the Public Procurement Complaints
       Committee, will be published monthly. The procurement o f pharmaceuticals has
       been particularly subject to abuse. To address this problem, the Government will
       shift its system for procuring Government-subsidized pharmaceuticals to one
       based on international competitive bidding.


   0   Civil Service Reform: The Government will also address more fundamental
       causes o fpublic service failures andweakness inmacroeconomic management. At
       present, many senior positions are filled by under qualified and unmotivated staff-



                                               17

   Although an adequate civil service law has been enacted, it is not enforced. The
   new Government introduced a payroll-based mechanism to ensure that civil
   service regulations are enforced. Salaries for higher level civil servants will be
   decompressed, consistent with overall macroeconomic constraints.

0  Reforms in Social Sector Expenditure Management: Inaddition to these broad
   improvements in management, the Government will undertake specific reforms
   aimed at reducing the costs and increasing the effectiveness o f spending on
   hospital care, pensions, and social assistance. To strengthen incentives for the
   efficient operations o f public hospitals, it will revise the legislation governing the
   financial relationship between the HTF and individual hospitals andwill introduce
   performance contracts for at least 17 such facilities. To reduce the costs o f
   administering health insurance, it will streamline the procedure for issuing
   insurance cards to the registered unemployed and investigate more cost-effective
   means of financing health insurance for this segment of the population. To
   improve collection performance and financial management in the Pension and
   Disability Fund, it will revise the PDF's accounting, budgeting and internal
   control procedures to comply with international standards and will revise
   legislation to remove impediments to the tracking and enforcement o f individual
   contributions. Finally, the Government will increase the effectiveness of social
   spending by revising the criteria used to allocate child allowances and social
   assistance.

The proposed operation will actively support reforms in this area. Details are
outlined inthe following section.




                                         18

                         Table 3: Summary of GovernmentReformAgenda
  Key Issues                                       IRelated Reforms
  BudgetFormulation
  0 no macroeconomic        envelope imposed        0 MOF to establish macro economic envelope
     duringbudgetpreparation                           early inthe budget preparationprocess

  0 no budget ceilings on individual ministries     0 MOF to impose fixed ceilings on spending
     imposed duringbudget preparation                  proposals o f first-line budget users



  0 no control over cash balances o f extra-        0 MOF to require EBFs to maintain accounts in
     budgetary funds                                   Single Treasury Account

  0 no   control   over    major    expenditure     0 MOF to impose ex ante controls over major
     commitments                                       spending commitments o f line ministries
  Audit
  0 coverage o f internal audits extremely          0 Government to submit legislation providing
     limited                                           legislative base for internal audit throughout
                                                       public sector, with leadrole for MOF

  0 external audits limited in depth; findings      0 MOF to expand and professionalize internal
     not      publicized;        results       o f     audit unit inMOF
     recommendations not followed up                  Government to establish internal audit units in
                                                       keyministriesandEBFs
                                                     0Government to submit legislation authorizing
                                                       S A 0 to focus on high-risk entities and
                                                       requiring    publication    o f   findings and
                                                       Government progress in taking corrective
                                                       actions


  0 widespread      financial      irregularities    0Government to contract for control systems
     identified in external audits of the Health       audit o f the HIFand prepare action plan based
     Insurance Fund                                    on its findings
  Procurement
  0 law permits political interference in            0Parliament to enact new procurement law and
     contract awards                                   regulations to reduce political interference in

  0 procurement procedures vulnerable to               contract awards
     collusion                                       0Government to create public procurement

  0 regulatoryoversight extremely weak                 bureau in MOF to oversee implementation o f

  0 data on contract awards not available to           new law, regulations
     public                                          0MOFto regularly publishprocurement results

                                                     0MOF to revise and issue standard bidding
                                                       documents and introduce and institutionalize
                                                       international competitive bidding
~~




  0 prices      of     Government-subsidized         0HIF to adopt new practice for procurement of
     pharmaceuticals grossly inflated                  Government-subsidized pharmaceuticals on
                                                       the basis o f international competitive bidding




                                                  19

 0   civil service regulations unenforced            0  MOF to establish payroll-based mechanism to
                                                         enforce   compliance     with civil      service
                                                         regulations

 0   wages for higher level staff uncompetitive      0  Government to decompress wages of higher
                                                         level staff, consistent with macroeconomic
                                                         constraints


 0   Hospitals overstaffed, inefficient              0  hospitals to be financed under performance
                                                         contracts

 0   costs o f administering health insurance        0  HIF/Employment      Bureaus      to    streamline
        excessive; collectionPerformancepoor             procedures for issuing insurance cards and
                                                         improve     system   for    collecting     social
                                                         contributions.

 0  pension fund collection performance poor;           Parliament to revise legislation to improve
       budgeting,     accounting   and   controls        tracking o f collections;     PDF to adopt
        inadequate                                       improved budget, accounting, and control
                                                         procedures

 0   social assistancebadly targeted                 0  beneficiary assessments to be undertaken;
                                                         reforms in targeting o f social assistance, child
                                                         allowance to be identified



BudgetFormulationandExecution

30.       Budget formulation. The World Bank's public expenditure review* reported a
wide range o f management weakness that prevent the Government from performing its
primary roles-macroeconomic            management, poverty reduction, and public service
d e l i v e r y 4 n an efficient and sustainable basis. These findings were reinforced by the
more recent country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) issued and Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). (Both reports were issued in 2003.) The PER
specifically noted hndamental problems inbudget formulation, including: (a) the absence
of broad policy direction and fiscal policy parameters; (b) the absence o f spending
ceilings for individual line ministries fixed early in the budget process; and (c) a high
degree o f budget fi-agmentation, with the general government budget accounting for only
half of public expenditures. The report also noted the high deviation between originally
approved budgets and actual expenditures.

31.         A start on this agenda was made under the first public sector management
operation, PSMAC. Prior to presentation of the PSMAC to the Board, the General
Secretariat and Ministry o f Finance prepared strategic plans designed to ensure that their
organizations would be equipped to deliver on the stronger policy and fiscal management
role envisioned by new legislation. Since then, the General Secretariat has made


  The report, FYR Macedonia Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, was preparedin 2000 and
       issuedinApril, 2002



                                                 20

considerable progress in transforming itself from a purely administrative to a more
strategic and analytic organization. A milestone was achieved with the issuance, in
September 2003, of a Government Decision on the "Adoption o f the Methodology for
Strategic PlanningandPreparation o f an Annual Work Program o f the Government o fthe
Republic o f Macedonia."

32.     The PSMAC also required the Government to make budget process
improvements, including the use of an explicit macroeconomic framework for budget
formulation, with revenue and expenditure targets, spending priorities, and hard budget
constraints for first line budget users. At the time the PSMAC was appraised, these were
not expected to be reflected inthe 2002 budget. (The PSMAC merely required an `IDA-
acceptable' budget for 2002.) Although it was envisioned that they would be incorporated
inthe 2003 budget, the civil conflict in2001 andits economic fallout madethis difficult.
The last budget o f the former administration was therefore prepared in much the same
way as its predecessors.

33.     The new administration has implemented the proposed reforms. These are
reflected inthe budget process for 2004. A fiscal strategy for the 2004-2006 period was
approved by the Government inJune 2003. Hardbudget ceilings for each o f the first line
budget entities were approved by the Government inJune and provided to the entities as
part of their budget instructions. This included a strategic budgetset-aside o f 400 million
denars for the financing o f new priority government programs (including EU and NATO
accession and the implementation o f the Framework Agreement.) Approximately two-
thirds of the resulting budget user's submissions fell within their respective ceilings. Of
the one-third that did not, approximately 70 percent were subsequently reduced to fit
within them. These ceilings, in turn, are reflected in the 2004 budget approved by
Parliament. As shown in Table 4, the final approved budget is 0.7% below the original
aggregate ceiling. An analysis o f the budgets o f individual ministries shows that the few
major variations from the original budget ceilings are due to technical adjustments such
as the reclassification o f certain categories o f expenditure and the recalculation o f debt

      Table 4: Summaryof 2004 Budget Process         service.

                                                     34.                                 The
II                                  I               I        Budget     Execution.
                                                     Government has also made significant
                                                     improvements in budget execution. In
                                                     January 2002, the Treasury assumed
                         I                           responsibility for revenue recording
  Aggregate Ceiling           67.1            0.0    and payment processing from the
I InitialBudget               72.0        +7.3 %
  Returns                                            former    Central    Clearance      and
  MOFBudget                                -1.0 %    Payments      System     (ZPP).     All
  Decision                                           budgetary      transactions,    special
  FinalApproved                            -0.7 %    revenues and part of donor funds are
                                                     now deposited in a single treasury
account at the National Bank o f Macedonia (although some extrabudgetary funds
continue to use private banks). The Treasury now exercises effective control over the
spending o f budget entities. Sixteen district treasury offices receive transaction details
      ,


                                              21

from their designated budget entities, code these transactions, and send them to a
centralized data base in Skopje. Treasury then validates the requests against the monthly
budget plans submitted by the entity, checks that there are sufficient funds inthe account
to cover the payment, and then authorizes the National Bank o f Macedonia to pay. In
September 2003, a commitment control module was successfully implemented in the
Treasury and can now accommodate in-year and multi-year commitments, supported by
an approval process that requires the approval o f the MOF Budget Department prior to
processing. Legislationhas been enacted such that contracts with public sector entities are
legally invalid unless the MOF registers them. To avoid overloading the MOF, only
commitments inexcess o f2600 are subject to approval.

35.    The Government has also made some progress in improving management and
financial oversight o f extra budgetary funds. Using Bank-managed donor funds,
consultants have been contracted to provide technical assistance to the largest o f the
funds, the PDF. Funding has also been provided for an extensive audit o f the second
largest fund, the Health Insurance Fund, as detailed below. The Government is also
committed to shifting the deposits o f all EBFs into the single treasury account. In the
short run, this will reduce the EBFs' exposure to weak private banks. Inthe longer term,
it will permit the Government to use EBF deposits for liquidity management. The
Government recognizes that any sudden withdrawals could destabilize the banking
system. The shift will therefore be undertaken gradually starting with the deposits o f the
HIF.All HIFfunds are to betransferred to the singletreasury account bythe endof2004.
(This is a non-core condition for second tranche disbursement). The Government intends
to complete the preparatory process for transferring the remaining EBF accounts by the
endof2004.


Audit

36.    Internal Audit .The main weaknesses in public financial management now lie in
audit and procurement-two         areas that were not addressed under the PSMAC. The
internal audit function in the Government is seriously underdeveloped, despite a
requirement o f the organic budget law that all budget entities should have an internal
audit function. At the time o f the CFAA, internal audit functions had only been
established in the Ministry o f Finance and in the Public Revenue Office, and these
remained under-resourced. In the absence of any annual audit plan or risk assessment
performed on individual entities, audits were performed on demand, with requests
originating from the State Secretary or the Minister o f Finance. The internal audit unit did
not share the results o f any o f its audits with those directors who would benefit the most
from the information. Management therefore lacked the essential information needed to
control its expenditures, ensure the most effective use o f its resources, and reduce the
incidence o f fraud and corruption, particularly inthe high-risk areas identified previously
inthis report.

37.     Since that time, the Government has made commendable progress in
strengthening internal audit. The Government i s inthe process o f preparing a new internal



                                               22

audit law that satisfies EU Public Internal Financial Control Systems (PIFCS)
requirements. (Parliamentary approval o f the law is expected by the end of 2004.) A
qualified director of internal audit inthe Ministry o f Finance was appointed in September
2003 and a reorganization is underway that will create an internal audit unit inthe MOF,
reporting to the Ministry o f Finance, with responsibilities as recommended by CFAA.
The MOF has approved a systematization act creating the department and authorizing its
staffing. Full staffing of the internal audit department is a non-core condition of second
tranche disbursement.

38.     The Government is also moving to establish internal audit units in other budget
entities, beginning with those that present greatest fiduciary risk. The Ministryo f Finance
has used a simple dollars-at-risk approach to identify 17 budget entities inwhich internal
audit units are to be established during 2004. Among these is the Health Insurance Fund.
The HIF has approved a systematization act creating an internal audit unit in the HIF.
(April 15) Prior to second tranche disbursement, the Government is to authorize the
creation of internal audit units inat least two ofthe other high-risk budget entities.

39.     External Audit. The external audit function was established in 1999 as the State
Audit Office (SAO). While the S A 0 produces audits o f sound quality, its mandate is
extremely broad. The law requires audits of 1,752 separate entities, of which 240 must be
audited annually. As a result, the SAO's efforts are spread too thin. A more risk-based
approach to the choice of entities to be audited is required. Dutch Trust Funds are now
supporting efforts to improve the SAO's strategic planning, along with staff training,
development of audit manuals, and improvements in legislation governing financial
reporting. Legislation permitting the State Audit Office to focus on budget entities that
present highfiduciary risks was enacted byParliament on March 26,2004.

40.     Further dissemination and follow up of S A 0 findings is also needed, in order to
create public pressure on the Government to implement the recommended changes and
initiate criminal procedures where warranted. At present, when audits are completed, they
are discussed with the auditees, who are required by law to reply within 90 days. But no
tracking of the disposition o f these recommendations is conducted by the SAO.
Completed audits are tabled in Parliament by the S A 0 in its annual audit report. The
SA0 does not make these reports public, relying on Parliament to disseminate the
relevant information bymeans oftheir discussions ofthe audit findings.

41.     To address this problem, new legislation will require the S A 0 to: (a) prepare a
high-level summary o f the key systemic weaknesses detected by it in the course o f
conducting its annual audits; (b) track the Government's implementation o f its
recommendations, particularly with respect to those cases involving criminal acts and
prosecution; and (c) make public its findings immediately after its reports have been
tabled in Parliament. This legislation was enacted by Parliament on March 26, 2004.
Regular periodic publicationwould be institutedbythe second tranche.

42.     Financial Management in the HIF. Problems in financial management are
particularly acute in the health sector. Inrecent years, corruption in HIF's management



                                              23

has become increasingly apparent, despite regular S A 0 audits documenting illegality and
poor financial control. These were most recently highlighted by the S A 0 inits report on
the Fund's execution o f the 2000, 2001 and 2003 budgets. These identified a litany o f
shortcomings - poor accounting and recording o f transactions, payments that do not
match invoices received, improper write-offs o f accounts receivable and payable,
procurements that failed to comply with legal procedures andprocesses.

43.      Inorderto addressweaknessesinfinancial control, theHIFisnowundertakinga
range o f measures. It has begun to properly record liabilities and account for available
funds. As noted above, it also plans to establish an internal audit unit, with direct
reporting to the HIF Board. Most importantly, the HIF and S A 0 have agreed that a
financial control systems audit o f the HIF should be carried out with the assistance o f an
international audit firm.' The auditor is to report all significant deficiencies inthe design
or operation o f internal controls that could adversely affect the Fund's ability to initiate,
record, process, summarize and report accurate financial and operational data. (Indoing
so, it will use an internationallyacceptable internal financial control model that is suitable
for government and acceptable to the Fund, the State Audit Office and the World Bank.)
The recommendations o f the systems audit will be used by the HIF as a basis for actions
to strengthen internal control.

44.     The systems audit would supplement the routine financial audit carried out by the
SAO. The State Audit Office (SAO) has agreed to co-operate fully with the systems
auditor, providing a senior S A 0 auditor with extensive knowledge o f the Fund's
operations to work directly with the systems auditor. An international firm has been
contracted to perform the audit and has completed the diagnostic phase o f its work. The
Government is expected to accept the final report and approve an action planbased on its
recommendations later inthe year. Completion o f the audit, and Government approval o f
anactionplan, are core actions o f second tranche disbursement.


Procurement

45.     Macedonia's public procurement regime is characterized by deep and systemic
weaknesses in all its key components - its legislative framework, its procedures
(particularly for disclosure), and its enforcement arrangements. It is typified by excessive
political interference inthe award o f public contracts; a practice enshrined inthe Law on
Public Procurement (LPP) which recognizes the right o f the Minister to ultimately
approve all awards o fpublic contracts.

46.     There is also a pervasive absence o f transparency in the way in which public
entities conduct procurement procedures. Instead o f providing bidders with formal,
written biddingdocuments, public purchasers often only advertise an invitation to bidina
local newspaper. Such advertisements regularly include the cost estimate for the contract
being tendered, the publication o f which may facilitate collusion and price-fixing among


  Completion of this audit is a commitment o fthe GOMunder its stand-by arrangement with the IMF.




                                                   24

bidders. Public entities also often fail to disclose bid evaluation criteria to bidders in
advance o f submission o f their bids. They use subjective methods to evaluate bids and
over-use an "accelerated procedure" provision inthe LPP, bywhich the period allowed to
bidders to prepare their bids may be reduced from 36 days to as little as 10 days. This is
clearly open to manipulation by purchasers who want to give an unfair advantage to a
favored bidder.

47.     Information on other aspects o f the procurement process is also kept out ofpublic
view. The text of the LPP has not been republished since it was first issued in 1998, and
i s now difficult for the public to obtain. While the LPP requires public entities to submit
regular statements of their procurement transactions to the MOF, the great majority
simply fail to do so. This affects the MOF's ability to collect, collate and publish
meaningful information on the Govemment's public procurement activities. Opacity is
further ensured by the failure of govemment entities to share procurement information
among each other. For example, the MOF Intemal Audit does not share reports on its
audits of procurement transactions with the procurement team in MOF's Legal
Department, nor with the State Audit Office, both of whom may be required to act o n
breaches o f the LPP identified in such reports. Furthermore, while the Public
Procurement Complaints Committee conducts independent administrative reviews o f
bidders' complaints, information on its decisions does not appear to be shared effectively
with Government, let alone published.

48.     Weaknesses in the legislative framework and procurement practices are
exacerbated by institutional weakness and by laxity in the enforcement o f even the
existing legislation. FYR Macedonia lacks an authoritative body to oversee enforcement
o f the law and provide guidance to the organizations bound by it. While the MOF is
formally charged with authority over public procurement, it has no staff dedicated to this
function. Instead, procurement matters are handledo n a part-time, ad hoc basis by a group
ofthree lawyers inMOF's Legal Department, who juggle this obligationwith many other
responsibilities. It is clear that the absence of a dedicated public procurement department,
with full time dedicated staff, is a major cause of the MOF's inability to exercise its
oversight function effectively.

49.     To address these problems, the Ministry of Finance has drafted a new Law on
Public Procurement (LPP). This law successfully addresses the major flaws in the
existing legislation. It has been submitted to Parliament and was enacted on March 26,
2004.

50.     The new law will be supplemented by a comprehensive set o f implementing
regulations that will clarify and explain its application. These will, inter alia, specify the
required contents o f the Register of Performed Public Procurement, which all procuring
entities governed by the procurement law should be requiredto complete andretum to the
Ministry of Finance. In addition, a set of standard procurement documents (standard
biddingdocuments and standard forms of contract for the procurement of goods, works
and services) will be issued. Regulations are to be adopted mandating their use by all
organizations covered by the LPP as a condition of second tranche disbursement. To



                                               25

improve transparency, the MOF will publish the Register o f Performed Public
Procurement and the findings of the Public Procurement Complaints Committee on its
website on a monthly basis. All actions described in this paragraph are conditions of
second tranche disbursement.

51.     In order to strengthen the MOF's ability to monitor the performance o f public
procurement and ensure that the LPP is enforced, the Government will upgrade the
Ministry's capacity inthis area by establishing a Public Procurement Bureau headed by a
Director of Public Procurement, reporting directly to the Government and to the Minister
of Finance. The bureau will be adequately staffed and resourced to discharge the
Ministry's responsibilities for public procurement as mandated inthe LPP. (This is a core
condition of second tranche disbursement.)

52.     Pharmaceutical Procurement. Pharmaceutical procurement is a particular target
for reform. At present, HIF procures most pharmaceuticals and other supplies and
distributes them to individual health institutions."              The process has been plagued by
scandal. According to a study conducted by the WHO in 1997,the prices obtained by HIF
tenders are, on average, four times as high as prices obtained in international tenders by
humanitarianprocurement agencies. This was borne out by a international tender for a
limited list of drugs under the World Bank's Health Sector TransitionProject. Some price
reductions have been achieved since this date through local tenders, but for many
products, there are only one to three suppliers with market authorization to supply the
local market, and as a result, prices for many products on the positive list remain
substantially higher than prices obtainable in international tender, or prices in some
neighboring countries. The latter phenomenon is leading to extensive un-regulated cross-
border trade. While the broader procurement reforms will eventually result in a more
competitive biddingprocess for pharmaceuticals (and presumably lower prices), this area
requires immediate attention due to its fiscal impact and prominence (as a major source of
corruption), and because it may require changes in ancillary, regulation governing market
entry for pharmaceuticals (specifically, the regulations and rules governing procedures for
marketing authorizations for pharmaceuticals).

53.     To address the problem, the HIFwill implement international tenders on the basis
of procedures to be agreed with and closely monitored by the Bank. The tenders will
cover all pharmaceutical subject to HIFreimbursement'' At the request of the Ministry of
Finance, the PSMAL. team has prepared a technical memorandum o f understanding
(MOU). This specifies the steps required to complete an international tender for
pharmaceuticals that would be satisfactory to the Bank. It was signed by the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of Health, and the director of the Health Insurance Fund. (See


lo somecases,individualhealthinstitutionsareabletorequestmedicalsuppliesdirectlyfromsuppliers
  In
     underthe terms ofa call-off contract let bythe HIF in1997,and chargedback to the HIF.Insome
     cases, institutions continue to call offproducts under contracts that have not beenre-tendered since
     1997.

  Withthe exceptiono f certaindrugs, defined inagreement with the Bank, that would notbenefit from
     intemational tendering.



                                                      26

Annex 4A.) To expedite the process, the Pharmaceutical Bureau of the HIF has
streamlined the procedures for issuing marketing authorizations for pharmaceuticals,
eliminating inappropriate requirements for local testing and expert opinions for drugs
already tested. (Revised instructions were issued on March 30, 2004.) Although work on
the tendering process has been initiated, the completion of the process-signified     by the
signing of contracts with winning bidders-is     not expected until October 2004. To ensure
that the process is satisfactorily completed, the signing o f contracts for quantities
sufficient to meet the requirements of the HIF and healthcare institution for a period of at
least one year is a core condition o f second tranche disbursement.

54.     Inprinciple, the benefits of international tendering could be undercut if the HIF
reaches disadvantageous agreements with the individual pharmacies responsible for
distributingpositive-list pharmaceuticals to individual consumers. At present, positive list
drugs are distributed through state-owned pharmacies. The Government, however,
intends to privatize the pharmacies, with the intent of raising short-term capital, and in
the long term, reducing costs. This raises two risks. First, excessively generous
compensation agreements with the privatized pharmacies could cancel out the savings the
HIF is expected to achieve through the use of international competitive bidding.
(Unrealistically low compensation, on the other hand, could jeopardize access to
pharmaceuticals in low-profit rural areas and low income urbanneighborhoods). Second,
agreements which permit local monopolies o n the distribution ofpositive list drugs would
create opportunities for corruption through discrimination inthe award ofcontracts.

55.     The Government has prepared a draft amendment to the Health Care Law which
provides a framework for pharmacy privatization. This has been reviewed by the Bank.
(Comments are available in the project files.) As the law does not specify the terms on
which retailers are to be compensated or the terms on which contracts are to be awarded,
these issues will be addressed through subsequent bylaws. A s a second tranche condition,
the P S M A L policy matrix therefore requires the HIFto approve by-laws that: (i)  establish
reimbursement mechanisms that ensure cost-containment and access; and (ii)        ensure that
contracts to distribute positive list pharmaceuticals are open to all qualified pharmacies.


Civil Service Reform

56.     Underlying many of the deficiencies in public sector management in FYR
Macedonia is a shortage of skilled, motivated staff in senior management positions. The
PER recommended the development of a professional civil service, notingthat the rules
(or absence of rules) governing employment and salaries, hampered the Government's
ability to hire and motivate qualified staff for senior positions. A s an action for Board
presentation of the PSMAC, the L a w on Civil Servants was passed by Parliament and
subsequently amended in April 2001. K e y provisions o f that L a w and its subsidiary
legislation included: (a) a uniform, rule-based and less compressed salary structure for all
civil servants; (b) uniform definitions of the types of positions encompassed by the civil
service; and (c) establishment o f an independent agency, the Agency for Civil Servants
(CSA), responsible for establishing and enforcing civil service management policies and



                                              27

procedures. Specific measures were included in related legislation to reduce political
interference in recruitment and promotion. While the legislative framework for the civil
service was enacted prior to presentation o f the PSMAC to the Board, it has only been
partially implemented. Despite the provisions o f the law and its subsidiary legislation,
sectoral ministries and other public institutions have been able to bypass the CSA,
recruiting staff for civil service positions without competitive exams or review by the
CSA.

57.      To address this problem, the Ministry o f Finance and the Civil Servants Agency
(CSA) have now agreed to establish a procedure under which no new employee can be
registered on the Government payroll system unless: (a) the CSA has reviewed the budget
user's Acts o f Systematization (to ensure that the position is authorized); and (b) the
budget user has complied with civil service recruitment procedures if the position is
covered by the Law on Civil Servants (LCS). Legal backing for this arrangement is now
provided inthe 2004 annual budget execution law.

58.      This solution must be recognized as a temporary solution, because the authority
for the MOF to clear all new employees is only included inthe existing Budget Execution
Law inorder to ensure they can meet wage bill control agreements with the IMF. It is not
included inthe Organic Budget Law. A permanent solution would require an amendment
to the Organic Budget Law. Accordingly, the proposed PSMAL would require inclusion
in the 2004 Budget Execution Law of language authorizing the MOF to withhold its
clearance for new appointments until it is provided with adequate evidence that CSA
reviews and clearances mandated by the LCS have been obtained. Submission o f the
required changes inthe organic law will be completedprior to the second tranche.

59.      The other key element of civil service reform is decompression o f the wage bill.
Low wages insenior civil service positions make it difficult to attract and retain qualified
personnel. To address this problem, the Government intends to introduce a greater degree
o f differentiation among positions in the civil service structure. Under Article 97 o f the
Law on Civil Servants, a new, decompressed salary structure, was to go into effect in
January 2002. The date for implementation was then postponed to January 2003. It was
subsequently postponed to January 2004. Inthe mean time, there was some progress. One
of the factors contributing to the high cost o f salary decompression was a so-called hold
harmless provision, which prohibited any reductions in salaries related to salary
decompression. InMarch 2003, the new Government amended the Law on Civil Servants
(LCS)   l2to eliminate the "hold harmless" clause.

60.      Whether decompression can be implemented in2004 depends inpart on its fiscal
consequences. While the Government is formally committed to wage decompression, it
did not provide funding for it in the 2004 budget it submitted to Parliament. Intheory,
decompression could be implemented without any additional cost. Increases in top
positions could be offset by cuts lower down. But a budget neutral decompression would



l2Official Gazetteof theRepublic of Macedonia no. 1712003.



                                                28

imply that a substantial number o f civil servants would see their wages fall. To reduce
political opposition to the reform, the Government would need to provide additional
funding. A large increase inthe civil service wage bill, on the other hand, would violate
the fiscal parameters agreed with the IMF. To minimize the immediate fiscal impact o f
the reform, wage decompression would not begin to take effect until April 1, 2004, and
would be implemented in monthly increments over the following 24 months. In
conjunction with the IMF, the Bank andthe Government have agreed that the net costs o f
wage decompression should not exceed 0.2% of GDP (650 million denar) in2004 (on an
annualized basis). A detailed action plan for implementing wage decompression has been
agreed with the Government. (See Annex 4B.) Parliament approved legislation required
to implement wage decompression on March 19, 2004. Satisfactory progress in
implementing the wage decompression action plan is a core condition o f second tranche
disbursement. Follow on adjustment operations (PSAL1 and PSAL2) would support
further reforms in the civil service structure and in the terms and conditions o f public
employment as a whole.

61.     Adjusting the civil service salay structure. Establishing an enforcement
mechanism for civil service recruitment and implementing the decompressed salary
structure specified inthe civil service law are first steps in a longer-term strategy needed
to create a competent, cost effective, public service. Over the medium term, the
Government should review the competitiveness o f civil service salaries--with particular
attention to positions where low salaries have made it difficult to recruit competent staff--
andmake corresponding adjustments inthe points assigned to suchpositions. At the same
time, the Government should review the salary position point structure specified in the
civil service law in order to ensure that that the point position structure reflects the
structure o f responsibilities as they vary across position^.'^

62.      Reviewing salay structures across the entirepublic administration. Over time,
reform is also required inthe salary structure o f the 90% o fpublic employees who are not
civil servants. In March 2003, the Economic and Social Council established a working
group to devise a uniform position classification and salary structure throughout the
public sector, (excluding public enterprises and state-owned enterprises and the civil
service.) This is not the first time such an effort has been launched in Macedonia.
Previous efforts have not yielded any agreement, in no small part because the wide
variety o f functions undertaken by Macedonia's public administration call for an
enormous variety o f job skills and responsibilities. To address this issue, the PSMAL
team has advised the working group to divide the deliberations into two separate groups
o f positions: (i)common function positions which are likely to be required by most
budget users (such as clerical staff, and manual laborers); and (ii)                       unique function
positions--those that tend to be concentrated in specific ministries such as teachers and



l3 Governmentshouldalsoaddressthecurrentdiscrepanciesbetweentheallocationofstaffamong
  The
positions and actualjob responsibilities. As promotion across certain grades depends on academic
credentials, staff lacking those credentials tend to `bunch' at the lower grade, although their actualjob
responsibilities would qualify them for a higher rank.



                                                       29

military personnel.) In doing so, it will be possible to address the sectoral Ministries'
concerns about the uniqueness of their particular staffs.

63.     Reviewing civil service implementation experience and adjusting policies and
procedures in light of lessons learned. A reasonable legal framework exists for creating a
merit-based, professional civil service in Macedonia that is capable of attracting and
retaining the humancapital skills required to staff the public administration's professional
and managerial ranks. Rules governing recruitment and selection procedures ensure a
reasonable degree o f checks, balances and due process requirements. This should help to
ensure that recruitment and selection practices reflect merit criteria. Rules governing
personnel evaluation procedures require annual performance evaluations, give some
specificity to criteria to be applied, and provide a reasonable degree of checks, balances
and due process requirements as well. Rules governing promotions are also designed to
encourage promotion practices based on merit and performance. Rules governing
disciplinary actions clarify grounds for such actions, establish a reasonable range of
disciplinary options, commensurate with the magnitude o f the offense, and provide for a
sensible set of redress mechanisms. Finally, rules governing salary setting within the civil
service, as noted earlier, are designed to ensure greater transparency, better tailoring o f
salaries to skill requirements and labor market conditions and a salary structure that
makes a career within the civil service more attractive. But a reasonable legal framework
along all these dimensions will not be sufficient to ensure that the underlying objectives
of the Law on Civil Servants are met inpractice.

64.     Effective implementation of the Law on Civil Servants and its subsidiary
legislation is the challenge now faced by Macedonian authorities. Inlight of this, it will
be important for the Government to continuously review its implementation and the
impacts being achieved, and to adjust both the legal framework and implementation
efforts to address challenges and problems that become evident. For this reason, the Civil
Servants Agency has agreed with the Bank on a set o f civil service management
monitoring indicators, which have been designed to capture the extent to which the
underlying objectives of the Law on Civil Servants are actually being achieved. Now the
Agency needs to establish the capacity to reliably and continuously monitor those
indicators. In addition, it will need to program resources to periodically undertake a
careful review o f that data and other information, and use that review to inform
deliberations on what has been achieved and how to further improve the impacts o f the
Governments efforts to create a merit-based, professional civil service that attracts and
retains the human capital skills needed to fillits professional andmanagerial ranks


Social Sector Expenditure Management

65.     Inaddition to these broad improvements inmanagement, the Government will
undertake specific reforms aimed at reducing the costs and increasing the effectiveness of
spending on hospital care, pensions, and social assistance.

66.      Hospital contracting. Public health institutions (HIS)have traditionally been
financed on the basis of line item budget allocations, which limited management


                                             30

flexibility and provided no incentive for cost savings. Budget allocations did not provide
any clear basis for planning or accountability on the part o f healthcare institutions but
instead were based on ad hoc decisions, sometimes in response to expenditure pressures
outside their control. Under the PSMAC's Letter o f Development Policy, the HIFwas to
begin to contract HISon the basis o fprospective annual budgets, with increased flexibility
for managers to reallocate funding between some expenditure categories, and
performance indicators for each public hospital included in the contracts. The contracts
would have provided, for the first time, an auditable basis for the financial relations
between the HIF and the healthcare providers. There were, however, substantial problems
infollow-through with the these actions, which have only recentlybeenresolved. Ajoint
MOH-HIFworking group has now prepared a revisedbylawon hospital contracting and a
draft contract, addressing the problems identified with the previous bylaw. The revised
bylaw was approved by the HIF Board in July 2003 and was published in the Official
Gazette inAugust 2003. Onthe basis o f this bylaw, the HIFhas now negotiated contracts
with 17 specialized hospitals. However, the Bank continues to be concerned about the
complexity o f the contract's data requirements, given the very poor state of health sector
information systems. As a second tranche condition, the HIFwill have collected contract
monitoring data from the contracted hospitals for the first six months o f 2004, analyzed
the data, and provided feedback to hospitals where performance deviates materially from
contract terms. The realism and reliability o f data requirements for monitoring contracts
will be assessedby HIF duringthe first contract period and this assessment will be used
to revise the contracts duringthe next contract period.

67.     Health Insurance for the Unemployed. The PSMAL will lay the foundation for
other medium- and long-term reforms in health and social protection. (These are
summarized in Table 5). One such area i s the provision o f HIF benefits for the
unemployed. At present, these are financed through budget transfers from the
Government and are intended to cover only unemployed people who are eligible for
unemployment insurance due to their previous work histories and contributions to
unemployment insurance. But the overwhelming majority of people who register as
unemployed are not eligible for unemployment benefits, and include people who are
employed in the informal sector, workers on short-term or part-time contracts, and self
employed or recipients o f remittance income from the earnings abroad o f a household
member. These people have a strong incentive to register as unemployed in order to
obtain free health coverage. This presents a formidable administrative burden, as
employment bureaus are now charged with distributing monthly sets o f "blue coupons''
for health insurance benefits to the 230,000 registered unemployed, regardless o f their
actual employment status. It also has adverse fiscal consequences, as chronic deficits in
the Employment Fund compel the Government to pay transfers to the Fundto cover the
premiums ofpeople who are ina position to make contributions on their own.

68.      One solution to this problem would be strengthen the ability o f employment
bureaus to distinguish legitimately registered unemployed job seekers, from persons who
are not participants inthe workforce and persons who are working informally. Illegitimate
claimants could thereby be cut from the rolls and forced to either make contributions or
go without health insurance. But tougher enforcement alone will not solve the underlying


                                            31

policy issue. As long as the Government is committed to universal health care, it will
have to find a means o f either obliging citizens to pay contributions or providing
financing for citizens who cannot be compelled to pay for administrative or policy
reasons.

69.      There are a variety of options. On the one hand, the Government could
aggressively pursue HIF contributions from informal workers, the self employed, and
families deriving income from remittances. Alternatively, it could recognize the difficulty
o f raising revenues from these groups, and cover the HIF's costs through explicit transfers
from the budget. It could do both-subsidizing                 the health insurance premiums o f these
two groups from the general budget, while still requiring some level o f beneficiary
contribution. For the present, the Government intends to pursue the former strategy.
Using Bank-managed Dutch Trust Funds, the Government will contract an external
expert to analyze options and prepare recommendations for broadening the base and
improving the collection o f health insurance contributions (along with pension- and other
social contributions).

70.      Pension Fund Administration. FYR Macedonia's national pension system is
actuarially unsound, due to the large number of pensioners retiring at a relatively young
age and a generous benefit structure. To increase the viability o f the system, the
Government has gradually increased the retirement age, reduced the basis for indexation,
tightened eligibility conditions and reduced maximum replacement rates. It has also
enacted the legal framework for a second pillar, which would be mandatory for new hires
andvoluntary for existing workers andwould be defined contribution-based andprivately
managed. Several issues must be resolved before the second pillar can be implemented,
including the arrangements for financing the transition to the new system,14 the
development o f domestic financial instruments suitable for pension investments, and the
strengthening o f regulatory capacity. The Government is aware o f these preconditions
(they were noted in a recent letter from Bank management) and intends to introduce the
second pillaronly after they are resolved.

71.      Inthe mean time, to improve financial management, the Pension and Disability
Fund has contracted consultants to revise its accounting, budgeting and internal control
procedures to comply with international standards. The consultants are already at work
and are scheduled to complete the diagnostic phase o f their work shortly, and the
implementation phase by the end o f 2005. In addition, the Government intends to
introduce a new system for collecting and tracking pension contributions. The new
system, based on monthly reports collected on an individual basis, will improve the
administration o f the first pillar and provide information required for the creation o f
individual pension accounts under the proposed second pillar. To implement the new
system, changes must be made in the Law on Labor Records, the Law on Personal
Records o f the Insured, and the Pension and Disability Insurance Law itself. The required
changes have now been enacted by Parliament. Relevant bylaws enabling the introduction



l4Contributions to the first pillar will fall once the second pillar is introduced.




                                                        32

o f a new system o f mandatory monthly reporting on individual contributions have also
been approved (April 15) As a condition of second tranche disbursement, the PDF will
develop regulations governing the new reporting requirements and issue the required
reporting forms.

72.     Social Assistance Targeting. The Government also intends to improve the
targeting and administration o f social assistance. There has also been an increase inthe
frequency o f random audits and on-site inspections for example. No decision as to
whether a householdretains, or i s given, a social assistancebenefit is now made without a
site visit. Very little data on the characteristics o f beneficiaries is collected or analyzed,
however. As a result it i s difficult to ascertain the impact o frecent or proposed changes in
social assistance policy. To provide a sounder basis for policy development inthe future,
the Government will conduct a beneficiaryassessment during2004, financed under Bank-
managed DutchTrust Funds.

73.      Child Protection Allowances. The Government will also continue improving the
targeting o f child allowances. Until2000, the child allowances benefit was available only
to households with at least one employed person andwas capped at three children and not
indexed. Although the benefit was income-tested, it was not indexed to inflation, and
therefore, shrank in real terms over time. The small amount o f the transfer and the fact
that its eligibility was restrictedto only those families with employedmembers meant that
it had a very limitedpoverty impact. Legislation adopted inlate 2000 removedthe ceiling
on the maximum amount o f benefit per householdand the requirement that the household
have at least one employed person. It also eased income-testing requirements (which
remained but were stated in vague and general terms) and indexed the benefit to public
sector wages. This would have substantially increased the cost o f the program. It was
never implemented, however, due to cost considerations.

74.      In2003, the legislationwas substantially amended. Theprovisions ofthe new law
include: (a) the removal of the limit o f the number o f children eligible for child
allowances and its replacement by a maximum ceiling of 1,800 MKD; (b) the
establishment of an income test for eligibility equal to 16% o f the average wage during
the first six months o f the previous year (for couples); (c) an age limit of 18 (26 for
disabled children); and (d) the requirement that one member o f the family be employed,
receiving unemployment benefits, continuous social assistance, a pension, or war veteran
benefits or be a farmer who pays taxes. The law also requires that children participate ina
continuous education. Key concerns over the poverty impact o f the new law remain,
however. The Government therefore intends to carry out a thorough analysis o f the child
allowance program inorder to provide the basis for further revisions inthe law. The latter
couldbe incorporatedinthe policy matrix o f the follow-on adjustment operations.




                                               33

                              Table 5 Strategy for Reforms inSocial Sectors
Immediatereforms                                   IMediudLonger-Term Follow-on
                                             HealthSector
 Enact law authorizing hospital performance         Refine contracts based on experience with first
 contracts                                          round
 Sign contracts with 17HIS                          Expandnumber of hospitals subject to contracts
 Assess options      for   administering  health    Implement       improved      system  o f  coupon
 insurance coupons                                  administration
 Conduct control systems audit of HIF               Improve control systems in HIF based on audit
                                                    recommendations
 Assess options for expanding base, improving       Implement measures to expand base and improve
 collection of social contributions                 collection o f social contributions
 Conduct       international      tender     for    Repeat international tendering as required and
 pharmaceuticals                                    implement phase-out o f procurement function
                                                    withinHIF
 Revise pharmacy privatization law to address       If pharmacies are privatized, ensure that terms of
 competition and conflict of interest issues.       revised pharmacy law and HIF by-laws on the
 Implement HIF by-laws on reimbursement o f         reimbursement ofpharmacies are observed
 pharmacies to ensure reasonable, timely and
 transparent compensation levels and ensure
 patient access
                                      Pension and Social Protection
 Amend laws to improve tracking of individual       Complete prior actions for implementation of
 contributions                                      second pillar, including decision on investment
                                                    vehicles, issuance o f Government securities (if
                                                    warranted), development o f regulatory framework
                                                    and strategy for financing transition
 Assess social assistance and child allowance       Revise structure of social assistance and child
 programs                                           assistanceto improvepoverty impact.




                                  THEPROPOSED       LOAN

 Rationale for Bank Involvement

 75.     The Government believes that it must intensify and accelerate its public sector
 management reform efforts to maintain fiscal stability and provide the basis for social
 stability and economic growth. The proposed operation, inconjunction with support from
 the IMF and other donor assistance, i s the Government's prime vehicle for doing so. The
 benefits of the reforms will include the maintenance of macro and fiscal stability through
 improvedbudget planning and financial controls. This will better equip FYR Macedonia
 to cope with extemal shocks and provide the basis for economic growth. By reducing
 opportunities for corruption, reforms in auditing and procurement will free up resources
 for priority programs and improvepublic and investor confidence inthe public sector. By



                                                34

improving the targeting o f social assistance and health insurance subsidies, the project
will improve the living conditions o f the poor. Reforms inthe civil service will provide
Government with the means to develop and implement sound public policies over the
long term.

76.     The Bank is well positioned to assist the Government inimplementing its reform
program. The proposedloan will provide significant support to the Government budget as
FYR Macedonia recovers from the economic downtum provoked by the recent civil
conflict and implements significant structural reforms (including IMF-supported tax
reforms and the introduction o f a domestic market in Government bonds. In addition to
financial assistance, the Bank has brought to be its considerable experience inthe design
and implementation o f such reform programs. The Government will be able to continue
drawing on this experience as it implements the reforms.

77.     Links to the CAS.The most recent CAS was discussed bythe Board o f Executive
Directors in September 2003. It identifies three main objectives for Bank intervention: (a)
to promote the efficient management o f public resources and tackle corruption; (b) to
promote reconciliation, build human capital and protect the most vulnerable; and (c) to
promote the creation o fjobs through private-sector-drivengrowth.

78.     The proposed operation would focus primarily on the first two o f these objectives.
To promote the efficient management o f public resources, the proposed Public Sector
Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL) supports improvements inbudget planningand
execution, auditing, procurement, and civil service. Improvements in the targeting o f
social assistance, along with management reforms in health care, will benefit vulnerable
populations. Technical assistance to implement these reforms will be financed through
the ongoing Dutch Trust Fund, as well as the complementary Health Sector Reform
Project and the Social Protection Implementation Project, also planned for FY04. As
progressively deeper reform o f public administration is currently anticipated through the
CAS period, the Bank will also look, as part o f a high case lending program, to
commence a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL I)in FY05, to be
followed by a second operation (PSAL     n> inFY06. The PSAL operations are planned to
support both the improvement o f public sector management and reforms to improve the
investment climate.

79.     The PSMAL is a high-case lending operation. At this time, the Government has
met the macroeconomic performance trigger for the high case (TBC). (A Standby
Arrangement with the IMF is in effect through June 30, 2004.) The portfolio
implementation trigger has also been satisfied, along with two o f the structural reforms.
One structural conditions has not yet been fully satisfied. The CAS also calls for the
completion o f an audit o f the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) and the development o f an
action plan to implement its recommendations. While the audit is well underway (as
noted earlier) it is not expected to be completed untilmid-June. (Completion o f the HIF
audit and the subsequent actionplanis a second tranche condition.)




                                            35

80.     The high case scenario also calls for progress toward achieving certain CAS
outcome benchmarks. Satisfactory progress has been made on two conditions directly
supported by the PSMAL: the integration o f extrabudgetary funds into the budget and
treasury and adequate external audit coverage o f budget users. The Government has
provided written satisfactory evidence that a third benchmark--public access to agreed
poverty monitoring data bases-has      also beenmet.


Benefits and Risks

81.     The benefits o f the reforms will include the achievement o f macro and fiscal
stability through improved budget planningand financial controls. This will better equip
FYRMacedonia to cope with external shocks andprovidethe basis for economic growth.
By reducing opportunities for corruption, it will free up resources for priority programs
and improve public (and investor) confidence in the public sector. By improving the
targeting o f social assistance and health insurance subsidies, it will improve the living
conditions of the poor. Reforms inthe civil service will provide the Government with the
means to develop andimplement sound public policies over the longterm.

82.     The proposed PSMAL also entails political and implementation risks. At present,
the threat o f renewed political turmoil and ethnic violence is modest and diminishing.
The successful conduct o f the recent election andthe absence o f any major spillover from
the recent outbreak o f ethnic violence in Kosovo are promising signs. But the difficult
economic reform agenda that lies aheadmay create social stressesthat could translate into
waning political commitment on the part o f the Government. This is already evident in
the recent disputes over pharmaceuticalprocurement. The implementation capacity o f the
Government i s also limited. FYR Macedonia is a small country and has requires
additional trained staff even at the highest levels o f Government.

83.     Not all these risks can be addressed by the Bank-particularly    the political ones.
But several features o f the loan will mitigate--or reduce Bank exposure--to them. First,
manyo fthe keyreforms will be completedbefore the operationispresented to the Board.
There is no "progress toward reform" inthe matrix, nor are there intermediate steps that
could be easily reversed. The matrix requires Parliamentary enactment (rather than
submission to Parliament) o f the key legislation on procurement and civil service.
Second, actions that cannot be fully completedbefore Boardhave beenplaced ina second
tranche, which is back-loaded to ensure that the Government has a strong incentive to
complete them. (Two-thirds o f the loan disburses inthe second tranche.)

84.     This proviso applies with particular force to the reforms in pharmaceutical
procurement. Inprinciple, the ICB process might be considered completed once the HIF
publishes international invitations to prequalify. But until contracts are signed with
winning bidders, the Government could halt the process at little cost to itself. The
PSMAL matrix therefore would require signed contracts with winningbidders as proofo f
compliance. As noted earlier, the time required to complete the tendering process will
require this action to be incorporated in a second tranche. The Government's ability to
complete the process should nevertheless be evident at the anticipated time of Board


                                              36

presentation (as should its ability to comply with actions pertaining to the audit o f the
HIF). With the exception of the two health-related actions, reforms that cannot be
completed prior to Boardpresentationwould be incorporated inthe two proposed follow-
on adjustment operations (PSALs 1and2).

85.     Implementation risks will also be mitigated through the ample use o f donor-
financed technical assistance, as noted earlier. Assistance for reforms in health care and
social protection will also be provided through projects in both those sectors, currently
under preparation.


Coordinationwith the IMF

86.     As noted earlier, the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement with the Government
inApril 2003, covering the 14month period through June 30, 2004. (The Arrangement
called for a government budget deficit equal to 2 percent o f GDP in 2003 and 1.2515
percent o f GDP in2004. This was to be achieved by increasingthe rate o f the VAT (from
5 percent to 18 percent on most non-food items) and freezing public employment and
wages through the end o f 2003. Government spending on security and subsidies to the
health insurance fund would also be cut. The Fund is also closely involved in the


                                                                        ~          ~




                     Box 1: Coordinationwith the IMFonHealthCareReforms

         The proposed elimination o f general budget subsidies to the HIF has immediate
 implications for PSMAL-supported reforms in health care. The PSMAL team has worked
 closely with the IMF team to define measures to achieve the deficit target without
 jeopardizing these reforms. One such area i s pharmaceutical procurement. To comply with the
 terms o f the Standby Arrangement, the HIF committed itself to making savings o f at least 20
 percent in the price o f pharmaceuticals starting in the second half o f 2003. As international
 tendering cannot be completed within this time frame, these cuts are to be accomplished
 through a mix o fnegotiated reductions with existing suppliers andnew tenders. To ensure that
 this does not forestall the proposed international procurement, the HIF and IMF have agreed
 that these interim contracts will expire before the expected signing date of contracts for
 pharmaceutical procuredunder ICB.

         The Standby Arrangement also anticipated a substantial reduction in health sector
 staff. Duringthe first review o f the Standby Arrangement, the Government committed itselfto
 reducing staff by 4 percent. It proposed to do so largely through attrition and voluntary
 departures. Inprinciple, this runs the risk o f adverse selection: the most qualified staff might
 be the first to leave. The IMF team, itself, was reluctant to accept the Government's strategy
 on the grounds that its adverse effects on quality o f health care would create pressure to re-
 hire staff later. The PSMAL team has worked closely with the IMF and the Government to
 findways to mitigate any impact on quality.




l5Thiswassubsequentlyincreasedto 1.4%ofGDP.




                                                 37

formulation o fthe Government's annual budget.

87.     The Standby Arrangement has several implications for the PSMAL. First, it
includes two structural benchmarks which directly support reforms to be incorporated in
the proposed operation: (a) the introduction o f commitment controls over certain
government transactions; and (b) the initiation o f an extemal audit o f the HIF.The IMF
has assumed responsibility for monitoring compliance with the first o f these; the Bank is
responsible for the second.

88.     Second, the Standby Arrangement's deficit targets, along with related discussions
of the Government's budget, have implications for reforms in other aspects of public
sector management. The proposed elimination o f subsidies to the HIF have immediate
implications for PSMAL-supported reforms inhealth care as noted earlier inBox 1. The
Fund's recent budget discussionswith the Government also affect the scale andtiming of
wage decompression. The agreed-upon deficit target for 2004 (0.9% of GDP) is
predicated upon a reduction inthe overall wage bill (from 8.2% o f GDP in2003 to 7.9%
of GDP in2004). This i s to be achieved through a continuation o f the freeze on net hiring
(except in certain categories) and nominal wages, as well as an overall 4 percent
reduction inpublic employment. As noted earlier, wage decompression will require some
increase in the wage bill o f civil servants. These are not absolute constraints on reform,
however. As discussed inBox 1, the Bank and the IMF have agreed on arrangementsfor
achieving their respective objectives in the health sector. The Bank and Fundhave also
reachedagreementon a mutuallyacceptable financing package for wage decompression.

89.     Bilateral donors have beeninstrumental inassisting the Government to implement
reforms initiated under the PSMAC and would continue to play a major role in
implementing PSMAL-supported reforms. As shown in Table 6, Dutch Trust Funds
(totaling USD 3.775 million) are supporting ten o f the reforms proposed in the PSMAL
matrix. These include the extemal audit of the HIF and technical assistance for
procurement reforms inthe MOF andHIF.Althoughthere have been substantial delays in
the consultant procurement process, work i s now underway inthe majority o f cases. The
Dutch Government will also provide US$ 17 million in macroeconomic support in
conjunction with the PSMAL operation. Bilateral aide from the U.S. Government has
supported reforms in budget formulation. British Government fimding has supported
reforms inthe General Secretariat.




                                             38

            Table6: StatusofMajor Activities FinancedWith DutchTrust Funds




              Equipment for training inhospitalcontracting    Government procuring goods
MOF PCU       and revenue collectiontraining
MOFPCU        Public information campaign on contracting and Government (HIF)redraftingTORs
              pharmaceutical reforms
HIF/MOH       Foreign consultant to advise onprivatization o f Government drafting TORs
              dentistry andpharmacy
MLSP          Socialprotectionbeneficiary assessment           Government drafting TORs
SA0           Organizationalstrengthening                      Contract signed, work underway



BoardConditions,Tranche Triggersand Supervision

90.     As described in the preceding text and summarized in Annex 5, the PSMAL
policy matrix consists o f sixteen conditions for Board presentation and fifteen conditions
to be fulfilled by second tranche disbursement. Key conditions for Board presentation
included enactment o fa new procurement law and amendments to civil service legislation
authorizing civil service wage decompression. The Government was also required to
submit legislation to Parliament that would permit the SA0 to focus on highrisk entities,
andrequire itto monitor anddisseminate the Government's responses to its findings.

91.     There are four core conditions for second tranche disbursement: (i)      creation o f a
fully operational public procurement bureau within the Ministry o f Finance; (ii)
satisfactory implementation o f civil service salary decompression; (iii)    completion o f a
systems audit o f the HIF and Government approval o f an action plan based on its
recommendations; and (iv) adoption o f international tendering as the method for
procuring the state-subsidized pharmaceuticals (including the completion o f the
contracting process itself.) Due to the importance of these second tranche conditions, the
loan is back-loaded. US$10 million (plus the US$300,000 front end fee) would disburse



                                             39

once the loan is declared effective. The remainder will disburse only after the four core
second tranche conditions have been met, along with the majority o f non-core conditions
and actions specified inthe Letter o f Development Policy.

92.     The PSMAL's counterpart team i s led by the Minister o f Finance, who will be in
charge o f overseeing implementation on a continuous basis. While a project
implementation unit has been established in the Ministry o f Finance, its role is (and will
continue to be) limited to overseeing the administration o f Dutch Trust Funds.
Responsibility for implementing reforms inspecific agencies and ministries will rest with
their respective permanent staff, with support from the MOF.

93.     An initial monitoring system was launched under the PSMAC. This will be
revised to reflect the expanded scope o f this operation. These revisions will be based on
discussions with the General Secretariat, the MOF, MLSP, CSA, HIF, and PDF, with the
assistance o f a DFID-financed technical assistance project. The General Secretariat is to
take responsibility for coordinating this effort. A set o f monitoring indicators on budget
management has already been uponbythe MOF.


LoanAdministration

94.     The proposed loan will be implemented by the Ministry o f Finance. It will be
released in two tranches o f US$10 million and US$20 million, respectively, will be a
single currency loan with a 17-year maturity, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard LIBOR interest rate. (As the borrower has decided to capitalize the front-
end fee, the net first tranche release will be US$10.3 million.

95.     Disbursement. Upon approval o f the loan and notification by the Bank of loan
effectiveness, the Government will submit a withdrawal application for the loan's first
tranche. The second tranche will be floating and will be released when the conditions
pertaining to it have been satisfactorily completed. The Ministry o f Finance will open and
maintain a deposit account inthe National Bank o f Macedonia. The IBRDwill deposit all
proceeds o f the Loan inthis account at the request o f the Ministry o f Finance. The SDA
shall produce quarterly reports the format o f which is attached to the Minutes o f
Negotiations. The SDA will be audited annually according to auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank. If,after deposit inthis account, the proceeds of the Loan are used
for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance items imported from non-member
countries, or goods or services on the IBRD's standard negative list), the IBRD will
require the borrower to either: (i) that amount to the account for use for eligible
                                     retum
purposes; or (ii)  refund the amount directly to the IBRD, in which case the IBRD will
cancel an equivalent undisbursedamount of the loan. The closing date o f the loanwill be
June 30,2005.




                                               40

PovertyImplications

96.      From an international perspective, poverty in FYR Macedonia is moderate, with
7.5 percent of the population with per capita consumption below the international
standard o f $2.15 per day in 2000.16 Data from the 2000 official Household Budget
Survey (HBS) indicate moderate relative poverty, with 20 percent o f the population
falling below 60 percent o f median equivalent income. But poverty is persistent. Modest
but volatile growth since 1996 has been countered by rising inequality o f incomes over
the same period, leaving poverty rates unchanged during 1996-2000 (as measured against
constant real national standard^).'^ Unemployment and underemployment are high, and
are strongly correlatedwith poverty.

97.      The proposed operation will directly improve the lives o f the poor intwo respects.
First the reforms to the health sector--improved management inthe health insurance fund
and substantially reduced pharmaceutical costs--will free additional HIF resources for
spending on state-financed health care. Second, improvements in the targeting o f social
assistance, child allowances, and other forms o f social protection will ensure funds are
allocated to those most in need. The broader reforms aimed at improving budget
allocation and reducing corruption throughout the public sector will benefit the poor by
freeing up resources for priority programs.


EnvironmentalImpact

98.      The PSMAL will have no direct impact on the environment. For the purpose of
Operational Directives 4.01, it has been placed in Category Cywhich does not require an
environmental assessment.




l6ECA,US$2.15isusedastheabsolutepovertylineinsteadof$1duetoheatingcosts.
   In

l7 Poverty measuredusing an d a t i o n adjusted consumptionbasket has been relatively constant, with a 12
percent increase inreal personal consumptionbetween 1996-2000 which was fully offset byworsening
income distribution.



                                                    41

ANNEX1: MAINECONOMIC
                   INDICATORS




               42

rs excluding oficial capital grants.




                         43

            ANNEX2: STATUSOFBANKGROUP IFC OPERATIONS AND

                                    BANKGROUP       OPERATIONS

                                     Closed Projects              19



IBRDllDA*
   Total Disbursed (Active)                                                  53.86
         of which has been repaid                                             2.99
   Total Disbursed (Closed)                                                 460.85
         of which has been repaid                                            14.10
   Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)                                514,713,524.61
         of which has been repaid                                    17,089,742.76


   Total Undisbursed(Active)                                                 49.58

   Total Undisbursed(Closed)                                                  0.00
   Total Undisbursed(Active+ Closed)                                 49,578,283.41




                                                   44

P
z                   r   o
                    r - N
                     m  a
p:                  r - N
                    0 0
                    2 %
                     r  m
      LL




                co
               0
               0
               32



      a x m m m
      0

      n
      K
      m

                                Statement of IFC's
                            Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                   As of 12/31/03




2001       Komercijalna        4.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  4.0   0.0   0.0  0.0
2003       MFB Macedonia       0.0    1.I 0.0     0.0  0.0   1.1   0.0  0.0
1998       Macedonia Telcom    0.0    11.3  0.0   0.0  0.0   11.3  0.0  0.0
1997       Makedonija          1.4    0.0   0.0   0.0  1.4   0.0   0.0  0.0
1997       Nikol-Fert          3.8    0.0   0.0   0.0  3.3   0.0   0.0  0.0
1999       SEAF Macedonia      0.0    1.3   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0
1997       SEF Masinomont      0.4    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.4   0.0   0.0  0.0
1998/2000/ Stopanska Banka     0.0    2.5   8.0   0.0  0.0   2.3   8.0  0.0
2001/2003
1997/2002 Teteks               5.5    0.0   0.0   0.0  4.2   0.0   0.0  0.0
Total                          15.2  16.3   15.1 0.0   13.4 14.7  10.4 0.0
Portfolio:




                                         46

ANNEX3: TIMETABLEOFKEYPROCESSINGEVENTS




                    47

                  ANNEX4: LETTER DEVELOPMENT
                                       OF                  POLICY




       Letter o fDevelopment Policy Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan




Dear Mr.Wolfensohn.

Macedonia is at an important stage in its development. After the dislocations that
followed independence and the civil disturbances o f2001, we now enjoy a stable political
environment-both     regional and domestic. The economy is also turning around. GDP
declined 4.5% in2001 and grew by only 0.7% in2002. Robust economic growth has now
resumed (3.1% in2003). InMay, 2003, we signed a standby arrangement with the IMF,
andwe have successfully achievedits macroeconomictargets.

Public sector management is a keypart ofthe Government's development strategy. Many
o fthe weakness ofpublic administration were identified inthe World Bank's 2000 public
expenditure and institutional review. A down payment on reform was made under the
previous administration, in connection with the previous Bank-supported adjustment
operation, PSMAC. It is clear that now we have to expand the scope and ensure the
implementation ofthose reforms. Political stability andthe resumption o f growth provide
us with the opportunity to do so.

The reform program we are putting in place focuses on public sector resource
management--budget formulation and execution, auditing and procurement reform-and
on civil service reform. At the sectoral level we are focusing on expenditure management
in health care, which is both a fiscal risk and a key element of our effort to reduce
poverty. We recognize that this is difficult to do and requires more than mere words.
Therefore we have taken care to ensure that reforms are backed not only by new
legislation and byelaws, but also by the creation o f new specialized units for procurement
and internal audit, and by actions (such as website publication) that will ensure that the
public is able to monitor our progress.

Budgetformulation and execution        We have made great strides in budget formulation.
For the first time, the initial budget circular for 2004 established fixed spending ceilings
for each o f the first line budget users. Budget requests in excess of the ceilings were
rejected and sent back for adjustment. As a result, the final budget submitted by the
Government to Parliament was well within the macroeconomic ceiling specified in the
original budget circular and allocations among individual budget users matched their
respective initial budget ceilings. Iam pleased to report that the resulting budget was



                                              48

approved largely intact by Parliament. We fully intend to continue these practices in
formulating the 2005 budget andinsubsequent budgetformulation exercises.

We have made significant progress in budget execution. Concept o f the treasury single
account is fully implemented. All budgetary funds, special revenues andpart o f the donor
funds are now deposited in the single treasury account at the National Bank o f the
Republic o f Macedonia, which allows us to better manage the Government's liquidity.
We further improved cash planningby extending the projection period and introducing
quarterly financial plans. We recently implemented a commitment control module that
can accommodate in-year and multi-year commitments and are now in the process o f
transferring the deposits o f extra budgetary funds (EBFs) into the single treasury account.
The HIF will be the pilot institution in this regard, with other EBFs to follow. We will
complete the transfer o f the HIF funds by the end o f November 2004 and will complete
the preparatoryprocess for transferring the remaining EBF accounts bythe end o fyear.

Audit andprocurement            The main weaknesses inpublic financial management now
lie in audit and procurement. With respect to internal audit, we have now approved an
Act o f Systematization creating an internal audit department inthe MOF, reporting to the
Minister o f Finance. . We expect to fully staff the department by the fourth quarter o f
2004. We are also moving to create internal audit units in other budget entities in
accordance with the developed Action Plan for establishment o f Internal Audit units in 17
first line budget users and extra-budgetary funds. The HIF Board has now approved the
act o f systematization creating an internal audit unit inthat entity. We expect that at least
two internal audit units will be created during2004 andthat internal audit units will exist
inall first linebudget entities andEBFswith expenditures inexcess o f500milliondenars
bythe endo f2006.

With respect to external audit, Ican report that Parliament has now approved legislation
that will permit the State Audit Office (SAO) to adopt a more risk-based approach to the
choice o f entities to be audited. This same legislationwill also require the SA0 to prepare
a report on the key problems it detects during its annual audits, and the Government's
response to them. Starting in the fourth quarter o f 2004, both the annual audits and the
reports on systemic weakness will be make available to the public on a regular basis.

With respect to procurement reform, we have drafted a new Law on Public Procurement
(LPP), which reflects the recommendations o f the World Bank, EU directives and is
consistent with international standards and best practice. This was submitted to
Government and has now been enacted by Parliament. We are now in the process o f
preparing the detailed implementing regulations and standard procurement documents
required to implement the new law. To ensure that the LPP is enforced, we will soon
establish a Public Procurement Bureau within the Ministry, reporting directly to the
Government andto the Ministry o f Finance.

To improve transparency, we intend to publish the Register o f Performed Public
Procurement and the findings of the Public Procurement Complaints Committee on our
website on a regular basis. To improve interagency information sharing, we will ensure



                                              49

that the audit reports prepared by our Internal Audit Department are regularly
disseminated to the MOF Public Procurement Unit and are available upon request to the
State Audit Office.

Problems in financial management are particularly acute in the health sector. To
determine the causes of the problem and ways to address them, we have contracted the
firmofErnst andYoung to conduct a financial control systems audit ofthe HIF.The firm
has now completed its draft report, which we are evaluating. Based on the report, the HIF,
incooperation with the SAO, will prepare an action plan, which will be approved bythe
Government, to address the most severe problems identified in the report. We intend to
begin implementing the action planinlater this year.

Pharmaceuticals are a particular focus of our efforts at procurement reform. On the basis
o f a Memorandum of Understanding signed by myself, the Minister of Health and the
Deputy Director of the HIF, the HIF is in the process o f conducting an international
tender for pharmaceuticals. To expedite the process, the Ministry o f Health
(Pharmaceutical Bureau within the Ministry o fHealth) has streamlined the procedures for
issuing marketing authorizations for pharmaceuticals on its positive list. W e expect to
have signed contracts with winningbidders by October 2004.

W e recognize that benefits of international tenderingcould be undercut ifthe HIFreaches
disadvantageous agreements with the pharmacies responsible for distributingpositive-list
pharmaceuticals. A s the Government intends to privatize the state owned pharmacies that
are now perform this function, we intend to adopt bylaws that establish reimbursement
mechanisms that ensure cost-containment and ensure that contracts to distribute positive
list pharmaceuticals are open to all qualified pharmacies.

Civil service reform   We have made substantial progress in civil service reform. In
connection with the previous adjustment operation (PSMAC), Parliament enacted a new
L a w on Civil Servants that established specific procedures for civil service recruitment, a
uniform, rule-based, and less-compressed        salary structure for civil servants, and an
independent Agency for Civil Servants (CSA) to oversee its administration. Until
recently, however, Government ministries have been able to bypass the law's recruitment
requirements. Wage decompression has beenrepeatedly postponed.

To ensure that civil service recruitment proceduresare enforced, the budget execution law
for 2004 now forbids the registration of new employees in the entities which employee
civil servants untilthe CSA has verified that the requesting entity has complied with civil
service recruitment procedures (ifthe position i s covered by the Law on Civil Servants).
The same provision will be included inthe budget execution law for 2005. W e intend to
eventually include this stipulation inthe organic budget law.

W e have also begun the process of wage decompression. To reduce the costs of this
reform, the Parliament has repealed a provision from the civil service law (the so-called
hold harmless provision ) that prohibited any reductions in existing salaries. To further
reduce costs, the Government has chosen to delay the start of wage decompression until



                                             50

April 1, 2004, for payments in May, 2004 and to implement it over the following 24
months. The changes in salaries will be made in equal monthly installments. We have
undertaken several technical steps to ensure that wage decompression proceeds smoothly.
Inter alia, we have completed the salary scale simulations needed to identify a point value
that will yield the fiscal impact agreed with the Bank and the IMF, and have verified that
that titles and assignment decisions are consistent with systematization acts and the Law
on Civil Servants. Later inthe year, we will submit a supplemental budget to Parliament
that will provide sufficient funding to finance the planned wage decompression during
2004.

Hospital contracting Under the terms o f the previous adjustment operation, the HIFwas
to begin contracting individual health institutions on the basis o f prospective annual
budgets, with increased flexibility for managers to reallocate funding between some
expenditure categories, and performance indicators for each public hospital included in
the contracts. This was identified as a critical element o f controlling hospital expenditures
by the HIF. There were, however, substantial problems in follow-through with these
actions. A joint MOH-HIF working group has now prepared a revised bylaw on hospital
contracting and a draft contract, which has been approved by the HIF Board and
published in the Official Gazette. On the basis o f this bylaw, the HIF has negotiated
contracts with 17 specialized hospitals. The HIF is now collecting monitoring data from
the contracted hospitals and will provide feedback to hospitals where performance
deviates materially from contract terms. To fine-tune the contracts, the HIF will assess
the realism and reliability of the data they require and will use this information to revise
the contracts duringthe next contract period.

Health insurance administration: We also intend to implement overhaul o f the system
used to provide health insurance benefits to the unemployed through implementation o f a
new more sophisticated way to exercise the right to health insurance. This is due to the
fact that current way o f the monthly distribution o f the blue health coupons for
approximately 230,000 registered unemployed i s a huge administrative burden for the
Employment Bureau. The current solution has negative influence on the overall
performance o f the basic functions o f the Bureau. The new system should decrease the
costs for printing and distribution o f the blue health coupons. To reduce the costs o f
administering these benefits, we have contracted a consultant to propose alternative
procedures for issuing insurance cards. These will range from a reduction in the
frequency with which existing coupons must be renewed to the introduction o f a single
insuree cards and/or numbers to cover multiple entitlements.

Addressing the problem o f ineligible beneficiaries will be more complicated. Our policy
is to aggressively pursue HIF contributions from all those who are legally required to
make them and to ensure that all those who have the means to pay contributions from
their earnings have a clear obligation to do so. This includes people who are employed in
the informal sector, workers on short term or part-time contracts, the self employed, and
recipients o fremittance income from the earnings abroad o f a household member. To this
end, we have contracted a second consultant to analyze the options for improving the




                                              51

collection o f health insurance contributions (along with pension- and other social
contributions) from these groups.

Social Sector Spending        Inaddition to these broad improvements inmanagement,
the Government will undertake specific reforms aimed at increasingthe effectiveness o f
spending on pensions, social assistance, and child allowances.

Pension Fund Administration           Our present national pension system is experiencing
shortfalls which are likely to continue, due primarily to the increasing ratio o f
beneficiaries to contributors. To increase the viability o f the system, we have introduced
a gradual increase in the retirement age, reduced the basis for indexation, tightened
eligibility conditions and reduced maximum replacement rates. Inaddition, we enacted
the legal framework for a second pillar, which will be mandatory for new hires and
voluntary for existing workers. The second pillar will be defined-contribution-based and
privately managed. We recognize that several issues must be resolved before the second
pillar can be implemented, including the arrangements for financing the transition to the
new system, the development o f domestic financial instruments suitable for pension
investments, and the strengthening o f the capacities for regulation and supervision o f the
new system   .W e will introduce the second pillar after these issues are resolved.

Inthe mean time, we are working to improve the existing system. To this end, the
Pension and Disability Fund (PDF) has contracted consultants to revise its accounting,
budgeting and internal control procedures to comply with international standards. The
consultants have now completed the diagnostic phase o f their work and are scheduled to
complete the implementation phase by the end o f 2005. In addition, we intend to
introduce a new system for collection and record-keeping on pensioncontributions. This
will improve the administration o f the first pillar and provide the critical information for
the creation of individual pension accounts in the second pillar. For this purpose,
Parliament has amended the Pension andDisability Insurance Law, adopted new Law on
Records from the Labor Area, and new Law on Personal Records o f the InsuredPersons
to require the submission o f monthly records o f pension contributions for each individual
employee. The relevant by-laws have also been approved andwe are now ina process o f
drafting the regulations governing new reporting requirements and the required reporting
forms. These will be promulgated later in2004.

Social Assistance Targeting We also intend to improve the targeting and administering
of social welfare. Certain steps inthis direction have already been undertaken. Regarding
the entitlement to social cash allowance, we made the criteria and conditions more
precise, which above all is to the end o f more equal allocation, i.e. targeting the welfare
towards the poorest categories o f the population. We also increased the frequency o f
unannounced controls and on-site inspections and with such continuous direct insight in
the households during the whole year, we actually targeted the welfare primarilytowards
the citizens who need it. We no longer make decisions whether a household should
receive or retain welfare without on-site visit.




                                             52

We also made changes with respect to working engagement o f the welfare beneficiaries
and their active inclusion in the labour market via cooperation with the local authorities,
public enterprises and public institutions.

To provide a sounder basis for policy development in the future, we will conduct a
welfare beneficiary assessment study, financedunder Bank-managed Dutch Trust Funds.

Child Protection Allowances.         The Government will also continue improving the
targeting o f child allowances. Until2000, the child allowances benefit was available only
to households with at least one employedperson and was capped at three children andnot
indexed. Although the benefit was income-tested, it was not indexed to inflation, and
therefore, shrank inreal terms over time. The small amount o f the transfer and the fact
that its eligibility was restrictedto only those families with employedmembers meant that
it had a very limited poverty impact.       Legislation adopted in late 2000 removed the
ceiling on the maximum amount o f benefit per household and the requirement that the
household have at least one employed person. It also eased income-testing requirements
(which remained but were stated in vague and general terms) and indexed the benefit to
public sector wages. This would have substantially increased the cost o f the program. It
was never implemented, however, due to cost considerations.

In 2003, the legislation was substantially amended. The provisions of the new law
include: (a) the removal o f the limit of the number o f children eligible for child
allowances and its replacement by a maximum ceiling o f 1,800 MKD; (b) the lowest
amount o f average monthly income and earnings per household member for entitlement
to child allowance is 16% o f the average wage paid per employee in the Republic o f
Macedonia duringthe first six months o f the previous year, and for single parent it is 32%
o f the same base;      (c) an age limit of 18 (26 for disabled children); and (d) the
requirement that one member o f the family be employed, receiving unemployment
benefits, permanent social assistance, a pension, or war veteran benefits or be a farmer
who pays taxes, or craftsmanwho performs traditional crafts and craftsman who performs
scarce craftwork activities. The law also requires that children participate ina continuous
education. Key concerns over the poverty impact o f the new law remain, however. The
Government therefore intends to cany out a thorough analysis of the child allowance
program inorder to provide the basis for fbrther revisions inthe law. The latter could be
incorporatedinthe policymatrix o f the follow-on adjustment operations.

Employment of Disabled People. The employment o f disabled people has been regulated
bythe 2000 Law on Employment o fDisabled People and the Regulations for the Criteria
and Manner of Allocating Assets from the Special Fund for Creating Employment and
Working Conditions for Disabled Persons. Although the pre-procedures for the
employment of disabled people are satisfactory as are the criteria for allocating assets,
problems have emerged during implementation. To address this issue, we have recently
prepared the amendments to the Law on Employment o f Disabled persons. The
amendments aim at improving conditions for the employment o f disabled persons, as well
as enabled auditing and control by the NEB and the State Labor Inspectorate (SLI),
especially interms o fhow the allocated funds are utilized.



                                               53

Access to poverty data: In order to improve the quality o f poverty analysis, we have
taken steps to improve access to poverty data for Government institutions and
international organizations, in accordance with EUROSTAT standards. We have reached
agreement with the Statistical Office on a procedure for sharing the raw data (excluding
the names of individual respondents) from the Household Budget Survey andLabor Force
Survey andwill monitor its implementation.

Monitoring     Finally, we are taking steps to improve the monitoring o f the institutional
and governance reforms we are undertaking. An initial set o f indicators was established
under the PSMAC operation. These have been updated. We have also developed a
broader set of expenditure management and civil service indicators. We will produce
baseline measurements for these indicators byOctober 2004, andwill continue to monitor
them thereafter.

Inconclusion, we sincerely believe that the World Bank is going to support the above
mentioned reform activities enclosed in this letter. Also, Iwould like to express my
utmost gratitude for the enormous support that the World Bank has been and is
continuously givingto the Republic o fMacedonia.




                                           54

        ANNEX 4A: INTERNATIONAL TENDERING            FOR PHARMACEUTICALS

This memorandum describes the approach recommended by the World Bank for
international tendering by the HIF for the procurement o fpharmaceuticals on the positive
list, based o n the requirements o f Macedonian Law. It provides the basis for a mutual
agreement among the Ministry o f Finance (MOF), Ministry o f Health (MOH) and Health
Insurance Fund (HIF) about the basis that will be used for carrying out international
tendering in the context o f the PSMAL program. The Chart attached as Annex 1 (not
attached) sets out the stages and indicative time table for international tendering, as
explained in more detail below. Annex 2 (not attached) is a copy o f the Terms o f
Reference (TOR) for an international Pharmaceuticals Procurement Expert who will be
engaged by the MOF using Dutch Trust Funds to provide detailed expert advice to the
HF on the procurement of pharmaceuticals, consistent with the relevant Macedonian
laws. These TORShave been approved by the Director o f the Health Insurance Fund(see
letter o f agreement and supporting statement o fthe Director o f the Pharmaceutical Bureau
inAnnex 3).

     1. Internationaltendering shouldbe used for drugs on the positive list o fprescription
         drugs and for high costhigh volume drugs on the positive list for hospital drugs
         that are available from multiple sources. There is a small number o f drugs and
        related therapeutic substances for which international competitive tendering may
         not be appropriate (for example, where the product is available from a single
         source). The international pharmaceuticals procurement expert will provide
         detailed advice to the HIF on which positive list drugs that are suitable for
        procurement by international tender.

     2. A procurement process based on pre-qualification o f bidders, followed by
         tendering only among prequalified bidders i s recommended for procurement o f
         pharmaceuticals, which is permitted under Articles 33-41 o f the Macedonia Law
         on Public Procurement Law (LPP). The requirements o f the LPP for international
         tendering (Articles 14.2), including international advertisement o f the tender,
         would also apply.

     3. It is not required for bidders in the international tender to be registered as
         companies or as pharmaceuticals suppliers in Macedonia. It is acceptable for
         foreign bidders in the tender to demonstrate that they are registered in their
         country o f origin. This is the view o f the Ministry o f Finance regarding
         interpretation o f Article 35 o fthe LPP.

     4. It i s not required for bidders to possess a marketing authorizatiodpermit issued by
         the Pharmaceuticals Bureau under the Drugs Law as a condition o f participation
         inthe pre-qualificationor biddingstageofaninternationaltender. The Drugs Law
         (Article 6) requires a marketingauthorizatiordpermit to be obtainedas a condition
         o f placing the pharmaceutical product on the market: that is, the requirement to
         obtain marketing authorization should be treated as a condition for signature o f



                                               55

   contract. This understandingo f the Drugs Law is confirmed by the opinion of the
   Director of the Pharmaceuticals Bureau (in a letter agreed with the Minister o f
   Health and the Director o f the Health Insurance Fund, attached as Annex 3) (not
   attached). However, all pre-qualified firms should be encouraged to commence
   the marketing authorization process as early as possible.

5. In the advertisementhotice for the pre-qualification stage o f the international
  tender for pharmaceuticals, the HIF should define the list o f drugs to be procured
   through the tender (the notice could refer to the official documents and or web-
   sites which define the positive list o f drugs for Macedonia), and describe the
   information requirements for pre-qualification as set out in the LPP. The
  international pharmaceuticals procurement adviser will provide detailed advice to
  the HIF on the drafting of the advertisementhotice for the pre-qualification stage
   and the criteria for pre-qualification. The criteria for pre-qualification would
   ensure that only quality-assured manufacturers and suppliers of pharmaceuticals
  participate in the bidding process. The criteria would include, for example, such
   things as requirement for manufacturers of drugs to meet GMP (Good
  Manufacturing Practice) standards adopted by the reference country under the
   Drugs Law or World Health Organization GMP standards, and evidence that the
  bidderhas suppliedthese drugs to the market inMacedonia or to other countries
   insimilarquantities withinthe pastthree years.

6. The pre-qualification documents should describe the requirements and
  procedures, including indicative timings, that suppliers will need to undergo as
   conditions o f contract to supply drugs to the Macedonian market. This would
   include a description o f the requirements for obtaining market authorization from
   the Pharmaceutical Bureau of the MOH, andprovide details o fhow andwhere the
   suppliers should apply for marketingauthorization, what steps are required inthe
   process of obtaining marketing authorization, what information is requiredinthis
   process, and what are the maximum timeframes the Pharmaceutical Bureau will
   meet in responding to applications for marketing authorization. The bidding
   documents should explain the abridged licensing procedure, which applies to
   suppliers whose products ax-e licensed in specified reference countries (US, EU,
   Canada, Japan, Ex-Yugoslavian Republics: Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia and
   Montenegro). They should also explain the complete/full licensing procedure,
   which applies to suppliers whose products are not licensed in the reference
   countries. The notice would also include a description o f other regulations
   governing importation and wholesale distribution o f pharmaceuticals in the
   Macedonian market, which the supplier would need to meet as conditions of
   contract for supply.

7. The HF should formally notify all pre-qualified firms to begin the process for
   applying for marketingauthorization to the Pharmaceuticals Bureau. Inthe case o f
   foreign suppliers, they will need to appoint an authorized representative with a
  permanent address in Macedonia to submit the application for marketing



                                        56

    authorization on their behalf. The Drugs Law (Article 27) requires foreign
    producers, as a precondition of applying for marketing authorization, either to
    register an office in Macedonia,        to authorize another organization with a
    permanent address in Macedonia to act as their authorized representative. This
    authorization procedure does not require the foreign supplier to establish a branch
    or register a company inMacedonia..

8. For suppliers that meet the criteria for the abridged procedure, the Ministry o f
    Health's PharmaceuticalsBureau has committed to meeting a 60-day deadline for
    making a decision on marketingauthorization, providedthat it receives complete
    documentation from the applicant

9. The pre-qualification process will be open to any international firm, thereby
   notifying all potential suppliers. The pre-qualification notice should explain that a
    longer timeframe would be required for those suppliers that do not filly meet the
    criteria for the abridged procedures for obtaining marketing authorization. The
   pre-qualification notice should encourage any such suppliers to beginthe process
    for obtaining marketingauthorization in sufficient time to meet the timetable for
    the procurement process. Inpractice, supplierswho do not meet the criteria for the
    abridged procedure are unlikely to be able to obtain marketingauthorization in a
    short enough time for the first round o f international tendering. However, the pre-
    qualification documents could indicate that while such applicants would not be
    invitedto bid inthe first round of tendering, ifthey pre-qualify they may be able
    to obtain marketing authorization in time for fiture rounds o f tendering, and are
    encouragedto do so.

10. In the bidding process, only pre-qualified firms will be invited to bid. The
    international pharmaceuticals procurement expert will assist the HIF to prepare
   bidding documents for the tender, and provide advice on the process for
    evaluation o f bids. The expert will advise on whether or not the list of drugs
    included inthe tender should be grouped into lots for the purposes o f evaluation
    and award o f contract. Firms should provide evidence to the HIF when they
    submit their bids that they (or their authorized representatives) have already
    submittedapplications for marketingauthorization to the Pharmaceuticals Bureau
   with all o f the requireddocumentation. For example, the firms could be askedto
   provide a signed statement from the Pharmaceuticals Bureau confirming that the
   Bureauhas receivedtheir application with all required supporting documentation.

11.After the evaluation ofbids andaward ofcontract(s), the winningbidder(s)should
   be given an adequate period to obtain marketing authorization if they have not
   done so already (60 days from the date o f submission of a complete application
   for marketing authorization to the Pharmaceuticals Bureau), and to meet other
   requirements for importation and distribution within Macedonia, including the
    appointment o f an importer and distributor o f drugs inthe Republic of Macedonia
   which is registered to perform that activity in accordance with the law. Meeting



                                        57

       these requirements should be a condition o f contract signature. If the highest-
       ranked bidder fails to meet these conditions of contract, the second-ranked bidder
       will be offered the contract and will be required to meet the same requirements.
       The Purchaser should ensure, through appropriate provisions in the bidding
       documents, that all bidsremainvalid until effective contracts havebeen signed.

Based on the above understanding, international tendering can proceed under the current
law.




(Macedonian Draft) Signed by:



Minister o fFinance o f the
 Republic o f Macedonia



Minister o fHealth o fthe
 Republic o fMacedonia



Director
Health Insurance Fund



October 27,2003




                                           58

   ANNEX4B: ACTION PLANFORIMPLEMENTATIONOFWAGE DECOMPRESSION

-
No.
-     Implementing authority  Activity                                                             leadline
 1    Ministryo fFinance- Gather additional information oncivil servantsinthe pay and              See steps la, lb
      ITandBudget             employment database, inorder to be able to accurately identify       ind IC
      Departments             basepay and differentiate it from the various other contingent
                              elements o fremuneration(e.g., maternity pay, overtime, risk
                              supplements, etc.).
 l a  Ministryo fFinance IT Define datarecordrequirements neededfor software revisions in 16.01.2004
                          -
            Department        order to more accurately project wage impacts o f implementing
-                             the CS salary scale,) &e., develop new F-2 Form).
 lb   MinistryofFinance   -   Distributethe F-2 Formto the budget usersfor themto provide          19.01.2004
      Budget Department       the needed data by January 30,2004, at the latest (pursuant to
                              the decision adopted by the Government).
 I C  Ministryo fFinance -    Re-estimate CS salary scale simulations withrevised data (on         10.01.2004
      Budget Department       wage increase for past years o f service, basic wage, job
                              positions, education, wage for specific job positions) inorder to
                              identify a point value that will yield an overall fiscal impact
                              consistent with agreementswiththe Bank.
2     MinistryofFinance -     Finalize projections o f salaries and wage bill impacts for          29.02.2004
      Budget Department       implementation o f a revised CS salary structure, as well as for
                              extending comparable salary increases to approximately 1,000
                              elected and appointedofficials
3     Civil Servants Agency   Check whether the decisions for acquiring the status o f Civil
                              servant (i.e., titles) andthe assignment decisions are harmonized    15.02.2004
                              with the systematization acts and the Law on Civil Servants.
4     MinistryofFinance   -   Determine the impact o fthe civil servants wage decompression
      Budget Department and   on the pensionindexation.                                            05.03.2004
      Macroeconomic
-     Department
5     Civil ServantsAgency    Prepare amendments to the Law on Civil Servants. CS Law
                              amendments would: (i)     revise the structure o fpoints by Titles;  01.03.2004
                              (ii) certainpositionsfromcoveragebytheCSLaw(in
                                   eliminate
                              particular, air traffic controllers); (iii) transition
                                                                       include
                              provisions to allow the phased implementation o fthe revised CS
                              salary structure over 24 months; as well as (iv) address several
                              other issuesnot directly linkedto the salary implementation;

-                             e.g., revisions to the performance evaluationprocess.
6     MinistryofFinance   -   Findthe neededfunds for wage decompression withinthe 2004
      Budget Department       Budget o f the Republic o f Macedonia ;i.e.,                         15.03.2004
                              MoF and first line Budget Users (BUS)agree BU-specific
                              budget cuts (reallocations to their wage billbudgets) requiredto
                              ensure that each BU's total budget remains unchanged once the
                              CS salary scale (and, ifnecessary, increases inappointedand
                              elected officials' salaries) is implemented.

~
7     CS Agency               Forwardproposedamendments to CS Law acceptable to the
                              Bank to Government                                                   02.03.2004

9     MinistryofFinance- Revise software for wage calculation for allbudgetusers.                  10.03.2004
      Budget Department and
      all other budget users




                                                  59

No. Implementing authority Activitv                                                         Deadline
10  Government             Forward CS Law amendments acceptable to the Bank to              11.03.2004
                           Parliament.
11  Parliament             Enact CS Law amendmentsconsistent withthe Government's           31.03.2004
-                          agreementswith the Bank
12  Ministryo fFinance- Issueinstructions to BudgetUsers advisingthemto prepare and         08.04.2004
    BudgetDepartment       issue: (i)internal Bookso fRules on Salaries consistent withthe
                           revised CS Law; and (ii) individual salary change decisions for
                           each staffmember whose salary is affected by implementation o f
-                          the CS salary scale
13  Budget Users           Prepare and issue: (i)internal Books o f RulesonSalaries         Monthly, from
                           consistent withthe revised CS Law; and(ii)  individual salary    30.04.2004
                           change decisions for each staffmember whose salary is affected   through
                           byimplementationo fthe CS salary scale, thereby authorizing      31.03.2006
                           the revisedsalary structure withintheir BUas well as each CS's
-                          revised salary.
14  MinistryofFinance- BeginpayingCS salariesconsistent withrevisedCS Law,
    Treasury Department    effective as o f01April 2004. Monthlyincreases fromApril 1       Beginning
                           through December 1, 2004, to be no less than 1/24" o f the total 31.05.2004
                           projected increase incivil service wages requiredfor 111
-                          implementationo fwage decompression plan*.
15  Parliament             Enact supplementary budget sufficient to finance 2005 wage bill  Prior to
                           decompressedcivil service wages through December 31,2004.        December 31,
                                                                                            2004 as required
16  Parliament             Enact 2005 budget sufficient to finance decompressed civil       Date o f
                           service wages through December 31,2005.                          Parliamentary
                                                                                            approval o f 2005
                                                                                            budget
17  Parliament             Enact 2006 budget sufficient to finance decompressed civil       Date o f
                           service wages through December 31,2006.                          Parliamentary
                                                                                            approval o f 2006
                                                                                            budget
-
18  MinistryofFinance      Complete implementation o f wage decompression                   April 2006




                                             60

         ANNEX 4C: BUDGET         PROCESSREFORM MONITORING                INDICATORS



 Objective         Rationale                    Indicator                     .-3
                                                                              z           E
                                                                              0
                                                                              .-0b    :G 2 z?
                                                                                       a m

                                                                              a       AfE G
Budget
Formulation
Accurate         While revenue predictions    %deviationof actual            Quarte   July     MoF
revenue          willnever be error-free,     fromprojectedrevenues          rlY      2004
predictions      consistent, large margins
                 o f error, particularly if                                  Annual   March
                 revenue estimates are                                                2004
                 biased upwards,
                 undermine fiscal
                 discipline.
Modest policy    While policy priorities      Average % change (in           Annual   March    MoF
volatility       will change fromyear to      absolute value terms) in                2004
                 year, frequent, large shifis functional budgets from
                 undermine the credibility    average of three previous
                 ofthe Government's           years' budget
                 commitment, as well as
                 incentives and capacity o f
                 line agencies to
                 implement policies.
Budget proposal  Unless the Ministryo f       % difference between           Annual   March    MoF
discipline       Finance (MoF) imposes        budget ceilings                         2004
                 discipline onbudget          established inBudget
                 proposal submissions,        Circular (BC) and Budget
                 budget users will not take   User's (BU's) initial
                 the budget process           proposedbudgets. (BU-
                 seriously.                   specific, and average in
                                              absolute value terms
                                              across all BU's)
                                              %differencebetween
                                              budget ceilings
                                              established inB C and
                                              BU'sJinal proposed
                                              budgets. (BU-specific,
                                              and average inabsolute
                                              value terms across all
                                              BU's)
Budget proposal  Realistic budgetproposals    % difference between           Annual   March    MoF
realism          (i.e., proposals likely to   initial budgetproposals                 2004
                 be approvedby                andbudgets approvedby
                 Parliament) indicate that    Parliament (BU-specific,
                 the budget formulation       and average inabsolute
                 exercise is taken seriously  value terms across all


l8Denotestheentityresponsibleforgeneratingorotherwise acquiringthedataandforprovisionofthe
performance measure, not necessarily the accountable entity for the performance being measured.



                                                   61

  Objective




                     (byBU's, the MoF and          BU's)
                     Government)
Fiscal               Total wage bill(both          Budgetedcentral budget        Annual      March         MoF
sustainability of    budget and actual) should     wage bill as a percentage                 2004
public sector        be fiscally sustainable       o f GDP.
wage bill                                          Actual central budget
                                                   wage bill as a percentage
                                                   o fGDP.
                                                                                                                     ~~
Budget
Execution
Expenditure          Large deviations o factual    Average deviation of          Annual      March         MoF
predictability       from budgeted resources       budget units' actual                      2004
                     suggest cashrationing,        expenditures from
                     which means that: (a)         budgeted.I9
                     policy priorities reflected   %deviation ofactual
                     inthe budget arenot           expenditures from
                     necessarily executed; and     budgeted by: (i)  function;
                     (b) agencies` capacity to     and (ii)budget unit.
                     effectively implement
                     programs is undermined
                     byunpredictable
                     financing.
Expenditure
discipline
Minimalarrears       Lower arrears indicate        Total arrears outstanding     Annual      March         MoF
                     expenditure discipline.       at year's end.                            2004
                                                   Total arrears outstanding
                                                   at year's end as a
                                                   percentage o f total annual
                                                   expenditures.
Financial
accountability
Minimal audit                                                                    Annual      March         MoF
delay                results improves their        the end o fthe fiscal year                2004          Internal
                     usefulness.                   andthe publication o f the                              Audit
                                                   external audit o fthat                                  Sector
                                                   year's budget execution.
Auditfzndings        Implementationof S A 0       Number and % of                Annual      October       MoF
lead to              recommendations on            systemic S A 0                            2004          Internal
management           systemic improvements        recommendations cleared                                  Audit



l 9 The current chart o f accounts does not permit tracking o factual expenditures by h c t i o n a l classification;
but the Ministry o f Finance i s interested inadding that capacity inthe not too distant future. When that
capacity i s developed, the Ministrywould also be amenable to monitoring expenditure predictability by
functional classification; Le., tracking average deviation o f actualfunctional expenditures frombudgeted.
The PSMAL2 preappraisal mission recommends that establishment o f such a revised chart of accounts, as
well as monitoringo fdeviations o f actual functional expenditures frombudget be considered for inclusion
inany follow-onoperation to the PSMAL2.



                                                       62

 Objective        Rationale                     Indicator                                 z=
                                                                           .C
                                                                           L.
                                                                            0              m -
                                                                                           g .2
                                                                           .C

                                                                           ak              d o
improvements     improves financial           from S A 0 list of                          Sector
                 management, control and      outstanding issues.
                 accountability               Change inthe number o f
                                              systemic S A 0
                                              recommendations from
                                              one year to the next.
Minimal          Downward trends in           Numberofinternal audit       Annual March   MoF
instances of     instances o f serious        observations leading to             2005    Internal
serious          internal control violations  disciplinary actions.                       Audit
violations of    over a long period o f time  Numberofexternal audit       Annual         Sector
internal control indicate improving           observations leading to             March   MoF
                 accountability o f financial disciplinary actions.               2005    Internal
                 managementpractices.                                                     Audit
                                                                                          Sector
Transparent
and competitive
procurement
practices
Transparent      Transparent procurement      Numbero fexternal audit      Annual Decemb  MoF
procurement      improve cost-                findings o f material               er 2005 Internal
                 effectiveness o f            violations o fprocurement                   Audit
                 investments expenditures.    rules                                       Sector
                                              Number o f internal audit    Annual March
                                              findings o fmaterial                2006    MoF
                                              violations o fprocurement                   Internal
                                              rules                                       Audit
                                              (to be decided -but some     (to be         Sector
                                              measure o f the public       decide June
                                              availability o freliable and d)     2005    MoF
                                              timely information on                       procure
                                              procurement plans and                       ment
                                              actions)                                    entity
Competitive      Competitive procurement      (to be decided -but some     (to be June    MoF
procurement      improves cost-               measure o f the incidence    decide 2005    procure
                 effectiveness o f            ofthe use o f competitive    dl             ment
                 investments.                 procurement procedures,                     entity
                                              bynumberoftenders as
                                              well as by value of
                                              tenders)




                                                  63

ANNEX 4D: FIRST
              REVIEW IMFSTANDBY ARRANGEMENT
                   OF




                      64

would protectthe qwnalityof services, limit the mpefor com~ption,and ensurcthat
dccentralimionwas nut awoi~iplniedbya lassoffi~cddiscipline.

        Directors urgedthe authorities io Liddms rtructuralhpcdimentstu gpwth.` 1 % ~
welcomedthe skpsthat hart hentaken to increasethe flexibility of the labor markethiit
emphasi~dtheneedioreduce unempIaymentandpoverty. They alsa notal with concernthat
the tumaround inprtductionand exports adter the security atisis-relatedslump hd beenslow
and wasstill concentratedina smalliimber ofsectors:andthat foreign d i m investnwnnt,
alreadylow, haddeclinedfuJtherin2003.

        Directorsalsoexxpresscd conwmthat the reformmaisms intho healthsectorhad
beensubject ta delay, includingthc auditoftht M&th Xnsluoricc Fund(Illx'), a benchmark
underthoprogram.They welcomed h e authorities' c"nitmcflt to cast-cuttingmeasures
that should andthc necdfor a specialbudgetarytransferto the HIF,startingin 2004. To
achievethis objecrivq they urgedpressingaheadwith World Bmk-wpprtedreforms aimed
at cuttingcosts and strengtheninggovernance, highlightingthc importanceofdcvelrtping
comptitivc wid trampwentprocurementpmccdurcsand addressingthe significant
overstaffing inthis sector, They ackrmwldged the rewnchmentsunder the ptesentprogram
as a ilsefiil first step aid endorsedthe authorities' comiilitmcntto reorganizethe sectorin
order to lock inthe alimhtionofpositionsand to rtdaploypersonnel inodcr toensure khat
the qualityof hcalthcare is maintained or improved.

        Dimtors wetcomcsd that, accordingto the FinancialSystem Stability Assessment,the
wundnrssof the Madonian barkingsystem hadhprovc-dinrecentyearsand tha?a core
groupofh k swith. relativelyprudentand soundpracticeshad emerged.They highlighted
that the entranceof %reignstMlfegic investors, in canibinaticmwithcnbncemcatsin
rcguliitionand supervisim, hadfostard this pmcm~,but caurirmcdthat vufnerabifitics
remoin,relatedto poorg o w n " ins m a k b m k . They thus cncoumgcdthe authorities to
tacklecormpion and money laundering, andto strengthenlawsthat would Iimit the scope for
the,% mtivities and the enformment of laws in the broaderecowmy,

        Ilirectors appreciated the progressmade inlayingthe grorinndworkfox financial sector
supervision, cspecialfy bankingsupcrviriion. Illyobservcdthat additional vulnembilities
stmmcdfrnm the highdegreeofeuroi73tjonof banks' baImw sheetsand wc~cm~wd               steps
beingtaken: infine withthe pmgmm,to suprvisc banks' ti& iwcssmcnt practices inthis
arm.lhcy rwommcndd thatfurther stepbe trtken to movetowardsrisk-ba.& asscsments
inbanks,and puttinginplacea supemiscwycapacity for the jmwdnce marketandthe plmned
pensionfundmarket.




        Sinceall prfr,rmance criteriahavebeenmet and inview of the policiesdcscrihcdin
the authorities' supplementaryMEFP,Dircctorsconiplctedthe fitst micw 01the prop"




                                                   65

BoardConditions                                 SecondTranche Conditions

                            BudgetFormulationandExecution
MOFBudget Directorate to adopt
sustainableaggregate spendingceilings for
2004 budget andimpose fixed ceilings on all
first line budget entities.
BudgetCeilings to b,ereflected inthe final
2004 budget submitted to Parliament.
Alltransactionsbybudgetary entities to be       MOFincooperationwith HIFto transfer
conducted through single treasury account.      HIFaccountsto MOFsingletreasury
                                                account.
Government to submit legislation imposing
commitment controls onhighvalue
contracts.

Procurement regulations to require ex ante
MOF approval before contracts are legally
valid.
                                            Au it
Systematization Act creating MOF intemal        MOFinternalaudit unitto be fully staffed.
audit unit andstaffingto be approvedby
MOF.
Systematization Act creating intemal audit      Systematization act creating internal audit
unitinHIFapprovedbyHIFBoard.                    unitsinat leasttwo other first linebudget
                                                users approved byrespective ministry.
Government to submit to Parliament              SA0to publishaudit results andperiodic
revisionto S A 0 enabling act: (a) permitting   reports on cases reportedto anticorruption
SA0to focus onhighrisk budgetentities           commission, systemic weaknesses in
andEBFs; and(b) requiringSA0to publish          financialmanagement, andthe
audit results andperiodicreports on             Government's progressintakingcorrective
weaknesses infinancial management, and          actions.
the Government's progress intaking
corrective actions.




                                           66

Board Conditions                                Second Tranche Conditions

                                         Procr ement
Parliament to enact anew Law on Public
Procurement whichi s satisfactory to the
Bank andinline with international
standardsandbest practice.
                                                Government to adopt comprehensive
                                                implementingregulations underthe Law on
                                                Public Procurement, acceptableto the Bank
                                                andinline with international standards and
                                                bestpractice.
                                                Government to promulgate and require use
                                                o f standardprocurement documents and
                                                standardforms of contract, acceptableto the
                                                Bank.
                                                MOF to beginandcontinue publishing on
                                                the MOF website the Register ofPerformed
                                                Public Procurement and findings ofPublic
                                                ProcurementComulaints Committee.
                                                A state administrativebodyfor public
                                                procurement,without a statusof a
                                                separatelegal entity, hasbeenestablished
                                                within the Ministryof Financeandis
                                                fully operationalwith staff, resources,
                                                andterms of referencesatisfactoryto the
                                                Bank.
                                               ervice
                                                Government to submit to Parliament an
mechanism for enforcing civil service           amendmentto Organic BudgetLaw
hiring requirementsin2004 Annual Budget         establishing payroll-based enforcement
                                                mechanism.
Government to repeal"hold-harmless"
provision from civil service law, so as to
reducenet costs o f salarv decomuression.
Parliament to approve CS Law amendments
consistent with the scale andtiming o f CS
wage decompressionas agreedwith the
Bank.
Satisfactory implementation o fthe Wage         Borrowerhas achievedsatisfactory
DecompressionAction Plan.                       progressinthe implementationof the
                                                wage decompressiontime-bound action
                                                planagreedwith the Bank.




                                           67

 Board Conditions                                           SecondTranche Conditions

                                                          :ialProtection
                                                           HIFfinancialcontrolsystemsaudithas
                                                           beencompletedand acceptedbythe
                                                           Borrower's Governmentandan action
                                                           planbasedon audit recommendationshas
                                                           beenapprovedbythe Government.
 PharmaceuticalBureau to revise rule book                  Pursuantto the Memorandumof
 on abridged procedure for issue o f                       Understandingthe Borrowerhasadopted
 pharmaceutical marketingauthorizations in                 new practicesfor procurementof
 order to eliminate inappropriate                          pharmaceuticals,except pharmaceuticals
 requirements for localtestingand expert                   fromthe list agreedwith the Bankand
 opinions for drugs alreadytested, evaluated               new supplycontractssufficientto meet
 andlicensedinreferencecountries.                          the requirementsof the HIFand
                                                            healthcareinstitutionsfor
                                                            pharmaceuticalsfor at leasta year have
                                                            beenconcludedby HIF.
                                                            TheHIFto adopt a satisfacto$'         bylaw
                                                            outlining terms and condition ofHIF
                                                            contracting with privatepharmacies, with
                                                            the agreement o fthe MOH, andpublishthe
                                                           bylaw inthe Official Gazette.
 HIFto adopt satisfactory bylawsonhospital                  HIFto havecollected contract monitoring
 contracts and sign contractswith at least 17               data from contractedhospitals covering first
 His.                                                       six months o f 2004, analyzed the data, and
                                                            providedfeedback to hospitals where
                                                            performance deviates materiallg' from
                                                            contract.


 Amendmentsofthe Pension andDisability                      Regulations governing newreporting
 InsuranceLaw, Law on Recordsfrom the                       requirementenacted andthe reportingforms
 Labor Area andtheLaw on Personal                           for individualpension contributionreporting
 Records of the Insuredapproved by                          developed.
 Parliament andrelevant by-laws enactedto
 enable the introductionofthe new system
 o fmandatory monthlyreporting on pension
 contributions paidfor eachemployee
 individually.


2o Satisfactory is defined as the following: (i)
                                              contracting with any willing dispenser; (ii)
                                                                                        definitiono f
adequatereimbursement mechanisms to ensure cost-containment and access.
21 For 2004, "materially" is proposedto mean: greater than +I-5% for financial performance indicators and
greater than +I- 10%for volume and other non-financial performance indicators.



                                                    68

1482 I W




       P I


     IW
     11%

      145

     1.1%
       tu
       lY7
        lf4




     i9%?

     1269
     1138.
        25
        72
        20
        M
        79
        OB


        5 1
        en


      19%         f




            69


