Page  1
 
 
 
Initial Project Information Document (PID) 
Report No: 27487 
 
Last Submitted to InfoShop on:  
Project Name 
FYR MACEDONIA-PSMAL 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
Sector 
Central government administration (70%);  Health (20%); Other social services 
(10%) 
Theme 
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);  Administrative 
and civil service reform (S);  Health system performance (P); Other social 
protection and risk management (S) 
Project 
P074893 
  
Borrower(s) 
FYREPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
Implementing Agency(ies) 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Address: Dame Gruev 14, Skopje,  
Contact Person: Goran Ancevski 
Tel: +389 2 132 245          Fax: +389 2 106 140            Email:  
Environment Category 
U (Not Rated) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 17, 2003 
Auth Appr/Negs Date 
January 8, 2004 
Bank Approval Date 
May 13,  2004 
 
 
1. Country and Sector Background 
At the time of independence in 1991, FYR Macedonia was the poorest republic of the former Republic of 
Yugoslavia. Macroeconomic  instability in the early years saw output decline by 20%. This was countered 
by a successful stabilization program begun in 1994.  Growth resumed in 1996 and reached 4.3 percent by 
1999. The  recovery was interrupted, however, by the Kosovo refugee crisis in 1999, and then again in 2001 
when fighting broke out between Macedonian government forces and ethnic Albanian rebels. While the 
civil conflict was resolved through an internationally mediated peace settlement,  its economic costs were 
high. GDP contracted by 4.5 %, investment activity dropped markedly, and fiscal and external deficits 
widened as security expenditures surged and exports plummeted. In 2002, growth remained slower than 
expected, as higher private consumption was offset by declining exports. A new administration took office 
in late 2002 and has put together an economic management package that is the basis for a Standby 
Agreement with the IMF, signed in April 2003. Over the medium term, a recently signed Stabilization and 
Association Agreement with the EU is expected to stimulate trade and increase FDI in the country’s 
economy.   
 
The level of poverty in FYR Macedonia is moderate. Eight percent of the population falls below the 
absolute poverty line of US$ 2.15. But poverty is persistent. Modest but volatile growth since 1996 has 
been countered by rising income inequality, leaving poverty rates unchanged. Poverty is particularly 
widespread in rural areas. Unemployment is also high. About one-third of the workforce is officially 
registered as unemployed, although other evidence suggests that few adults are completely idle. Many have 
turned to subsistence agriculture and petty trade. Although recent changes in legislation have increased 
labor market flexibility, job creation has not been sufficient to absorb significant numbers into the formal 
labor force.  
 
Page  2
 
 
Although FYR Macedonia does not have a formal national development strategy, the policy agenda of the 
Government was clearly articulated in its political platform leading into the 2002 elections.  The four pillars 
of the platform, tackling corruption, poverty reduction, political and social stability, and job creation enjoy 
broad support throughout FYR Macedonia. 
Tackling corruption
.  
Although official corruption has been a 
feature of Macedonian administrations since the days of the SFRY, the problem appears to have ballooned 
in the period between the signing of the 2001 peace agreement  and the 2002 elections. Political patronage 
and interference in the operation of the private sector also appear as serious impediments to the 
development of an efficient market system and serve as deterrents to investment. Tackling corruption was a 
key plank in the electoral platform of the Government, and the authorities have demonstrated a commitment 
to this priority by moving quickly to initiate proceedings against a number of officials suspected of 
corruption
.
 
Political and social stability
.
  
The governing coalition has stressed the need to move ahead 
rapidly with implementation of the 2001 peace agreement as a means to maintain political and social 
stability, without which FYR Macedonia will suffer further economic stagnation. 
Poverty reduction
.  
Robust economic growth will also be necessary for sustained poverty reduction, but attention will have to 
be paid to the quality of growth and the targeting of social assistance.
 
Creating jobs
.
 Structural reforms 
aimed at aligning Macedonian legislation and institutions with those of the EU - guided by the SAA - and 
an improved domestic investment climate will be essential in this regard.
 
 
2. Objectives 
The project will provide direct support to the Government on the first two of these objectives. With respect 
to corruption, it will support organizational and procedural reforms in auditing and procurement and 
increased transparency throughout government operations. To address poverty, it will support reforms in the 
provision of health care and social assistance, increasing the efficiency of health care services and ensuring 
that subsidies are effectively targeted on the poor. Indirectly, the project will also support the Government’s 
fourth objective. By supporting reforms in budget formulation and execution, it will enable the Government 
to sustain the fiscal policies necessary to macroeconomic stability, economic growth, and job creation. 
 
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement 
As envisaged in the Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board of Directors of the Bank on August 
14, 2003, the PSMAL is the second of two public sector management adjustment loans. The first, PSMAC, 
was approved by the Board of Directors on April 9, 2002. Remaining areas of public sector reform would 
be addressed under two subsequent adjustment operations (PSAL1 and 2) programmed for FY05 and FY06.  
FYR Macedonia continues to rely on official creditors' support to meet its eternal financing requirements. 
The US$ 30 million in Bank financing will provide fiscal and balance of payment support needed to 
implement a broad reform program. PSMAL related policy dialogue (and associated technical assistance 
financed through trust funds) will provide critical technical support for the reforms and help sustain political 
commitment to reform. 
 
4. Description 
The PSMAL consists of five major components:  The first,  
budget formulation
, will increase the usefulness 
of the budget as a strategic policy instrument and ensure that the Government is capable formulating a  
budget within macroeconomic constraints. The second, 
budget execution
, will strengthen the Treasury’s 
control over spending commitments and extrabudgetary funds. The third, 
audit
; will establish internal audit 
units in the Ministry of Finance and other key Government agencies, and will strengthen the State Audit 
Office’s ability to focus on high risk entities. The fourth component,  
procurement
, will support the 
enactment of a new procurement law and the creation of a specialized procurement unit in the Ministry of 
Finance. The final component, 
civil service
, will create a mechanism for to enforce civil service hiring 
requirements and will introduce a uniform, decompressed salary structure for civil servants. In addition to 
these cross cutting management reforms, the operation will support specific reforms in the health sector 
(including reforms to the internal control system of the Health Insurance Fund and in the procurement of 
pharmaceuticals) and in social protection.   
Page  3
 
 
 
5.  Financing 
Source (Total ( US$m))
 
BORROWER ($0.00) 
IBRD ($30) 
Total Project Cost
: $30 mn. 
 
6.  Implementation 
The PSMAL’s counterpart team will be led by the Minister of Finance, who will be in charge of overseeing 
implementation on a continuous basis. While a project implementation unit has been established in the 
Ministry of Finance, its role is (and will continue to be) limited to overseeing the administration of donor 
trust funds. Responsibility for implementing reforms in specific agencies and ministries will rest with their 
respective permanent staff.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The proposed PSMAL entails political and implementation risks. Although at present the threat of renewed 
political turmoil and ethnic violence is modest, the difficult economic reform agenda that lies ahead could 
translate into waning political commitment on the part of the Government. This risk has been mitigated in 
part through the timing of the operation. Preparation was undertaken entirely under the new administration, 
ensuring a degree of Government commitment to its components. In addition, many elements of the reform 
call for changes in legislation, which will be difficult to reverse once they are enacted. The PSMAL also 
confronts implementation risks. FYR Macedonia is a small country and has a correspondingly small cadre 
of technically qualified staff at the highest levels of Government. This risk will be mitigated through the 
ample use of donor-financed technical assistance, much of which is already under contract. Assistance for 
reforms in health care and social protection will also be provided through projects in both those sectors, 
currently under preparation.    
 
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector 
 
Experience with the PSMAC suggests that challenging reform targets can be an important stimulus to 
action, but that follow-up/monitoring mechanisms are needed to ensure that reforms are implemented, and 
that dialogue and technical assistance is provided to support downstream reforms. It also suggests that 
coordination among donors is crucial to avoid gaps and overlaps, and ensure that contributions are focused 
on achieving objectives.  
 
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation) 
        
 
Issues
    : 
 
None. 
 
10. List of factual technical documents: 
FYR Macedonia Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
, World Bank 2002 
FYR Macedonia - Decentralization Status Report
, World Bank 2003 
FYR Macedonia - Country Economic Memorandum: Tackling Unemployment
, World Bank, 2003 
 
 
Page  4
 
 
11. Contact Point: 
 
        
 Task Manager 
         
William Dillinger
 
         
The World Bank 
         
1818 H Street, NW 
 
 Washington D.C. 20433 
         
Telephone
:  
202-473-3940 
         
Fax: 
 
202-522-2753 
 
12
.  For information on other project related documents contact: 
 The 
InfoShop 
    
 The 
World 
Bank 
    
 1818 
H 
Street, 
NW 
    
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
 
Fax:       (202) 522-1500 
 Web: 
http:// 
www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily 
included in the final project. 
 
 
 
