                    Document of
                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: 34473-MK

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (SCL-47340 TF-54252)

                       ON A

               LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                      TO THE

FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                      FOR A

Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan 2 (PSMAL 2)




                  November 21, 2005

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Denar
                                  1 Denar = US$ 0.02
                                   US$ 1 = 50.3 Denar

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 CFAA  - Country Financial Accountability Assessment

 CPAR  - Country Procurement Assessment Report

CSA    - Civil Service Agency
EBF    - Extrabudgetary Funds
EU     - European Union
HIF    - Health Insurance Fund
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
IMF    - International Monetary Fund
LCS    - Law on Civil Servants
LPP    - Law on Public Procurement
MLSP   - Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
MOU    - Memorandum of Understanding on Pharmaceutical Procurement
NBRM   - National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia
PPB    - Public Procurement Bureau
PDF    - Pension and Disability Fund
PEIR   - Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
PIFCS  - EU Public Internal Financial Control System
PSMAC  - Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit
QAG    - Quality Assurance Group
SAO    - State Audit Office



                          Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                         Sector Manager       Cheryl Gray
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         William Dillinger

                  MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
                 Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan 2 (PSMAL 2)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             17
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                18
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            19

Project ID: P074893                                                  Project Name: Public Sector Management Adjustment
                                                                     Loan 2 (PSMAL 2)
Team Leader: William R. Dillinger                                    TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan 2               L/C/TF Number: SCL-47340; TF-54252
                            (PSMAL 2)
   Country/Department: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                            MACEDONIA                                                                Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (70%); Health (30%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Health system
                            performance (S); Improving labor markets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/01/2002                                     Effective:                           07/16/2004
     Appraisal: 10/30/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/12/2002                                      Closing: 11/01/2005                 06/14/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF MACEDONIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                                                                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Cheryl W. Gray                                 Helga Muller
Team Leader at ICR:             William R. Dillinger
ICR Primary Author:             William R. Dillinger


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The PSMAL adjustment loan was one of a series of adjustment operations aimed at improving public
sector management in the FYR Macedonia. It was based on a public expenditure and institutional review
(PEIR) prepared during 2000 and a more recent Country Financial Accountability Assessment and Country
Procurement Assessment Review. The loan pursued five major areas of reform: (a) budget formulation, to
increase the usefulness of the budget as a policy instrument and ensure that the Government is capable of
formulating a budget within macroeconomic constraints; (b) budget execution, to strengthen the Treasury's
control over spending commitments and extrabudgetary funds; (c) audit to establish an internal audit
department in the Ministry of Finance and units in other key Government agencies, and strengthen the State
Audit Office's ability to focus on high risk entities; (d) procurement to support the enactment of a new
procurement law and the creation of a specialized procurement bureau in the Ministry of Finance; and (e)
civil service, to create a mechanism to enforce civil service hiring requirements and introduce a uniform,
decompressed salary structure for civil servants. In addition to these cross cutting management reforms, the
operation supported specific reforms in the health sector, including improvements in the internal control
system of the Health Insurance Fund and in the procurement of pharmaceuticals. Through linked
donor-support, the operation supported technical assistance and policy studies aimed at improving the
administration and targeting of health insurance subsidies, pension contributions, social assistance, and
child allowances.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The PSMAL had six principal components:

·        Budget Formulation: FYR Macedonia's budget process has traditionally been based on
unrealistic revenue projections and an ad hoc and highly opaque process of negotiation among major
budget users. Project-supported reforms in budget formulation were intended to ensure that budgets are
prepared on the basis of realistic macroeconomic parameters and that fixed spending ceilings are imposed
on individual budget users early in the budget process.
·        Budget Execution: This component strengthened Treasury controls over expenditure
commitments and consolidated major extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) under a single account in the Treasury.
·        Audit: This component was intended to strengthen the internal audit unit in the Ministry of Finance
and establish new internal audit units in agencies that posed major fiduciary risks. It also addressed
weaknesses in the external audit agency, the State Audit Office (SAO). It supported legislation permitting
the SAO to focus its attention on high risk government agencies and required the SAO to monitor the
Government's responses to its audit recommendations and to widely disseminate its findings.
·        Procurement: To reduce political interference in contract awards and increase competition,
transparency, and value-for-money, the project supported the enactment of a new law on public
procurement and the establishment of a separate public procurement bureau in the Ministry of Finance to
monitor the law's implementation. It also required data on all recent government procurements, as well as
the findings of the Public Procurement Complaints Committee, to be published monthly.
·        Civil Service Reform: At the time the project was prepared, many managerial and administrative
positions in the Government were filled by under-qualified and unmotivated staff. Although an adequate
civil service law had been enacted, it was not enforced. The project required the Government to introduce a
payroll-based mechanism to ensure that civil service regulations are enforced and to decompress salaries
within the civil service on the basis of an acceptable formula and timetable.



                                                     - 2 -

·        Reforms in Social Sector Expenditure Management: This component supported specific
reforms aimed at reducing the costs and increasing the effectiveness of spending in the social sectors.
Problems in financial mismanagement were particularly widespread in the health sector. To begin to
address this problem, the project supported an internal systems control audit of the Health Insurance Fund
and the preparation of an action plan to implement the audit's findings. To address particular problems in
the procurement of pharmaceuticals, the project required the Government to adopt a new international
tendering procedure and to procure a one-year supply of pharmaceuticals using the new procedure. To
strengthen incentives for the efficient operations of public hospitals, PSMAL supported revisions in the
legislation governing the financial relationship between the HIF and individual hospitals, as well as the
introduction of performance contracts for at least 17 such facilities. To improve collection performance and
financial management in the Pension and Disability Fund, it supported reforms in the PDF's accounting,
budgeting and internal control procedures to comply with international standards and revisions in
legislation to remove impediments to the tracking and enforcement of individual contributions.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was reviewed by the QAG, which rated the project's quality-at-entry as satisfactory. The QAG
panel noted the project's `clear and well developed links to the country situation and CAS' and found that
(the project's) preparation `showed good judgment by the country and sector teams in taking advantage of a
window of opportunity'. It concurred with the `project's focus on budget formulation, budget execution,
audit, procurement (especially pharmaceutical procurement), civil service reform, and reforms in social
expenditure management', noting that `a strong task team was able to design a highly pragmatic operation
focusing on areas where FYR Macedonia has obvious shortcomings: over/misspending, corruption, lack of
transparency, and poor procurement practices'. It endorsed the project's `selective conditionality' and its
`strong technical work in the areas of budget management, audit, and procurement.' The panel took issue
with the project's treatment of poverty, however. Although the panel noted that the project has the
`potential to benefit poor and vulnerable groups'        and is `consistent with the recommendations of the
Bank/Fund Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (November 15, 2000)' it noted that, `it is good
practice to provide some assessment of the likely poverty and distributional impacts of the operation.' It
also noted that     the political economy risks and potential adverse social impact of the financing
arrangements `could have been more clearly spelt out'. Overall, the panel found `that the quality of design
and implementation of the operation was good in most of the important dimensions that matter for its
impact and that the task team made an appropriate effort to prepare the operation.'

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the PSMAL is rated satisfactory. The project included 16
conditions for Board presentation and fifteen conditions for second tranche disbursement. All 31 of these
conditions were satisfied prior to the project's scheduled closing date.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                      - 3 -

Budget Formulation. The Bank's 2002 Public Expenditure and Institutional Review noted several
fundamental problems in budget formulation in FYR Macedonia, including the absence of an overall fiscal
policy framework and the absence of spending ceilings for individual line ministries fixed early in the
budget process. The prior public sector management operation, PSMAC, required the Government to
address these deficiencies. At the time the PSMAC was appraised, these reforms were not expected to be
reflected yet in the budget process. (The PSMAC merely required an `IDA-acceptable' budget for 2002.)
Although it was envisioned that they would be incorporated in the 2003 budget, the civil conflict in 2001
and its economic fallout made this difficult. The 2003 budget was therefore prepared in much the same way
as its predecessors.

The PSMAL required the Government to fully implement these reforms for the 2004 budget cycle. The
Government did so. A fiscal strategy for the 2004-2006 period was approved by the Government in June
2003. Hard budget ceilings for each of the first line budget entities were approved by the Government in
June and provided to the entities as part of their budget instructions. Approximately two-thirds of the
resulting budget user's submissions fell within their respective ceilings. Of the one-third that did not,
approximately 70 percent were subsequently reduced to fit within them. (At the completion of this process,
the revised budget proposals totaled slightly less than the amount specified in the original budget circular.)
This result was, in turn, reflected in the 2004 budget approved by Parliament. The Government repeated
this process in the preparation of the 2005 budget. As shown in the monitoring indicators listed in Annex
Table A3, budget realism and budget discipline has continued to improve. This component is rated
satisfactory.

Budget Execution. The Government has also made significant improvements in budget execution. As a
condition of Board presentation, PSMAL required the government to consolidate all budgetary transactions
in a single treasury account maintained at the National Bank of Macedonia (NBRM). Sixteen district
treasury offices now receive transaction details from their designated budget entities, code these
transactions, and send them to a centralized data base at the NBRM. Treasury then validates the requests
against the monthly budget plans submitted by the entity, checks that there are sufficient funds in the
account to cover the payment, and then authorizes the NBRM to pay. PSMAL also required the Treasury
to implement a commitment control system for high value contracts. The system can accommodate in-year
and multi-year commitments and is supported by an approval process that requires the approval of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) Budget Department prior to processing. Legislation has been enacted
stipulating that contracts with public sector entities are legally invalid unless the MOF registers them. (To
avoid overloading the MOF, only commitments in excess of 2600 are subject to approval.)

The Government has also improved the management and financial oversight of extra budgetary funds. As a
condition of second tranche disbursement, the Ministry of Finance was required to transfer the accounts of
the Health Insurance Fund into the treasury single account. This was completed on November 1, 2004.
The pension and disability fund and the road fund have also been transferred to the single treasury account.
In the short run, this will reduce the extra-budgetary funds (EBF's) exposure to weak private banks. In the
longer term, it will permit the Government to use EBF deposits for liquidity management. This component
is rated satisfactory.

Audit At the time of the CFAA, internal audit functions had only been established in the Ministry of
Finance and in the Public Revenue Office. Management in line ministries lacked the information needed to
control expenditures and reduce the incidence of fraud and corruption. To strengthen the legal framework
for internal auditing, Parliament enacted a new Law on Internal Audit in September 2004. (The law is
consistent with EU Public Internal Financial Control Systems (PIFCS) requirements.) As a condition of
Board presentation, the Government established an internal audit oversight unit in the MOF. It is now fully


                                                       - 4 -

operational. PSMAL conditions also required the Government to establish internal audit units in the HIF
and at least two other first line budget users. Eleven such units have now been established. Another four
first-line budget users have full time internal auditors. Of the budget users with expenditures in excess of
MKD 500 million, only two--the road fund and the transport ministry--still lacked internal auditors at the
time of project closing.

PSMAL also supported reforms in the Government's external audit agency, the State Audit Office (SAO).
At the time the PSMAL was under preparation, the SAO's enabling legislation required it to audit 1,752
separate entities; 240 of them annually. As a result, the SAO's efforts were spread too thin. In addition,
the SAO's findings were not disseminated widely, nor were Government responses to the SAO's findings
tracked systematically. In compliance with a condition of Board presentation, the Government submitted a
bill to Parliament addressing these shortcomings. It authorizes the SAO to focus on high risk budget entities
and permits it to publish its results within 14 days of tabling them in Parliament. The law specifically
requires the SAO to monitor the government's responses to its audits and to make this information
available to the public. The bill was enacted by Parliament on March 26, 2004. SAO is now implementing
its    provisions.   The    audit   report    for   2004    is   posted    on    the     SAO's     website   (
http://www.dzr.gov.mk/DesktopDefault.aspx?tabindex=0&tabid=158). The 2004 audit reports on the
Government's progress in addressing problems identified in the 2003 audit. This component is rated highly
satisfactory.

Procurement       At the time of project preparation, FYR Macedonia's public procurement regime was
characterized by deep and systemic weaknesses in all its key components ­ its legislative framework, its
procedures (particularly for disclosure), and its enforcement arrangements. Political interference in the
award of public contracts was common. This practice was, in fact, enshrined in the Law on Public
Procurement (LPP) which recognized the right of the Minister to ultimately approve all awards of public
contracts. There was also a pervasive absence of transparency in the procurement procedures. Instead of
providing bidders with formal, written bidding documents, public entities often only advertised invitations
to bid in a local newspaper. These frequently failed to disclose bid evaluation criteria to bidders in advance.
Subjective methods were used to evaluate bids and an "accelerated procedure" provision in the Law on
Public Procurement (LPP) gave an unfair advantage to favored bidders. Information on other aspects of the
procurement process, such as bidding opportunities and contract awards, was also kept out of public view.
The text of the LPP was out of print and difficult for the public to obtain. Public entities rarely submitted
statements of their procurement transactions to the MOF. Weaknesses in the legislative framework and
procurement practices were exacerbated by problems in enforcement. FYR Macedonia lacked an
authoritative body to oversee enforcement of the law and provide guidance to the organizations bound by it.
While the MOF was formally charged with authority over public procurement, it had no staff dedicated to
this function.

In compliance with PSMAL Board conditions, Parliament enacted a new Law on Public Procurement
(LPP) on March 26, 2004. The law successfully addressed the major flaws in the existing legislation. (It is
also compatible with, although stricter than, EU requirements.) Disbursement of the second tranche
required the MOF: (a) to adopt satisfactory implementing regulation and bidding documents for the LPP
and (b) to begin publishing the Register of Performed Public Procurement on its website. Implementing
regulations for the Law on Public Procurement, reflecting extensive Bank comments, were subsequently
adopted by Government. Standard bidding documents for works and equipment have been issued. The
Public Procurement Bureau (PPB) has established a procedure for obtaining information on public
procurement from line ministries and has begun posting this information on its website                       (
http://javni-nabavki.finance.gov.mk/dadabik/index.php).




                                                     - 5 -

To ensure the enforcement of the law, Board conditions required the MOF to establish the PPB within the
Ministry of Finance. Second tranche conditions required the PPB to be fully operational with staff,
resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. These conditions have been met. This
component is rated satisfactory.

Civil Service Reforms.      Underlying many of the deficiencies in public sector management in FYR
Macedonia has been a shortage of skilled, motivated staff in senior management positions. The PEIR
recommended the development of a professional civil service, noting that the rules (or absence of rules)
governing employment and salaries hampered the Government's ability to hire and motivate qualified staff
for senior positions. In compliance with the Board conditions of the prior (PSMAC) operation, Parliament
enacted a new Law on Civil Servants. Key provisions of the law and its subsidiary legislation included: (a)
a uniform, rule-based and less compressed salary structure for all civil servants; (b) uniform definitions of
the types of positions encompassed by the civil service; (c) competitive and transparent recruitment
procedures, and (d) establishment of an independent agency, the Agency for Civil Servants (CSA) to
enforce these provisions. At the time the PSMAL was under preparation, this legislation had not been fully
implemented. Sectoral ministries routinely bypassed civil service recruitment procedures, hiring staff for
civil service positions without competitive exams or review by the CSA. Wage decompression had not been
carried out. Instead, Parliament had enacted a `hold harmless' provision, protecting existing civil servants
from any salary reductions that might accompany salary decompression in the future.

To address the former problem, Parliament amended the organic budget law to include a civil service
recruitment enforcement mechanism. Under the mechanism, no new employee can be registered on the
Government payroll system unless: (a) the CSA has reviewed the budget user's Acts of Systematization (to
ensure that the position is authorized); and (b) the budget user has complied with civil service recruitment
procedures if the position is covered by the Law on Civil Servants (LCS). (Implementation of this
procedure was a first-tranche condition of the PSMAL. Enactment of legislation making it permanent was a
condition of the second tranche.)

To address the latter, PSMAL conditionality required the Parliament to repeal the hold harmless provision.
It also required the Government to agree to a schedule for wage decompression, to be implemented in equal
monthly installments over a two-year period. After extensive consultations between the Bank, the IMF, and
the Government, Parliament enacted the wage decompression legislation in March 2004. Decompression
began in April 2004 and remained on schedule thereafter. (Satisfactory progress in implementing the wage
decompression plan was a core condition of second tranche disbursement.) This component is rated highly
satisfactory.

Reforms in Social Sector Expenditure Management In addition to cross-cutting improvements in
management, PSMAL conditions required the Government to undertake specific actions aimed at reducing
the costs and increasing the effectiveness of spending in the health sector.

Pharmaceutical procurement was a particular target for reform. At the time the project was prepared, the
HIF's drug procurement process had been plagued by scandal for several years. Prices obtained by HIF
procurement practices were several times higher than prices obtained in international tenders by
humanitarian procurement agencies. To address the problem, PSMAL conditionality required the
Government to adopt and implement a new procurement procedure based on international competitive
bidding. The tender would cover one-year's supply of           generic drugs and would be carried out in
accordance with a detailed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) prepared by the PSMAL team and
adopted by the HIF, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. Loan conditionality specified that
the second tranche would not be disbursed until contracts with winning bidders had been signed.


                                                     - 6 -

The HIF issued Bank-approved bidding documents in November, 2004. On March 1, 2005, HIF's Public
Procurement Commission completed the bid evaluation process and informed all bidders of the results. The
Bank reviewed the Commission's report and found it satisfactory. Contracts were signed with the winning
bidders prior to disbursement of the second tranche.

The tender achieved a savings of 17% ( 8.57 million) compared to the previous effort. The number of
items receiving multiple bids was considerably smaller than expected, however. It is believed that this
reflects the relatively unattractive payment terms offered by the HIF as well as HIF's             generally
unfavorable reputation among international pharmaceutical suppliers. As virtually all the savings achieved
through the tender were attributable to the multiple bids, the benefits of ICB were nevertheless clearly
demonstrated. The PSMAL team has advised the HIF on ways it could increase the number of multiple
bids on future tenders.

One of the preconditions for a successful tender was the elimination of unnecessary barriers to entry. These
included an extremely complicated process for granting marketing authorizations. In compliance with first
tranche conditions, the HIF's Pharmaceutical Bureau streamlined this process before the tender documents
were issued. PSMAL conditions also required the HIF to draft new regulations governing the distribution
of pharmaceuticals to individual pharmacies. At the time the project was under preparation, HIF drugs
were distributed through state-owned pharmacies. The Government, however, intended to privatize the
pharmacies. This raised two risks. First, excessively generous compensation agreements with the privatized
pharmacies could cancel out the savings the HIF would achieve through the use of international competitive
bidding. Second, agreements which permitted local monopolies on the distribution of positive list drugs
would create opportunities for corruption in the award of contracts. In compliance with second tranche
conditionality, the HIF adopted Bank-approved guidelines ensuring open access and cost containment in the
distribution of pharmaceuticals to private pharmacies.

Hospital contracting. The PSMAL also supported reforms in the financial relationship between the HIF
and individual health care institutions (HCIs). The HCIs have been traditionally financed on the basis of
line-item budget allocations. This limited management flexibility and provided no incentive for cost
savings. Under the PSMAC's Letter of Development Policy, the HIF was to begin to contract HCIs on the
basis of prospective annual budgets, with increased flexibility for managers to reallocate funding between
expenditure categories and clear performance indicators for each institution. No such contracts were signed
prior to PSMAC disbursement, however. The PSMAL required the signing of 17 such contracts as a
condition of Board presentation. This condition was satisfied. The Bank nevertheless was concerned with
the complexity of the contracts' data requirements. Second tranche conditions therefore required the HIF to
monitor and analyze the HCIs' performance under the first round of contracts, with an eye to revising the
contracts, if necessary, once they came up for renewal. The HIF's analysis showed that the contracts were,
in fact, too complicated to implement. Under the PSMAL's successor operation (the Programmatic
Development Policy Loan, PDPL) an alternative strategy will be tested. As recommended by the
PSMAL-supported system audit of the HIF (see below) Ministry of Finance controls over the major HCIs
will be tightened. Hard budget ceilings will be imposed while efforts are made to implement a system of
performance monitoring of HCIs by the HIF.

HIF Systems Audit and Action Plan.Problems in pharmaceutical procurement and HCI management were
symptomatic of broader problems in the management of the HIF. The SAO audits of 2000, 2001 and 2003
identified a litany of shortcomings, including poor accounting and recording of transactions, payments that
did not match invoices received, and improper write-offs of accounts receivable and payable. Trust funds
associated with the project financed a systems audit of the HIF, intended to identify deficiencies in the


                                                    - 7 -

design or operation of internal controls that could adversely affect the Fund's ability to initiate, record,
process, summarize and report accurate financial and operational data. Disbursement of the second tranche
of the PSMAL was conditional upon the Government's acceptance of the systems audit and its adoption of
an action plan based on the audit's recommendations. After extensive discussions with the Bank, the
Government did accept the audit and the action plan. The latter provides a time-bound schedule for: (a)
establishing an appropriate policy base for the reforms to the Macedonian health care system; (b) imposing
fixed budget ceilings on health care institutions (HCIs); (c) improving controls over HCI budget execution,
reporting, reforecasting and the treatment of arrears; (d) establishing a preliminary set of financial and
service performance indicators for all HCIs; and (e) strengthening internal and external audit. Elements of
the action plan are included as disbursement conditions under the PDPL.

Pension Reforms. FYR Macedonia's national pension system is actuarially unsound, due in part to its
generous benefit structure. To increase the viability of the system, the Government intends to introduce a
second, defined-contribution-based, pension system. This would be mandatory for new hires and voluntary
for existing workers. Several issues must be resolved before the second pillar can be implemented,
including the arrangements for financing the transition to the new system and the selection and development
of domestic financial instruments suitable for pension investments. The Government will introduce the
second pillar only after these issues are resolved. In the mean time, the PSMAL supported Government
efforts to introduce a new system for collecting and tracking pension contributions. The new system, based
on monthly reports collected on an individual basis, is intended to improve the administration of the first
pillar and provide information required for the creation of individual pension accounts under the proposed
second pillar. As a condition of Board presentation, PSMAL required Parliament to make the necessary
amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Law and related legislation. As a condition of second
tranche disbursement, PDF was required to develop regulations governing the new reporting requirements
and issue the required reporting forms. Both conditions were met.

Overall, this component was rated satisfactory

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project' impact on institutional development is rated substantial. As noted earlier, the project prompted
substantial reforms in Government budget formulation and execution, internal and external audit,
procurement, and civil service management,          along with sector-specific reforms in pharmaceutical
procurement and pension administration. The majority of these reforms have been institutionalized through
legislation, including new or amended laws on internal audit, external audit, public procurement, civil
service, and pension administration. New regulations governing implementation of the new procurement
law and the privatization of pharmacies have been put in place. These have been reinforced though the
creation of new administrative units in key areas. The latter include an internal audit oversight unit in the
MOF, new internal audit units in eleven line agencies and a separate PPB in the Ministry of Finance.
PSMAL conditions requiring the adoption of new procedures--particularly in budget formulation and
pharmaceutical procurement--are also expected to have long term impacts on institutional performance.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:



                                                     - 8 -

The external environment was generally favorable to the project's reform agenda. The ethnic conflict that
hampered the previous adjustment operation (PSMAC) did not recur. A new administration with a mandate
to `clean house' took office at the outset of project preparation and remained in power throughout project
implementation. The prospect of EU accession was a further goad to reform. (Legislative and regulatory
changes sought under the project were designed to dovetail with EU requirements.)

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government support contributed to the project's success. The Ministry of Finance, in particular, provided
both advocacy within the Government and substantial technical contributions to the major project
components. Support from the Health Insurance Fund was less whole-hearted. Extensive supervision by
the Bank was necessary to keep reforms in that sector on track.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PSMAL reforms were implemented by Government departments and agencies, rather than by separate
a separate implementing unit. (Factors subject to the control of those entities are discussed in section 7.6.)
A separate PIU was established in the Ministry of Finance to administer the Dutch Trust Fund.
Discontinuity of staff in the PIU did delay the recruitment and contracting of consultants, but was not
decisive in determining the success or failure of individual reforms.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable. (Project was structured as an adjustment loan.)

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as highly likely. As noted above, most of the major reforms have been
codified in legislation. Others--such as the decompression of salaries--would require concerted
Government action to reverse. Commitment to EU               accession--both by the Government and the
opposition--is likely to sustain support for improvements in public sector management, even if domestic
support for individual measures occasionally declines. Conditions imposed under the follow-on
programmatic development policy loan will reinforce some of the more controversial reforms (including
reforms in the HIF), as will reform conditions imposed under the IMF's recently approved (September
2005) three-year standby arrangement.

None of the components is dependent upon one-time source of financing (whose absence might otherwise
constitute a sustainability risk). All implementing agencies are permanent Government entities, and are
therefore not subject to extinction once the project closes.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted above, none of the reforms are dependent upon extraordinary financing or temporary
governmental organizations. (The two-person PIU was supported by a Dutch trust fund, but was not
critical to the sustainability of reforms once they were enacted.) Therefore the issue of transition to regular
operations did not arise. Several of the reforms supported under the PSMAL will be followed up under the
recently-negotiated Programmatic Development Policy Loan (PDPL). Inter alia, this requires the
completion of wage decompression and the implementation of the several of the HIF Action Plan's
recommendations. Other health sector reforms will be pursued under a Health Sector Management Project.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank



                                                     - 9 -

7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in identifying, preparing and appraising was satisfactory. The project was based
on a thorough Public Expenditure and Institutional Review and a more recent Country Financial
Accountability Assessment and Country Procurement Assessment Review. The number of conditions was
kept to a minimum in order the focus the Government's attention on key reforms. Tranching was
back-loaded (with two-thirds of the loan disbursing under the second tranche) in order to reinforce the
Government's      commitment to the more controversial reforms and to encourage follow-through on
first-tranche conditions. This strategy proved successful.

Project conditionality was closely coordinated with the IMF's reform agenda, as specified in the its extant
Standby Arrangement (2003-2004). This required some compromise in the timing of reforms. The schedule
for civil service wage decompression, for example, was lengthened in order to permit the Government to
meet the IMF's deficit targets. The majority of such coordination issues were successfully handled at the
technical level.

The resident mission in Skopje provided valuable support to the project, both before and after Board
presentation. Much of the detailed follow-up on pending loan conditions was performed by staff of the
resident mission. In between missions from Washington, policy dialogue was maintained by the country
manager.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision, in the interval between disbursement of the first and second tranches, was effective but
expensive. Three issues required particular attention. The first was the drafting of implementing regulations
for the new procurement law. This required line-by-line advice from the team's procurement specialist. The
second was the pharmaceutical procurement process. This required extensive Bank input into the drafting
of the MOU and bidding documents and close supervision of the selection process. The third was the
drafting of the HIF action plan. This task was initially contracted out to consultants. Bank and Government
dissatisfaction with the consultant's work led to a substantial redrafting, carried out in successive iterations
by the HIF and the PSMAL team. All three activities were ultimately successful, but caused substantial
overruns in the project's supervision budget.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Government's contribution to preparation was satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance provided
a strong counterpart team to assist in the identification and preparation of the major reforms in budget
formulation and execution, audit, procurement and civil service. Support from the HIF was somewhat
uneven, however. This is partly explained by management discontinuity (the director of the HIF was
replaced during project preparation), the HIF's lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding,
and the strength of opposition by local pharmaceutical distributors, who anticipated that pharmaceutical
procurement reform would expose them to increasing competition.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall, the Government's contribution to preparation was satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance provided
a strong counterpart team to assist in the identification and preparation of the major reforms in budget
formulation and execution, audit, procurement and civil service. Support from the HIF was somewhat
uneven, however. This is partly explained by management discontinuity (the director of the HIF was
replaced during project preparation), the HIF's lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding,
and the strength of opposition by local pharmaceutical distributors, who anticipated that pharmaceutical



                                                    - 10 -

procurement reform would expose them to increasing competition.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's overall support for project implementation was highly satisfactory. The Council of
Ministers provided key backing for controversial legislation (including the new procurement law and
legislation requiring public disclosure of the SAO's findings). As noted earlier, the HIF, MOH, and MOF
adopted a Memorandum of Understanding governing the new procedures for the procurement of
pharmaceuticals. The Minister of Finance provided a valuable service as the project's liaison with other
senior government officials, and provided key support to reforms within his domain.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation of PSMAL reforms involved several different Government entities, including the
Ministry of Finance's treasury and budget departments, the State Audit Office, the Civil Service Agency,
the Health Insurance Fund, and to a smaller degree, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy. Performance by the majority of these entities (including the MOF, the SAO, the Civil
Service Agency, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare) was highly satisfactory. Performance of the
Ministry of Health and the HIF was less so.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Building on prior sector work: The PSMAL clearly benefited from prior sector work on public sector
management issues, including the PEIR, CFAA and CPAR. Much of the project conditionality reflects the
recommendations of these reports.

A pipeline of reforms: PSMAL also benefited from the previous adjustment operation, PSMAC, which,
inter alia, established the legislative framework for the civil service reforms supported by the project. By
the same token, several of the PSMAL reforms will be followed-up under the new operations. The
recently-negotiated PDPL requires the completion of wage decompression and the implementation of the
several of the HIF Action Plan's recommendations. Other health sector reforms will be pursued under the
Health Sector Management Project. As such, these operations will help ensure that reforms introduced
under the PSMAL will be sustained and extended. Reform

Limited number and specificity of conditions       The relatively small number of conditions imposed under
the PSMAL was a boon to implementation, as it permitted the Government to focus on a limited number of
issues. The specificity of the reforms was also helpful, as it provided clear targets for reform efforts.

High level political support was critical to project success. Support from the Ministry of Finance was
instrumental in offsetting internal and external opposition to reforms, particularly in pharmaceutical
procurement.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:




                                                     - 11 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 12 -

- 13 -

- 14 -

- 15 -

- 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
            Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate




Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
            Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project
Table A1 and A2 list the project's loan conditions. Compliance with these conditions is an immediate
indicator of the project's performance. Project impacts were monitored using a variety of indicators.
Selected indicators are shown in Table A3.

                              Table A1 Cross Sectoral Management Reform Conditions
 Budget Formulation
 MOF Budget Directorate to adopt sustainable aggregate spending ceilings for 2004 budget and impose fixed
 ceilings on all first line budget entities.
 Budget ceilings to be reflected in the final 2004 budget submitted to Parliament.
 Budget Execution
 All transactions by budgetary entities to be conducted through single treasury account.
 Government to submit legislation imposing commitment controls on high value contracts.
 Procurement regulations to require ex ante MOF approval before contracts are legally valid.
 MOF in cooperation with HIF to transfer HIF accounts to MOF single treasury account
 Internal Audit
 Systematization Act creating MOF internal audit unit and staffing to be approved by MOF.
 Systematization Act creating internal audit unit in HIF approved by HIF Board.
 MOF internal audit unit to be fully staffed.
 Systematization act creating internal audit units in at least two other first line budget users approved by
 respective ministry.
 External Audit
 Government to submit to Parliament revision to SAO enabling act: (a) permitting SAO to focus on high risk
 budget entities and EBFs; and (b) requiring SAO to publish audit results and periodic reports on weaknesses in
 financial management, and the Government's progress in taking corrective actions
 SAO to publish audit results and periodic reports on cases reported to anticorruption commission, systemic
 weaknesses in financial management, and the Government's progress in taking corrective actions.
 Procurement
 Parliament to enact a new Law on Public Procurement which is satisfactory to the Bank and in line with
 international standards and best practice.
 Government to adopt comprehensive implementing regulations under the Law on Public Procurement,
 acceptable to the Bank and in line with international standards and best practice.
 Government to promulgate and require use of standard procurement documents and standard forms of contract,
 acceptable to the Bank.



                                                         - 17 -

MOF to begin and continue publishing on the MOF website the Register of Performed Public Procurement and
findings of Public Procurement Complaints Committee.
A state administrative body for public procurement, without a status of a separate legal entity, has been
established within the Ministry of Finance and is fully operational with staff, resources, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
Civil service
Government to authorize a payroll-based mechanism for enforcing civil service hiring requirements in 2004
Annual Budget Law.
Government to submit to Parliament an amendment to Organic Budget Law establishing payroll-based
enforcement mechanism
Government to repeal "hold-harmless" provision from civil service law, so as to reduce net costs of salary
decompression.
Parliament to approve CS Law amendments consistent with the scale and timing of CS wage decompression as
agreed with the Bank.
Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of the wage decompression time-bound
action plan agreed with the Bank.



                                   Table A2 Social Sector Reform Conditions
Pharmaceutical procurement
.Pharmaceutical Bureau to revise rule book on abridged procedure for issue of pharmaceutical marketing
authorizations in order to eliminate inappropriate requirements for local testing and expert opinions for drugs
already tested, evaluated and licensed in reference countries
Pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding the Borrower has adopted new practices for procurement of
pharmaceuticals, except pharmaceuticals from the list agreed with the Bank and new supply contracts
sufficient to meet the requirements of the HIF and healthcare institutions for pharmaceuticals for at least a year
have been concluded by HIF.
The HIF to adopt a satisfactory bylaw outlining terms and condition of HIF contracting with private
pharmacies, with the agreement of the MOH, and publish the bylaw in the Official Gazette.
Hospital Contracting
HIF to adopt satisfactory bylaws on hospital contracts and sign contracts with at least 17 HCIs.
HIF to have collected contract monitoring data from contracted hospitals covering first six months of 2004,
analyzed the data, and provided feedback to hospitals where performance deviates materially from contract.
HIF Audit and Action PlanHIF financial control systems audit has been completed and accepted by the
Borrower's Government and an action plan based on audit recommendations has been approved by the
Government.
Social Protection
Amendments of the Pension and Disability Insurance Law, Law on Records from the Labor Area and the Law
on Personal Records of the Insured approved by Parliament and relevant by-laws enacted to enable the
introduction of the new system of mandatory monthly reporting on pension contributions paid for each
employee individually.
Regulations governing new reporting requirement enacted and the reporting forms for individual pension
contribution reporting developed.




                                                      - 18 -

                                                      Table A3 Selected Monitoring Indicators
              Objective                                           Indicator                             Responsi    2003
                                                                                                        ble Entity
     Budget    Revenue prediction     % deviation of actual from projected revenues                     MoF
Formulation    accuracy                                                                                 Treasury

               Budget proposal        % difference between budget ceilings established in Budget        MoF
               discipline             Circular (BC) and Budget User's (BU's) initial proposed budgets.  Budget
                                      (BU-specific, and average in absolute value terms across all
                                      BU's)
                                      % difference between budget ceilings established in BC and
                                      BU's final proposed budgets. (BU-specific, and average in
                                      absolute value terms across all BU's)
                                      % difference between final budget proposals and budgets           MoF
                                      approved by Parliament (BU-specific, and average in absolute      Budget
                                      value terms across all BU's)
               Fiscal  sustainability Budgeted central budget wage bill as a percentage of GDP.         MoF
               of     public sector                                                                     Budget,
               wage bill                                                                                Treasury
  Budget       Budget execution       % deviation of actual expenditures from budgeted by (i) function,             4.49%
Execution      discipline             and (ii) budget unit.
                                      Total arrears outstanding at year's end as a percentage of total
                                      annual expenditures
               Financial              % of systemic SAO recommendations implemented
               accountability
                                      Number of internal audit observations leading to disciplinary     MoF
                                      actions. % of systemic SAO recommendations implemented            Internal
                                                                                                        Audit
                                                                                                        Sector
                                      Number of external audit observations for which disciplinary      SAO
                                      actions were reported to SAO
Civil Service  Wage compression       Ratio of average Secretary General total remuneration to
Reforms                               average Junior Officer total remuneration                         CSA
               Wage                   Average CS total remuneration as a % of average service sector    CSA
               competitiveness        wages




                                                 - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Annex 2a

  Project Component        Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                             US$ million              US$ million
BOP/Budget Support               30.0                   30.0                   100%
Total Costs/Financing            30.0                   30.0                   100%
Required




Annex 2b Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (US$ million)

      Procurement Method                 ICB              NCB                 Other
                                     US$ million       US$ million         US$ million
BOP/Budget Support                                                            30.0
Total Costs/Financed by IDA                                                   30.0




                                                - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count            Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               January 2003                3    TTL, civil service health
                                           3    TTF, civil service health
               March 2003                  4    TTL, procurement, auditing,
               May 2003                         health
                                           6    TTL, civil service, procurement,
               October 2003                     auditing, health, social protection

                                           7    TTL, civil service, procurement,
               January 2004                     auditig, health (2), social
                                                protection

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               February 2004               7    TTL, civil service
                                                procurement, auditing,
                                                health (2), social protection
               March 2004                  1    TTL

 Supervision
               September, 2004              7   TTL, civil service,                     S               S
                                                procurement, auditing,
                                                health (2), social protection
               February, 2005               3   TTL, procurement health                 S               S

               April, 2005                  1   TTL                                     S               S

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 91.8                             543.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation         included in above                 included in above
  Supervision                                52.7                             152.4
  ICR
  Total




                                                - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

ROC Meeting Minutes
Loan Agreement
Program Document
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
Back to Office Reports of:
        January, 2003
        March, 2003
        May, 2003
        October, 2003
        January, 2004
        February, 2004
        March , 2004
        September, 2004
        February, 2005
        April, 2005
Letter to Minister Popovski re: second tranche conditions (August, 2004)
Second tranche release memorandum (June, 2005)



Annex 8: Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable

Annex 9: Stakeholder Workshop Results

Not applicable




                                              - 25 -

- 26 -

