                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: 55274




      CLUSTERED PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT




                             FYR OF MACEDONIA

          PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                       (CREDIT NO. 3628 MK)

          PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN 2
                        (LOAN NO. 4734 MK)




                              SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                          (LOAN NO. 7178 SK)


                                  June 29,2010




Country Evaluation and Regional Relations (IEGCR)
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit == Macedonian denar            Slovakian crown

2002                 US$l.OO                $64.3     45.3
2003                 US$1.00                $54.3     36.8
2004                 US$l.OO                $49.4     32.3
2005                 US$l.OO                $49.3     31.0
2006                 US$l.OO                $48.8     29.7
2007                 US$l.OO                $44.7     24.7

Source: IMF

Fiscal Year
Government:          FYR of Macedonia and Slovak calendar year


Abbreviations and Acronyms
FYR of Macedonia:

ACS                 Agency for Civil Servants
NBM                 National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CFO                 Chief financial officer
CM                  Cabinet of Ministers
CPECS               Central Payroll and Employment Control System
CRCS                Central Registry of Civil Servants
DFID                Department for International Development (UK)
EU                  European Union
FA                  Framework Agreement
FESAL               Financial and Enterprise Sector
HIF                 Health Insurance Fund
lAS                 International Accounting Standards
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IFAC                International Federation of Agency Accountants
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
INTOSAI             International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
I-PRSP              Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MIGA                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIS                 Management Information System
MLSP                Ministry of Labor and Social Policies
MoH                 Ministry of Health
MoJ                 Ministry of Justice
OECD                Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PDF                     Pension and Disability Insurance Fund
PEIR                    Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
PERTAP                  Pension Reform Technical Assistance Program
PETS-                   Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PHC                     Primary health care
PIT                     Personal income tax
PRO                     Public Revenue Office
SAO                     State Audit Office
SIDA                    Swedish International Development Association
SRTAP                   Social Reform Technical Assistance Project
SSAC                    Social Section Adjustment Credit
SSP                     Social Support Project
TSA                     Treasury Single Account
USAID                   United States Agency for International Development
VAT                     Value-added tax



Slovak Republic

CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
DLMA                     Debt and Liquidity Management Agency
DPR                      Development Policy Review
EU                       European Union
FIAS                     Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FPI                      Financial Policy Institute
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
IFC                      International Finance Corporation
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
NBS                      National Bank of Slovakia
OECD                     Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PAD                      Project Appraisal Document
PDO                      Project Development Objective
PFMR                     Public Finance Management Reform
PHARE                    Poland and Hungary Assistance for Restructuring the
                         Economies (EU Program)
PPF                      Project Preparation Facility
M&E                      Monitoring and Evaluation
MTBF                     Medium-Term Budget Framework




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                  Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)       Ms. Cheryl W. Gray
Senior Manager, IEGCR                                     Mr. Ali M. Khadr
Task Manager                                              Ismail Arslan
                                                                    v



Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................. vii

Key Staff Responsible .....................................................................................................viii

Preface ...................................................................................................... xiii

Summary .................................................................................................................... xv

1. Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the Slovak Republic:
    Comparative Project Performance Assessment ...................................................... 1

             Country Context .............                                                                                            1
                                                   0 ..... 0 ............................... 0 ................................................




             Sector Context ....................................................................................................... 1
                                                                                                                                 ....
             Proj ect Context ..................................................................................................  2
             Lessons Derived from the Three Projects ............................................................. 6

2. FYR of Macedonia Public Sector Management Operations: Country,
    Sector, and Project Context and World Bank Support.......................................... 8

      Introduction ................................................................................................................ 8

      Economic and Political Developments 1991-2006 ................................................... 8

      Public Sector Management Credit (PSMAC) ........................................................ 11

            Project Context .................................................................................................... 11
            Ratings ................................................................................................................... 15

      Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL) ..................................... 23

            Implementation ................................................................................................... 26
            World Bank Support and Government Priorities ................................................. 27
            Ratings ................................................................................................................. 28

3. Slovak Republic: Public Finance Management Project: Country, Sector, and
      Project Context ......................................................................................................... 34

            Country Context ..............                                                                                            34
                                                    o ...................................................................................


            Sector Context ..................................................................................................... 35
            Project Context .................................................................................................... 37
            Ratings ................................................................................................................. 39

Appendix 1: Boxes on FYR of Macedonia: PSMAL and PSMAC Key Issues and
      Tranche Conditions ...................................................................................................49

Appendix 2: Economic Indicators .................................................................................. 54
                                                                   vi


Appendix 3: Basic Data Sbeet......................................................................................... 56

Appendix 4: World Bank Staff Interviewed on FYR of Macedonia and Slovak
       Operations ................................................................................................................. 62

Appendix 5: FYR of Macedonia Officials Interviewed on Public Sector
   Management Adjustment Credit and Public Sector Management Adjustment
       Loan ........................................................................................................................... 63

Appendix 6: Slovak Officials Interviewed on tbe Public Finance Management
       Project ....................................................................................................................... 64

Appendix 7: Country Policy and Institutional Assessment: FYR of Macedonia
       and tbe Slovak Republic ...........................................................................................65

References ......................................................................................................................... 68


Tables
Table 2.1.      Key Performance Indicators for Component 1 ................................................ .41
Table 2.2.      Key Performance Indicators for Component 2 ................................................. 42
Table 2.3.      Key Performance Indicators for Component 3 ................................................. 43
Table 2.4.      Key Performance Indicators of Component 4 ................................................. .45

Figures
Figure 1. CPIA for FYR of Macedonia, 2000-06 .............................................................. 66
Figure 2. CPIA for Slovak Republic, 2000-06 ...................................................................67
                                                             vii


  Principal Ratings
  A. MACEDONIA

  PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT NO. 3628 MK)
                                                           ICR*                ICRReview*                   PPAR
                                                                                Moderately              Moderately
  Outcome                                              Satisfactory
                                                                                Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
  Institutional Development Impact**                   Substantial                Modest
  Risk to Development Outcome/                                                                            Moderate
  Sustainability***                                       Likely                   Likely
                                                                                                         Moderately'
  Bank Performance                                     Satisfactory             Satisfactory
                                                                                                         Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance                                 Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory


  PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN 2 (LOAN NO. 4734 MK)
                                                           ICR*                ICRReview*                   PPAR
                                                                                                         Moderately
  Outcome                                              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
                                                                                                         Satisfactory .
  Institutional Development Impact* *                  Substantial              Substantial
  Risk to Development Outcome/                                                                           Substantial
  Sustainability* **                                 Highly Likely                 Likely
  Bank Performance                                     Satisfactory             Satisfactory             Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance                                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory             Satisfactory



  B. SLOVAL REPUBLIC

 PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 7178 SK)
                                                          ICR*                ICRReview*                    PPAR
 Outcome                                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
 Institutional Development Impact **
 Risk to Development Outcome/                     Low or Negligible              Moderate           Low or Negligible
 Sustainability***
 Bank Performance                                     Satisfactory              Satisfactory             Satisfactory
                                                        Highly
 Borrower Performance                                                           Satisfactory             Satisfactory
                                                      Satisfactory

. '" The Implementation Completion Report (lCR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR .,
  Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verifY the findings of the ICR .
  렁 As of July 1, 2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
  *'" '" As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are different,
  the ratings are not directly comparable.
                                                viii



 Key Staff Responsible

 A. MACEDONIA

 PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT NO. 36280 MK)
                                                  Division Chief!
 Project           Task Manager/Leader                                       Country Director
                                                  Sector Director
 Appraisal            William Dillinger           Helga W. Muller         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
 Completion           William Dillinger           Cheryl W. Gray*         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos




 PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN 2 (LOAN NO. 4734 MK)
 Project           Task Manager/Leader            Sector Manager             Country Director
 Appraisal            William Dillinger           Helga W. Muller           Christian Poortman
 Completion           William Dillinger          Helga W. Muller          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos




 B. SLOVAKIA REPUBLIC

 PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 7178-SK)
 Project           Task Manager/Leader            Sector Manager             Country Director
 Appraisal         Sandra Bloemenkamp            Helga W. Muller             Roger W. Grawe
 Completion           Roland N. Clarke           Ronald E. Myers               Suman Mehra




*Cheryl Gray, the present IEGWB Director, was recused from this evaluation given her involvement
with the Macedonia Public Sector Management Credit in her past work.
                                                           ix




                  lEG Mission: Improving development results through excellence in evaluation

About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the'
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses some 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internallEGWB peer review, panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the Borrower
for review. IEGWB incorporates both Bank and Borrower's comments as appropriate. The Borrower's comments
are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report
has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
     IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives .and relevance of design. Relevance of-objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing) toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory
                                            xiii


Preface
This is a clustered Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on two projects in the
Fonner Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYR of Macedonia) and a project in the        .
Slovak Republic. These are:

       The Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit (Loan No: 3628) of the FYR
        of Macedonia was for $15.0 million on standard International Development
        Association (IDA) terms with a maturity of35 years and a grace period of
        10 years. It was cofinanced with the Dutch government, which provided a grant of
        $3.78 million for technical assistance. Although the credit was approved by the
        World Bank Board in April 2002, it became effective only in May 2003,
        14 months later. This was because there was a deterioration of the
        macroeconomic situation during the 2002 election campaign. The project was
        closed in June 2004.

       The Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (Loan No: 4734 MK) of the
        FYR of Macedonia was an adjustment loan for $30 million with two tranches,
        including a floating back-loaded second tranche. It was a single currency loan a~
        the Bank's standard LIB OR-based interest rate, with a five-year grace period and
        17-year maturity. The World Bank Board approved the loan in May 2004; the
        closing date was in June 2005.

       The Public Finance Management Project (Loan No: 7178 SK) of the Slovak
        Republic was a single tranche technical assistance loan for only $5 million, as
        finance was not a problem for the country. Even less was disbursed, because the
        European Union program known as Poland and Hungary Assistance for               .
        Restructuring the Economies (PHARE) made funds available, with initial support
        provided by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
        World Bank Board approval was in June 2003, and the closing date was in
        January 2007.

This report is called a clustered PP AR because it compares project performance across
countries. All three projects were principally associated with public sector and public
financial management refonn and cover governtnent budgetary policy, processes and
related institutions. The central theme of the report is public sector management and
reform in transition economies.

This PPAR is based on all relevant Bank and International Monetary Fund (1M F)
documents and interviews of Bank and IMF Staff. A mission visited the FYR of
Macedonia in June-July 2009 and the Slovak Republic in August 2009 to discuss the
preparation, design, and performance of the projects with the officials in the two
countries who implemented the projects, representatives of civil society, and the Bank .
country office in FYR of Macedonia as well as Bank staff who worked in the former
Bank office in the Slovak Republic. This evaluation employed a set of common questions
that relate to the preparation, design, and outcomes of these projects in two different
                                            xiv


country settings. The focus is on their institutional impacts, risks to development
outcomes, and World Bank and borrower performances.

Following standard Independent Evaluation Group (lEG) procedures, copies of the draft
PPAR were addressed to the respective country authorities for their review. No
comments were received from the Slovakian authorities. Owing to a misunderstanding,
the package was not sent to the authorities in FYR Macedonia. This is now being
rectified, and any comments received from them will be reflected in the electronic
version of the PPAR that is disclosed in lEG's website (www.worldbank.orglIEG).

This evaluation's approach was to examine each operation separately and then to bring
the analysis together, comparing and contrasting the three operations, following which a
set of lessons from the three projects in the two countries were gleaned. Accordingly, this
PPAR is divided into three chapters. Chapter 1 focuses on the two public sector
management operations in the FYR of Macedonia. Chapter 2 focuses on the public
finance management loan in the Slovak Republic. Chapter 3 provides an assessment of
comparative performance and outcomes of the three projects with a synthesis of
conclusions and lessons. There are seven appendixes supporting the three chapters.

Thanks are due to all those who were interviewed in the course of preparing this report in
the two countries and in the World Bank, and the IMF staff associated with the three
projects. Lists of persons interviewed are provided in an appendix.

This report was prepared by Sarath Rajapatirana (consultant) with Ismail Arslan as task
manager. Corky de Asis and Aimee Niane provided research and administrative support.
                                             xv


Summary

1.      This clustered Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) examines the
comparative performance of three projects in two countries. They are the Public Sector
Management Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) (2002) for $15 million and the Public Sector
Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL) (2004) for $30 million to the former Yugoslav
Republic (FYR) of Macedonia and the Public Finance Management Project (PFMP)
(2003) for $5 million to the Slovak Republic. The report derives lessons for operations in
similar contexts and evaluates overall outcomes, risks to development outcome, and Bank
and borrower performances. At the same time, it must be recognized at the outset that
differences in the nature and coverage of the operations (two development policy           .
operations versus a small technical assistance project), as well as in the country political
and economic backdrop, make the comparison a less-than-fair one in many respects.

Common elements among the three projects at entry

2.     The two countries have some common elements in their political make-up,
yielding a common theme of public resource management. Both countries were in the'
East European bloc and were parts of larger countries, that is, Yugoslavia and
Czechoslovakia. After 1990, they began the process of transitioning to market economies.
The Slovak Republic had less of a distance to travel on the route to become a market
economy than FYR Macedonia, given its more advanced initial economic conditions.

3.      FYR Macedonia had to create a modem public sector, where the role of the
government had to be redefined to accommodate a private sector-led market economy. Its
two public sector management operations were in the vanguard of that effort. They
supported a strong reform agenda to modernize the public sector so that it could make
good decisions within a well-defined macroeconomic and fiscal framework, deliver
public services efficiently, and address issues related to social protection, such as health,
pensions, and unemployment benefits.

4.      In the Sloyak Republic, public finance'reforms (in a broad sense, a subset of
public sector reforms) were necessary for entry into the European Union (EU) and for the
country to join the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM II). Its public finance
management agenda was to strengthen institutional capacity to use public resources mO,re
effectively, efficiently, and transparently. The PFMP was to help the government
improve its budgetary and financial management in particular, the budget process within
an overall medium-term budgetary framework; strengthen macroeconomic analysis; and
establish debt and liquidity management capacity. The Slovak Republic did not require
funds as much as it did technical assistance.

Differences among the three projects and specific outcomes

5.      The differences with respect to coverage, macroeconomic and political contexts,
degree of preparation, design, and supervision between FYR Macedonian operations and
the Slovak Republic project accounted for their different outcomes. The PFMP had better
overall outcome than either PSMAC or PSMAL, although the PSMAL had a better
                                             xvi


outcome than the PSMAC. The ratings with respect to other aspects-risks to
development outcome, Bank and borrower performance-are more nuanced. Public
Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEF A) and Country Policy and Institutional
Assessment (CPIA) indicators for the three years (2000, 2003, and 2006) point, in
general, to better outcomes for the PFMP than for the PSMAC and PSMAL. Thus, four
overall indicators for the two countries show that, with respect to quality of budget and
financial management, efficiency of revenue mobilization, public sector management on
average and overall CPIA indicators were consistently higher for the Slovak Republic
than for FYR Macedonia during the 2000-06 period.

Overall Outcomes

       PSMAC (2002) is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. Although the project
        achieved some progress with respect to the reform of the budget process and
        institutions and arguably initiated steps that overtime improved budget
        comprehensiveness and transparency, it failed to achieve important objectives
        within the period of the credit. Even within the central thrust of the reform
        agenda, the budget reforms did not lead to a significant change in the budgetary
        process. It failed to put ceilings on expenditures that thwarted strategic
        preparation and implementation processes. Many issues were carried forward into
        thePSMAL.
       PSMAL (2004) is rated as moderately satisfactory. PSMAL had a better focus
        and better-defined objectives than the PSMAC. PSMAL addressed central budget-
        related issues, including procurement and audit. This operation more directly
        addressed social protection with its positive impact on health insurance and social
        assistance.
       The PFMP (2003) is rated as satisfactory. It served the purpose for which it was
        designed and was implemented well. The loan amount that was proposed was .
        small because finance was not a problem. It was a well-designed, implemented,
        and disbursed loan. It was different from the other two loans in that it addressed
        public finance-related issues with a narrow focus, especially given the country's
        more advanced stage of development and of market orientation; it was not only
        better focused on the issues than the two FYR Macedonian adjustment operations
        but was also results-based.

Lessons derived from the three projects

It is challenging to derive lessons from project experiences in countries at different stages
of development. Even so, the first three lessons below are of general applicability. The
next three lessons, to some extent, also reflect the degree of development and progress
towards a market-oriented economy.

       Although differences dominated similarities in the three projects, the one common
        factor that had a determining influence on outcomes was the extent of government
        commitment to the projects.
       Sound analytical work was necessary but not sufficient for project success. All
        three projects were based on sound analytical work and they matched government
        strategy. In the case of the PFMP there was a hand-in-glove match between
                                         xvii


    analytical work and government strategy, as the government adopted the full
    recommendations of the Development Policy Review.
   Concentrating on core elements was a factor contributing to success. Compared
    with the PFMP, the other two projects overreached in their ambitions to achieve
    rather wide development policy goals. In the main, introducing elements that were
    outside the purview of the budget, such as health and pension reform, affected the
    efficacy of these two operations and prevented them from fully realizing their
    goals.
   Better-crafted and results-based projects help monitor progress and allow
    corrective action to be taken, contributing to project success. PFMP was better
    crafted than PSMAC and PSMAL. Its results-based framework helped monitor.
    progress well and take corrective action as problems arose.
   Grounding projects in country strategy is a factor contributing to success.
    Compared to PSMAC and PSMAL, PFMP was better grounded in country
    strategy. There was an economy-wide approach supporting the project that
    extended to project monitoring and supervision. Such an approach received
    greater attention and support from the highest echelons of the politicians in
    power, who were elected on a basis of their commitment to a reform strategy.
   Finally, when the different elements of a project fit together well, the project has a
    greater probability of success. The different elements of the PFMP fit each other
    better with one another than those of either the PSMAC or the PSMAL and were
    not as widely dispersed as the two FYR Macedonia operations.




                                                                 Vinod Thomas
                                                          Director General, Evaluation
1.   Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the
Slovak Republic: Comparative Project Performance
Assessment

1.1      This clustered Project Performance Assessment Report (PP AR) examines the
comparative performance of three projects: the Public Sector Management Adjustment .
Credit (PSMAC) (2002) and Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL)
(2004) of the FYR of Macedonia and the Public Finance Management Project (PFMP)
(2003) of the Slovak Republic. Given the coverage of the project, the main theme of the
report is public sector management and related public financial management. The report
gleans lessons for similar contexts and evaluates overall outcomes, risk to development
outcome, and Bank and borrower performances. At the same time, it is important to
recognize at the outset that differences in the nature and coverage of the operations (two.
development policy operations versus a small technical assistance project), as well as in
the country political and economic backdrop, make for a less~than~fair comparison in
many respects.

COUNTRY CONTEXT

1.2     The public sector management adjustment operations of the FYR of Macedonia
and the public finance management project of the Slovak Republic have some core
elements in common. However, it is more the different country and sector contrasts than
common elements that makes analysis of the experiences in this clustered PPAR
worthwhile and contains important lessons for such projects in the future.

1.3      The two countries have some common elements in their political make-up,
yielding a common theme of public resource management. Both countries were in the East
European bloc and were parts of larger countries-Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia. They
had somewhat different political orientations. The FYR of Macedonia, as a part of the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, sought to simulate a competitive
economy through administered prices in the 1960s and 1970s in an attempt to practice
market socialism. Czechoslovakia, in contrast, was a relatively liberal industrial economy
within the former Eastern European bloc in that it gave greater autonomy to its public
enterprises. After 1990, both countries engaged in the process oftransitioning to market
economies. Even though by that time FYR Macedonia was in some respects (e.g. small-
scale privatization and price liberalization) more advanced than the Slovak Republic, the
latter managed to make faster progress.

SECTOR CONTEXT

1.4      Both countries were motivated to undertake public sector management and public
finance reforms as precursors to joining the European Union (EU). The Slovak Republic
                                              2


joined the ED in 2004 and met the Maastricht criteria and joined the European Exchange
Rate Mechanism (ERM II) at the beginning of 2009. It graduated from the World Bank at
the end of2008. The FYR of Macedonia, however, has yet to become a member of the
ED. It was accepted as an accession candidate in December 2005 and continues to borrow
from the World Bank.

1.5       The FYR of Macedonia had to create a modem public sector to address the many
challenges faced by the East European block as former centrally planned economies; the
role of the government had to be redefined to accommodate a private sector-led market
economy. Thus there was a need for a strong reform agenda to modernize the public sector
so that it could make sound decisions within a well-defined macroeconomic and fiscal .
framework, deliver services to the public efficiently, and address issues related to social
protection, such as health, pensions, and unemployment benefits. The two operations were
in the vanguard of that effort for FYR of Macedonia.

1.6       In the case of the Slovak Republic, public finance reforms (in a broad sense, as a
subset of public sector reforms) were necessary for entry into EU and to join the ERM II.
Its public finance management reform agenda was to strengthen the Slovak Republic's
institutional capacity to use public resources more effectively, efficiently, and
transparently. This was in line with government priorities, which were motivated by the
desire to join ERM II after becoming a member of the EU. The project sought to assist the
government to improve budgetary and financial management of its operations, in
particular improving the budget process within an overall medium-term budgetary
framework, strengthening macroeconomic analysis, and establishing debt and liquidity
management capacity. The Slovak Republic did not require ftmds as much as it did
technical assistance. The PFMP helped the country identify and define the technical
assistance needed to address the development policy objectives (DPO) of the project.

PROJECT CONTEXT

1.7      The Macedonia operations were both Development Policy Operations: the
PSMAC (2002) and the PSMAL (2004) in the amount of$15 million and $30 million,
respectively. The Slovak Republic's PFMP (2003) was an investment loan that supported
technical assistance for $5 million; the total project ftmds used were even less than this
amount because EU-PHARE ftmds were available to support changes necessary to attain
ED membership. As development policy loans, the two public sector management
operations had tranches, but the PFMP, as an investment loan, did not. Even though all of
the project amounts were relatively small compared to the regional average at the time,
they laid the basis for future support in an important ways, giving the countries and the
Bank experience to use in implementing future projects, particularly in the case of the
FYR of Macedonia. The Slovak Republic, however, graduated from the Bank at the end of
2008 and has been pursuing a reform agenda via its membership in the ED and the
ERMII.

1.8      There are several differences between the two types of projects that influenced
their outcomes.
                                           3


   Coverage: The FYR of Macedonia operations-both the PSMAC (2002) and the
    PSMAL (2004) -had wider objectives and covered different aspects of public
    sector reforms. PSMAC objectives ranged from central budget formulation and
    implementation to public sector activities beyond the central budget in such areas
    as health, and pension fund and civil service reforms. PSMAL addressed these
    activities plus audit and procurement. The Slovak project had a narrower focus. It
    concentrated on public finance policy formulation, institutional development, and
    fiscal analysis and forecasts. Given the nature of their respective coverage, the two
    Macedonian projects were larger and more complex than the Slovak project.

   Phased versus a Single Operation: Both types of projects had institutional
    development at their core, but the FYR of Macedonia proj ects went beyond a
    single operation to a pair of phased programmatic operations. PSMAL was, in a
    sense, a continuation of PSMAC. The PFMP was a single operation with no
    continuation visualized. In fact, nearly all its objectives were achieved before the
    project closed, with the exception of the full adoption of program budgeting. In
    contrast, PSMAC left a considerable unfinished agenda when it closed. Although
    the PSMAL did better, it also left a few elements unfinished that were picked up'
    by a Programmatic Development Policy Loan (2005). The PFMP, a single
    operation with a narrower focus, faced less of an implementation challenge.

   Political Contexts: The PSMAC was undertaken during a turbulent political and
    economic context-the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis in 1999 and an internal
    ethnic crisis in 2001. There was less turbulence during the implementation of the
    PSMAL. Although the operations were crafted to take account of political factors,
    the turbulence that materialized did affect implementation, particularly in the caSe
    of the PSMAC. In the case of the PFMP, there was relatively little or no political
    or economic turbulence. The PFMP had a better chance of achieving its
    development objectives than either the PSMAC or the PSMAL, and it achieved
    greater efficacy.

   Design and Preparation: Differences in project design also had their impact on
    outcomes. The PFMP was a finely-crafted, results-based project. In addition, it was
    designed to fit the political cycle, which increased its chances of success. In    .
    comparison, the FYR of Macedonia operations had neither a well-crafted design
    nor apparent cognizance of the importance of political factors for the success of the
    project.

   Macroeconomic Environments: The PSMAC experienced delays, as a result both
    of exogenous factors and of the country not being able to meet the macroeconomic
    stability criterion required for a development policy operation. PSMAL had a
    better environment for implementation because it was begun after the delayed
    implementation of the PSMAC. PFMP did not experience such adverse conditions.
    It could and did start on time and was completed on schedule. So external
    circumstances came to playa larger role in the outcome in the PSMAC than in the
    PSMAL and the PFMP.
                                                 4


          Supervision: There was a difference in supervision. The PSMAC had less
           supervision than the PSMAL given the external factors. The latter had more
           supervision by the Bank than the PFMP, which was almost completely carried out
           by the Slovak authorities. As mentioned above, the Slovak Republic was more
           committed to the success of the project, given that entry into the EU was imminent
           for it (2004). The Slovak Republic joined ERM II in early 2009, meeting
           Maastricht criteria, and graduated from the World Bank in the same year. The
           PFMP was almost wholly supervised and monitored by the government. This
           results-based project had clear indicators of progress that could be easily
           monitored and supervised.

          Dominance of Technical Assistance: Although all three projects had significant
           technical assistance components, the PFMP was wholly based on technical
           assistance. In addition, Dutch trust funds supported the two FYR of Macedonia
           projects, and EU-PHARE funds supported the Slovak project. The Slovak
           Republic was less in need of resource transfer than the FYR of Macedonia, as the
           latter faced a bigger challenge in terms of financing its deficit. In addition, the .
           technical assistance that was directed at the Slovak Republic was better targeted
           and had a more flexible approach. Also, better project preparation under the PFMP
           and PSMAL was reflected in an ability to use technical assistance better.
           Moreover, in the case of the PFMP, a more flexible approach to the use of
           technical assistance funds helped in making important mid-project corrections.
           Dutch funds supported a project implementation unit for the PSMAC and PSMAL.
           After initial problems that were associated largely with the PSMAC, technical
           assistance support worked well for theFYR of Macedonia.

1.9     The three projects in the two countries also had certain similarities that are worth
noting:

           Reform of the Public Sector and Public Finance: All three projects addressed a
            crucial area of reform within the public sector for the transition to a market
            economy. The core program under all three projects related to budgetary reform.
            As indicated above, the FYR of Macedonia had more obstacles to overcome than
            the Slovak Republic to achieve public sector reform., In terms of institutional
            development, the Slovak Republic was more advanced. Thus the two FYR of
            Macedonia projects intrinsically posed more of a challenge than the Slovak
            project, irrespective of the sector in which they were implemented.

           Common Period: All three projects were undertaken during the 2002-07 period,
            when World Bank thinking was undergoing changes in light of the experience
            from earlier development policy operations. The DPO instrument proved to have
            short lifespan to achieve long-term goals. Moreover, supporting institutional
            reforms on a large scale. was new to the Bank. The planned reform was on a wider
            scale in the FYR of Macedonia than in the Slovak Republic. The adjustment
            instrument was less suited to institutional change in general, given that
            institutional change takes time.
                                                5


          Prior Analytical Work: Both countries had had good analyses prior to the projects,
           which helped in all three cases. The projects were based on Country Assistance
           Strategies, Development Policy Reviews (DPRs), Country Financial
           Accountability Assessment (CFAAs), Country Procurement Assessment Reviews
           (CPARs), and Pubic Expenditure and Institutional Reviews (PEIRs). All three
           projects also had good quality at entry as determined by the Quality Assurance
           Group. The PFMP had a relatively higher rating, as it was an exceptionally well-
           prepared project. Moreover, it was a new style, results-based project, with clear
           input and output indicators and a well-defined schedule.

          Cofinancing Arrangements: All three projects had cofinancing arrangements. The
           PFMP had some elements that were changed within its overall components. It was
           initially supported by EU텾HARE funds and USAID. In contrast, neither the
           PSMAC nor the PSMAL had any changes in elements overall or within any
           component. The PSMAC and PSMAL were supported by a Dutch trust fund. The
           changing elements of foreign support during project implementation may have
           contributed to the better outcome of the PFMP, because it was flexibly used and
           permitted midcourse corrections.

1.10     Given the above, differences dominated the similarities among the three projects
and accounted for the different outcomes. The PFMP had a more satisfactory overall
outcome than the PSMAC and the PSMAL, whereas the last had a better overall outcome
than the PSMAC. The ratings with respect to other aspects, risks to development outcome
and Bank and borrower performance, are more nuanced. Public Expenditure and Financial
Accountability (PEFA) and Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA)
indicators for the three years (2000, 2003, and 2006) show, in general, better outcomes for
the PFMP than the PSMAC and PSMAL. Thus, four overall indicators for the two
countries show that, with respect to quality of budget and financial management,
efficiency of revenue mobilization, public sector management on average, and overall
CPIA indicators were consistently higher for the Slovak Republic than for FYR of
Macedonia during the 2000-06 period.

1.11    The Slovak Republic started with better initial conditions, and it showed strong.
performance in all categories and scored the highest possible in efficiency in resource
mobilization; it also had a near-perfect score in the overall CPIA rating. The FYR of
Macedonia demonstrated some progress but less than the Slovak Republic, indicating the
extent of the remaining ag~nda.

1.12       Overall outcomes for the three projects are summarized as follows:

1.13     FYR ofMacedonia Public Sector Management Credit (2002): This is rated as
moderately unsatisfactory. Although the PSMAC achieved some progress with respect to
reforming the budget process and associated institutions, it failed to achieve important
objectives within the period of the credit. For example, even within the central thrust of
the reform agenda, the budget reforms did not lead to a significant change in the budgetary
process. Ceilings should have been put on expenditures, which would have led to a more
strategic preparation and implementation process. But it did not. Many of these areas were
pushed into the PSMAL. There was better implementation in the areas of government
                                              6


budget management, such as the separation of functions between the Treasury and the
Public Revenue Office (PRO). The very limited progress in the reform of the health
sector, pension funds and civil service detracted from potential gains.

1.14     FYR ofMacedonia Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (2004): This is
rated as moderately satisfactory. The PSMAL had a better focus and more well-defined
objectives. Like the PSMAC, the main thrust was to increase the efficiency of the state by
strengthening fiscal discipline with elements relating to budget formulation and execution,
civil service reform, and social service expenditure management. The PSMAL addressed
central budget-related issues including procurement and audits, which received an overall
weight of 70 percent. Issues related to the social sector received 30 percent. This operation
had a more direct connection to poverty reduction, as it dealt with health insurance and
social assistance in greater detail.

1.15      Slovak Public Finance Management Loan (PFMP) (2003): This is rated as
satisfactory. It served the purpose for which it was designed and was implemented very
well. The PFMP was a technical assistance loan. The amount proposed was only
$5 Million because finance was not a problem. Even less was disbursed, given that funds
were made available by PHARE and initial support was provided by USAID. By all
accounts it was a well-designed, implemented, and disbursed loan. It was different from
the other two loans and addressed public finance-related issues with a narrow focus; the
small amount was better focused on the issues than the FYR of Macedonia operations and
was a results-based operation. It made an important contribution to the institutional
development of public finance and put different aspects of the issue on a permanent
footing. However, it did not lead to the adoption of multiyear budgeting framework as
planned-hence the less than highly satisfactory rating.

LESSONS DERIVED FROM THE THREE PROJECTS

1.16     It is challenging to derive lessons from project experiences in countries at
different stages of development. Even so, the first three lessons below are of general
applicability. The next three lessons, to some extent, also reflect the degree of
development and progress towards a market-oriented economy.

1.17     The extent ofgovernment commitment was the most important factor determining
outcomes. Although differences were more pronounced than similarities in the three
projects, the one common factor that determined outcome was the extent of govermnent
commitment to the projects. There was less commitment associated with the PSMAC
compared with the other two operations, given the exceptional circumstances associated
with this operation. The fact that a similar conclusion is reached in many other projects
Bank-wide should not detract from the importance of this finding.

1.18     Sound analytical work was necessary but not sufficient to assure success in the
project implementation. All three projects were based on sound analytical work and they
matched govermnent strategy. In the case ofPFMP there was a hand-in-glove match,
because the government adopted the full recommendations of the DPR in its policy
formulation. Such analytical work is based on widely-available sources such as the 2004
Public Finance Handbook.
                                               7


1.19     Concentrating on core elements was a factor contributing to success. Both the .
PSMAC and the PSMAL may have overreached in their ambitions to achieve their rather
wide and deep development policy goals. In the main, introducing elements that were not
directly connected with the budget (but that nevertheless have an impact on the budget),
such as health and pension reform, affected the efficacy of the project. It was clear that
aspects of the projects that lay outside the purview of the Ministry of Finance received less
attention than those lying within the purview of the Ministry. In addition, those elements
outside the Ministry of Finance met with greater resistance from interest groups. Vested
interests were stronger outside the Ministry of Finance, including at higher levels in other
relevant ministries.

1.20      Better-crafted and results-based projects help monitor progress and allow
corrective action to be taken when there are problems that threaten successful project
implementation. Compared to the PSMAC and the PSMAL, the PFMP was better-crafted.
Its results-based framework helped monitor progress and take corrective action as
problems arose, and the PFMP also accommodated changes better than the other two
operations. In addition, its expressly-designed performance indicators created a common
commitment by all parties involved to make the project work.

1.21    Grounding projects in country strategy is also a factor in the success ofa project.
Compared to the PSMAC and the PSMAL, the PFMP was better grounded in country
strategy. There was an economy-wide approach supporting the project that extended to
project monitoring and supervision. Such an approach receives greater attention and
support in the highest political echelons given that the latter are elected on the basis of
their commitment to a given strategy. In all three cases, the guiding principle was
transition to a market economy, with sound public sector and financial management as a
prerequisite for a successful transition.

1.22     Finally, when the different elements ofa project fit together well, the project has
greater probability ofsuccess. The various elements of the PFMP fit each other better than
those of either the PSMAC or the PSMAL and were not as widely dispersed as the two
FYR of Macedonia operations. In sum, the PFMP clearly had a more integrated approach
than the two FYR of Macedonia operations.
                                                8




2.  FYR of Macedonia Public Sector Management
Operations: Country, Sector, and Project Context and
World Bank Support

Introduction
2.1     This chapter provides the context for the two public sector management reform
operations in the PYR of Macedonia. The projects were the Public Sector Management
Adjustment Credit (PSMAC) of2002 and the Public Sector Management Loan (PSMAL)
of2004. The central theme of the two adjustment operations was to support public sector
management reforms.                                                                   .

2.2      The PSMAL was a successor to the PSMAC. It picked up many parts of the
public sector management agenda that were either partially implemented or not
implemented at all by the PSMAC. Without the PSMAL, the PSMAC would have
significantly less to claim in terms of bringing about public sector reforms. The PSMAC
established limited groundwork in terms of legal frameworks an4 institutional changes
needed to improve public sector management. A third operation, which marked the first of
a new three Development Policy Loan series, was approved by the Board in 2005, which
addressed the remaining agenda in public sector management arising from the two earlier
operations.

Economic and Political Developments 1991-2006
2.3      Country context. Prom independence in 1991 through 1995, the PYR of
Macedonia experienced a severe decline in economic activity. By 1995, gross domestic
product (GDP) had contracted by 20 percent, with registered unemployment well over 30
percent. A sharp reduction in the tax base accompanied unsustainable levels of social
spending. With the government unable to control its fiscal position, fiscal deficits
increased steadily to 11 percent ofGDP in 1993, with much of the gap financed by
accumulating domestic and foreign payment arrears. Inflation reached 1,700 percent in
1992.

2.4       In 1994-95, the government launched a comprehensive reform program
comprising an IMP stabilization plan, initial structural reforms in the. enterprise and
financial sectors, and price and trade liberalization. This stabilization effort, along with the
partial recovery in trade that was a result of the reopening of less-costly transshipment
routes, contributed to improved economic performance. By 1996, output began to recover,
and the fiscal gap narrowed and inflation declined to single digits. In 1999-2000, budget
surpluses were achieved with negligible inflation and the current account deficit
(including official transfers) shrank to 3.1 percent ofGDP. However, a huge agenda was
left relating to public sector reform; it included reducing the size of the state, increasing its
                                               9


efficiency in the delivery of services, and undertaking policy reform to support these
goals.

2.S     The 1999 Kosovo crisis (in the neighboring former Yugoslavia with war between
the Serbs and Albanians) revealed the fragility of the fiscal adjustment achieved in the
mid-1990s. The ensuing influx of refugees exerted enormous pressure on government
expenditures. As spending in 1999 quickly outstripped original budget allocations, the
government could not make offsetting cuts. Instead, tax collection efforts were greatly
strengthened, with higher revenues and foreign grants keeping the deficit under control. '

2.6       Prior to the Kosovo crisis, the FYR of Macedonia appeared on the verge of
reaping the rewards of years of sustained stabilization efforts. The economy had begun to '
grow, and the fiscal accounts of the general government registered a substantial surplus
for the first time in 2000, owing largely to foreign grants received to help the country
mitigate the impact of the 1999 Kosovo crisis. Although real GDP remained
approximately 10 percent below its level of a decade before, 2000 was the fifth successive
year of positive growth. With macro-stabilization achieved and structural reforms
progressing steadily, it was expected that improvements in the quality of fiscal adjustment
would continue.

2.7      The 2001 security crisis (a domestic conflict between ethnic Macedonians and
ethnic Albanians) led to a sharp decline of 4.S percent of GDP; a significant increase in
government expenditure (security-related expenditures reached 10.4 percent of GDP);
overall expenditures exceeded the 2001 budget estimates by over 9 percent; and a higher
deficit of over 6.0 percent of GDP was recorded.

2.8       In August 2001, the Ohrid agreement that led to the end of hostilities in the ethnic
conflict was signed. However, investment activity fell and export growth remained weak.
By 2002, the current account deficit rose to 8.5 percent and international reserves fell. The
new reform-minded government that came into power in late 2002 negotiated an IMF
Stand-by Arrangement in April 2003. Sharp budget cuts were made to reduce the fiscal
deficit from S.6 percent ofGDP to 0.1 percent, and the current account deficit improved,
only to worsen in 2004 because of a rise in imports. The exchange rate-based stabilization
and falling international reserves had forced the National Bank of Macedonia to tighten
monetary policy, which led to mild deflation. Consequently, the recovery of the economy
since the 2001 crisis was slow, with a real GDP growth rate of 3 percent in 2003 and
2004. With adjustments to the monetary and fiscal policy framework, economic growth
rose to 5 percent in 200S.

2.9      Despite the progress in achieving macroeconomic stabilization and sustained
GDP growth, the overall supply response of the economy remained weak. Unemployment
continued to remain above 30 perc'ent. About 23 percent of the population lived below the
national poverty line in 2002, a five-fold increase since independence, although the
distribution of consumption was egalitarian by regional standards: less than 7 percent of
the population lived in absolute poverty as measured by international standards.

2.10     Thus, the macroeconomic situation was not favorable at the time that the two
projects were implemented. Unemployment had risen to 32 percent in 2002 and increased
                                              10


further to around 37 percent in 2003. Business confidence surveys done in 2003 revealed
serious obstacles to private sector activity. These obstacles included the large presence of
the state in the economy; heavy regulation, particularly in the labor market; an inefficient
and opaque court system; and policy unpredictability. In this context, public sector reform
ranked high on the government's agenda. The government faced an opportunity to
implement refonns in public sector management that would be crucial to maintaining
macroeconomic stability and improving the delivery of services that directly affect the
poor. The government's agenda for public sector reform comprised six elements, four of
which were already under implementation with support from the PSMAC. These elements
mapped directly into the PSMAL and became its principal components.

2.11     Sector context and overall relevance of the operations. There was a need for a
strong reform agenda to modernize the public sector so that it could make good decisions
within a well-defined macroeconomic and fiscal framework, deliver services to the public
efficiently, and address issues related to social protection such as health, pension and
unemployment benefits. PSMAC and PSMAL were in the vanguard of that effort for FYR
of Macedonia. The main sector context was public sector management refonn, whereas
issues relating to health, pension fund reform, and civil service reforms were secondary.
Their inclusion in the project could be justified on the following grounds:.(a) these sectors
could contribute to a rising fiscal deficit; (b) Bank strategy used public sector management
refonn to "piggy back" the other secondary sector reforms; and (c) civil service refonns
were more focused on linking efforts to rewards and decompressing the wage structure
rather than reducing the wage bill per se.

2.12    Under the PSMAC, the government attempted to change the financial relationship
between public health institutions and the global budget in each fiscal year, rather than
reimburse them based on arbitrary input costs (wage bill, utilities, or related costs), This
would allow institutions to have discretion in allocation spending on items and also would
provide incentives for them to cut down costs. The PSMAC also supported improving
planning and control of the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) and related it to the overall
budgetary process.

2.13     Both the PSMAC and PSMAL were grounded in good analytical work, in
particular the 2000 PEIR, which had identified a wide agenda of reform for public sector
management. The PSMAL also had the benefit of a CFAA and a CPAR. It also benefited
from the experience with PSMAC, as some of its design changes were motivated by the
need to address issues that had come up in the implementation of the earlier project.

2.14      The PEIR in particular provided a detailed analysis and identified the needed
reforms, institutional changes, and procedures to assist the country attain its development
objectives. It provided a sound analysis of the issues relating to public expenditure and
institutions, as well as guidance in building the necessary capacity at the central
government level to implement the reforms. It also provided guidance to strengthen-and
sustain fiscal discipline within a strong accountability and transparency framework.

2.15   Public Sector Management agenda. The public sector management agenda that
the PSMAC and PSMAL supported was in accordance with the priority areas of the
government with respect to efficiency of the public sector. It was a sine qua non for
                                                11


supporting private sector development, in meeting the unemployment problem through
growth by better macroeconomic management, and improving service delivery.

2.16      Of course, much of the weight of the PSMAC was on improving the efficiency of
the state. It concentrated on budget formulation and execution (74 percent), compulsory
pension and unemployment insurance (13 percent), and health (13 percent), all in
accordance with the country's national development strategy and addressing an immediate
need to deal with high unemployment and increasing poverty. The PSMAL had a similar
agenda and weight for public sector management, of which 70 percent was on budget
formulation and execution; two new areas related to public finance management-
procurement and audits. It gave 30 percent of its weight to social expenditure management
and civil service reforms.

Public Sector Management Credit (PSMAC)
PROJECT CONTEXT

Preparation, Objectives, and Design

2.1 7    The World Bank Group's 2000 PEIR had concluded that the existing public
administration in FYR of Macedonia faced significant, institutional obstacles in creating
an affordable, modem public sector that would be able to support the development of a
robust private sector and deliver efficient, quality services. The government accepted the
diagnosis and included the following three components and the subcomponents of the '
PSMAC:

2.18      Budget Management and Components: Under this component, the credit aimed
to do three things: (1) improve strategic prioritization by assisting the Ministry of Finance
to formulate the budget within an explicit macroeconomic framework; (2) strengthen
fiscal discipline and transparency by replacing the existing fragmented tax collection and
government payment system with a single treasury account and a modernized system of
tax collection, while improving the quality of management data; and (3) reduce
unnecessary expenditures by divesting noncore activities. To ensure that these reforms
would be sustained, the project also supported the restaffing and reorganization of certain
units of the Ministry of Finance (Treasury, Budget, and Internal Audit department), the
State Audit Office (SAO), the General Secretariat, and the PRO.

2.19     Social Sector Reforms: This component focused on budget management issues
in specific sectors. In the health sector, it sought to create institutional capacity in the HI,F
to help it better control public health expenditure. Goals included improvements in budget
planning and control (for example, new guidelines for the presentation of the HIF budget
and the adoption of a new HIF general ledger) and a shift in the system for funding public
hospitals from one based on fixed allocations of inputs to one based on performance. In
the social protection sector, the PSMAC supported longer-term measures to improve the
targeting of unemployment benefits and social assistance and to ensure the fiscal
sustainability of the pension system.
                                                12


  2.20     Civil Service Management Reforms: This component aimed to establish the
  legal framework for a professional, politically neutral, meritwbased civil service. It sought
  to do this by creating an agency for civil servants; requiring the Parliamentary enactment
  of the Law on Civil Servants to be satisfactory to IDA; restructuring public employment
, to better match jobs with skill requirements; and restructuring the system of remuneration
  to enhance the competitiveness of salaries.

2.21     The PSMAC was for SDR 12.1 million ($15.0 million) on standard IDA terms,
with a maturity of 35 years, including a grace period of 10 years. In addition, the Dutch
government provided a grant of $3.77 million for technical assistance. The total proj ect
cost was $18.77 million. The IDA credit was a single tranche structural adjustment
operation in support of the FYR of Macedonia government's medium-term reform
strategy. IDA terms were extended on an exceptional basis, given the crisis the country
faced in 2001.

2.22     PSMAC was prepared in 2001 and presented to the Bank's Board in April 2002.
Coming as it did in the wake of civil conflict between the ethnic Macedonians and the
ethnic Albanian population in Macedonia, the credit did not receive full attention and
perhaps not even the commitment of the government, which had to deal with the aftermath
of the conflict. The Implementation Completion Report (lCR) states, "While the Credit's
Letter of Development Policy set out an ambitious agenda, its conditions for Board
presentation were relatively modest. Once the credit had been approved, the government
was then distracted by upcoming elections, which it subsequently lost." That newly
elected government was more reform minded.

2.23     The credit was a single tranche adjustment operation. Although the credit was
approved by the Bank's board on April, 9, 2002, it became effective only 14 months later.
This was because of the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation resulting inter alia
from the 2002 election campaign. It is noteworthy that the appraisal of the credit took
place in September 2001, after the ethnic crisis in July 2001. Despite this, a single tranche
operation was designed, probably because the preparation team had confidence that the .
arrangements for ethnic harmony created by the Ohrid agreement would hold. The
agreement did hold due to the government's commitment and to the leadership of the
minority ethnic Albanians, but the macroeconomic consequences of the crisis were not
foreseen. Consequently, the credit could not be made effective until May 2003, when an
IMF Stand-by Arrangement was put in place with the new government.

2.24     The PSMAC fully supported the medium-term strategy of the government, which
was to focus on two broad areas: general budget management, including health and social
protection funds, and civil service management. Public sector reform was fundamental to
the country because the country was transforming itself from a centrally planned economy
(somewhat less than the other former Soviet bloc countries, given its past attempt to
pursue market socialism since the 1960s). Although the government was committed to
reform and the PSMAC was an important plank in doing that, many events intervened to
delay and reduce the extent of the reform that the country could undertake during the
implementation of the PSMAC.
                                                 13


2.25     The PSMAC was one element in the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)
endorsed by the Board of Executive Directors in September 2001, which provided a
framework for rapid intervention in the post-crisis period. As part of the TSS, a
$15 million Emergency Recovery Assistance Credit (ERAC) was approved by the Board
in December 2001. Two follow-up operations were planned in the area of public sector
management reforms for fiscal 2003 and 2004. They were to be International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development loans. Thus, the PSMAC has to be viewed as the first .
stage of a sequence that began with public sector reform, with the PSMAL as follow-up.

2.26     A third loan, the Programmatic Development Policy Loan (PDPL), was approved
by the Board in October 2005; it addressed issues relating to the investment climate and
further refinement of governance and efficiency of the public sector. l This third loan was
seen as further strengthening economic development and preparation for accession to the
European Union (EU), a long-term goal of the three operations all along.

2.27     The PSMAC focused on the first generation of institutional/public sector reforms
and on areas where reforms were needed to achieve fiscal stability and strengthen resource
management. Although the 2001 security crisis had constrained the government's efforts
to implement its reform strategy, the macroeconomic, fiscal, and political challenges
arising from the 2001 security crisis intensified the need to implement these reforms. A
framework agreement (FA), which encompassed constitutional changes toward increased
representation of ethnic Albanians, was signed by the main political parties representing
ethnic Macedonians and Albanians in August 2001, and constitutional amendments were
approved in November 2001. The FA set out the terms and conditions under which the
security crisis ended. It included resolutions that impinged on the overall fiscal framework
as well as on public sector management.

2.28      The PSMAC counterpart team was led by the Minister of Finance, who oversaw
implementation. 'IDA assisted the government by providing an implementation plan.
However, some components of the credit were not adequately phased in. This led to
delays in implementation. It is likely that those delays led to delays in acquiring benefits.
The areas in which there were considerable delays in implementation related to the HIF
and to reducing costs and targeting coverage, as well as to the establishment of a second
pillar for pensions and wage compression that was needed to relate efforts and
responsibility to rewards, particularly in the upper echelons of the civil service, rather than
a fiscal problem related to the wage bill.

2.29      In the 20-month period between Board approval and project closing, five
supervision missions were undertaken (one combined with the preparation of the PSMAL)
after the September 2002 elections. Although five supervision missions were undertaken,
only two formal project supervision reports (PSRs) were prepared in 2002 and 2003. The
first report was written before the credit became effective. The second PSR it was done
only a month after the project was made effective. A new government, which was elected
in March 2003 and more committed to reform, had come into power. It had signed a
Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF that constituted compliance with the PSMAC

1 Letter from the Minister of Finance, Republic of Macedonia to Ms. Sandra Bolemenkamp, November 9,
2005
                                              14


condition of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. The relative success of the
PSMAL compared to the PSMAC owes much to that new government.

2.30      Many factors made the implementation of the project difficult. Some of them
were outside the control of the government or the implementing agency. Economic
setbacks such as the decline in GDP by 4.5 percent in 2001 and the very slow GDP growth
of 0.9 percent in 2003 also limited the freedom of the existing government to implement
the project. The government that came into power in 2003 had a mandate to undertake
reforms that facilitated the implementation process. Some factors within the government's
control did not help with implementation because of the preference in certain quarters for
more opaque methods of resources allocation. Thus, the failure to reform the health sector
reflects the influence of vested interests that would not have benefited from the reforms.
However, there was better implementation in the area of government financial
management, such as the separation of the Treasury and PRO functions.

2.31     This PPAR finds that the credit could have had a more limited scope and should
have confined itself to the core government budgetary control and allocation aspects and
tackled the reforms later. This judgment is made on the basis that the Bank could have
foreseen that fundamental reforms outside the central budget such as those attempted in
the credit would not get the government's full attention. Government commitment was
directed toward budget management. The ICR states that "in retrospect, the Bank may
have been too optimistic in judging the government's commitment to reform in the health
sector." The ICR notes that the government provided misleading documents to show
compliance in the health sector.

2.32     With respect to pension reform, there were substantial problems. Problems arose
with respect to the transition costs and the type of domestic assets that the pension agency
could hold, among other technical difficulties. The ICR also notes that "essential
preconditions for a successful second pillar were not in place and would not be for some
time." It points out that the second pillar has remained a key element in restoring the
actuarial soundness of the pension system and that the laws and organizations put in place
by the PSMAC would be put to good use at a future date.

2.33      There was some backsliding by the FYR of Macedonia when it raised public
sector wages. The Bank was not ready to sign the credit because it considered this move
problematic; inter alia, it was unclear that a satisfactory macroeconomic situation was
attainable. However, it did sign when an IMF Stand-by Arrangement was negotiated, thus
avoiding a standoff situation. The Bank decided to go ahead with its original conditions to
avoid jeopardizing relations with the country; it believed that some of the backsliding .
could be handled with the PSMAL, which was in the pipeline. This raised the issue of a
political economy judgment, because reforms are more often possible when they are
episodic and opportunistic than when they are part of a well-planned operation that
attempts to take into account every contingency. This PPAR finds that the Bank acted
correctly in the circumstances and was able to work well with the new reform-minded
government.

2.34 The above problems do not detract from some of the achievements of the
PSMAC-that did put in place laws, organizations, and agencies that could work to
                                              15


realize the objects of the credit: modernize and streamline government organizations that
oversee decision making with respect to sound fiscal policies; improve resource allocation
processes; and secure financial accountability. However, the objectives sought by the
credit were not fully realized ..

RATINGS


Outcomes and Assessment

2.35     The PSMAC was a significant step and the first in the series of three operations to
improve public sector management. It was designed to help the government take control
and allocate public resources in line with the country's priorities and improve service
delivery in the key social sectors. Its main outcomes have to be judged in terms of the
principal components that dealt with improved budget management, reform of the health
sector, improvement of the delivery of social services, and reform of the civil service.
Undoubtedly, these were crucial elements in the first generation of reforms associated
with the transition of a planned economy to a more market driven one. The objectives of
the credit and its components were not changed during the course of implementation, even
though the credit was delayed.

2.36     The most important contribution of PSMAC was that it laid the legal basis for
building key institutions and strengthening accountability, transparency, and efficiency in
the use of public services. It was more successful in areas relating to budget management
than in its other components.

2.37     The ICR indicates that the aims of the PSMAC were fairly modest in relation to
the reforms identified in the PEIR. However, it was not a modest operation in relation to
the conditions prevailing in the country at the time. Consequently, this PP AR finds that
the PSMAC may have overreached in not adequately taking into account the capacity of
the government to undertake wide-ranging reform.

2.38     A simple counting of the main objectives, reforms to realize these objectives, and
their subcomponents would find three components (counting public service reforms) and
eleven subcomponents. However, each objective did not have equal weight. The principal
weight (in percentage terms) was concentrated on central government administration and
related budget management (74), compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (13),
and health (13). Another detraction was that each component had a different level of ease
or difficulty and the components obtained unequal government commitment. Most of the
objectives of central government-related budget management did well. After the late 2002
elections, the new government was especially committed to this task. However, the
pension and unemployment insurance components did not advance because of the difficult
nature of their reforms. This difficulty had two principal elements. First, these were in the
periphery of the Ministry of Finance. Second, there were some elements of resistance in
the two sectors to smoothing implementation. Although there was a clear need to tackle
the problems in health and pension funds, these could have been taken up later, once the
principal focus of the credit (to improve central budget management) was achieved or was
well on the way to being achieved.
                                               16


2.39     In this sense, the aims of the credit were not "fairly modest," contrary to what the
ICR states. In addition, given that the PSMAL was planned as a second stage, the reform
of the health sector and the second pillar pension could have been taken up by the
PSMAL. These two issues had to be addressed, because together they constituted a large
drain on the budget. However, getting central budget management in place would have
given a better focus to the credit and limited the overreach that it seemed to have made on
a wide and difficult reform effort.

2.40     Civil service reform also proved to be a difficult area. Here again, vested interests
played a role, particularly with respect to the much-needed decompression of the salary
structure. In addition, the government needed to stay within the budget envelope of the
IMF Staff Monitoring Program, which had constrained it from undertaking the salary
decompression planned in the 2003 budget. Instead, that decompression had to be pushed
to 2004, at which point more watered-down reforms than those that were visualized at
appraisal were undertaken. It is now well documented in most public reform programs that
civil service reforms prove to be the most difficult. The FYR of Macedonia was not an
exception in this respect.

2.41     Thus, although there was a modicum of budget management improvement, there
were large lapses in other components, such as pension and unemployment insurance,
health, and civil service reforms as discussed in detail below. The credit fell significantly
short of its objectives but relevance was high. Accordingly, overall outcome ofPSMAC is
rated as moderately unsatisfactory.                                                         .

Outcomes by Objectives and Components

Budget Management

2.42      Development of Budget Management Institutions: The legal basis for this
subcomponent had been created earlier with the Law on Budget and Financial
Management, and the Rules of Procedures for the Operation had also been adopted earlier.
On that basis, the Ministry of Finance, including the General Secretariat, had to톌e
restructured, the procedure changed, and staffing increased, all of which were supposed to
allow the Ministry and its agencies to consider policy trade-offs within a given
macroeconomic framework. As a condition of Board presentation, the Minister of Finance
was required to approve the implementation plan for reform and commit the government
to increase staffing in key agencies, including the budget department, Treasury, Internal
Audit, SAO, and the Public Administration Reform (PAR) unit. There was progress in
some key elements, such as putting in place key institutional units, but there were also a
few shortfalls. For instance, (a) the implementation of this new plan was delayed and the
role of the General Secretariat in defining criteria for the selection of new policy initiatives
was superseded by the Ministry of Finance in preparing the 2004 budget; (b) the SAO did
not focus on budget priorities until after 2004, when the credit was closed; and (c) most of
the planned improvements in budget management were undertaken only with the PSMAL.
Efficacy for this subcomponent is rated as substantial.

2.43    Strengthening Control of the Wage Bill: As a condition of Board presentatiori,
the Ministry of Finance was required to create and put into operation a database to track
                                              17


employment and salaries, linking individual salary payments to a registry of public
employees by budget user. The wage bills in public agencies had routinely exceeded
budgeted amounts and carried a high potential for expenditure expansion, and there had
been no adequate mechanism to monitor wages and employment in the public sector.
Under the PSMAC, significant progress was achieved in this area, as indicated by the
CFAA. This subcomponent is rated as substantial.

2.44     Development of Treasury Functions: Under the PSMAC, there was an
improvement in budget execution when the former bureau of payments (ZPP) was
dismantled. The single Treasury account established in the Ministry of Finance provided
the payment services for the public sector. A process was set up under PSMAC to create a
centralized system of tracking transactions and registering payments, validating them, and
authorizing payment to be made by the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia .
(NBM). During the implementation of PSMAC, some 16 of 34 districts were brought into
the system. But many transactions remained outside the system, and not all the agencies
and public enterprises used the single Treasury account at the NBM. Thus, the Treasury's
expenditure controls remained weak. Efficacy for this subcomponent is rated as
substantial.

2.45     Development of the External Audit Function: The SAO was established in
1997, but it had not been used adequately and remained understaffed. As a result, its audit
coverage was limited. SAO audits were spread thin; a more risk-based strategic approach
to auditing, with better trained staff, was required for it to be effective. Despite an
amendment to the State Audit Law increasing SAO's independence, there was little
progress under PSMAC, given the size of the task and the limited resources available to
the SAO. Consequently, the issue was moved to the PSMAL when legislation was passed
to focus on entities that posed higher fiduciary risks. Efficacy for this component is rated
modest.

2.46    Strengthening Tax Collection: The law establishing authority of the PRO for
revenue collection was passed earlier. The PRO, Ministry of Health, and Ministry of
Labor and Social Policies (MLSP) were to assume ZPP functions based on an agreed plan
and the PRO was to develop a performance monitoring system for value-added tax (VAT)
and non-VAT collections. The PRO had established a sound tax c.ollection system, and
revenue collection risk was minimized through the procedures for registering, reporting,
and transferring receipts to the NBM with no cash collected. However, there was still a .
problem of tax arrears with firms that were undergoing bankruptcy proceedings (from
which some taxes remained due) and firms that had V A T arrears. Although some
procedural improvements made under the PSMAC were successful, tax collection
remained weak. Because the institutions and processes were in place while collection
remained weak, efficacy for this subcomponent is rated as substantial.

2.4 7   Modernization of the Budget Process: PSMAC-related budget reforms were
expected to modernize the budget process to create a system in which budget decisions .
would be made on the basis of well-defined policy trade-offs within a sound
macroeconomic process. When the project was appraised, only a weak condition was
required to be an "IDA-acceptable budget" in 2002. The government at the time did not
incorporate the recommended improvements for the 2003 budget that were prepared in
                                              18


2002. No user ceilings were set, expenditure guidelines were ignored, and many budget
users exceeded the approved budget allocations. It was only in 2004, with the
implementation of the PSMAL, that ceilings were set and hard budget constraints were
introduced. Efficacy for this component is rated as negligible.

2.48 ,Implementation of Fiscal Impact Assessments: Although the PSMAC had
required the government to adopt a methodology to estimate the cost for all policy
proposals (laws, regulations, and resolutions), such a process, in which all proposals that
had a fiscal impact were to be submitted to the Ministry of Finance, were in place at the
end of 200 1. Although such a methodology was accepted as a condition for Board
presentation, follow-through was less-than-satisfactory. When the methodology was
adopted in a few cases, it did not provide accurate estimates of policy costs and hence had
no influence on policy. Efficacy for this component is rated as negligible.

2.49      Divestment of Non-Core Activities: The PSMAC required the government to
approve a divestment plan for these activities, but because few candidates emerged
through its extensive functional analysis, it was applied to minor areas such as catering
activities. So although the condition was met in legal terms, it did not serve the purpose of
reducing government expenditures and activities. Efficacy for this component is rated as
negligible.

Budget Management in the Health Sector

2.50     Introduction of Perspective Global Budget Contracts for Health Institutions:
Regarding the goal of improving budget management in the health sector, the PSMAC
required the government to change the financial relationship between the HIF and public
individual health institutions; this meant that the government would work toward a global
budget at the beginning of each fiscal year rather than reimburse institutions based on
arbitrary costs (for example, wage bills and utilities, among other costs). This move was
meant to help these institutions be discrete in allocating their expenses and remain eligible
to receive modest bonuses as inducement to improve their own performance. As a
condition of Board presentation, the government was to develop these contracts with all
health institutions. The Letter of Development Policy had stated that the HIF had
completed the process of contracting with health insurance institutions with performance
indicators for each public hospital included in the contracts. However, in fact, HIF had not
approved such contracts. In addition, the language in the Macedonian version of the by-
law was different from the version submitted to the Bank, thereby leading the Bank to an
erroneous conclusion. Consequently, efficacy for this component is rated as negligible ..

2.51     Budget Planning and Control: PSMAC aimed to improve planning and control
in the HIF and to integrate the review and presentation of the HIF budget into the
government's budget process. This goal arose from the large expenditure needs of the
sector and the government's need to contain health sector costs. Toward this end, the HIF
was to prepare guidelines for the 2002 budget that were satisfactory to the Minister of
Finance, as well as a new general ledger satisfactory to the Ministry of Finance and IDA.
It turned out that the HIF had not taken steps to ensure that actual expenditures were in .
line with the budget. Consequently, efficacy for this component is rated as negligible.
                                              19


Budgeting and Policy Reform in Social Protection

2.52     Introduction of Second Pension Pillar: PSMAC had suggested the creation of a
second pillar for pensions, given that the existing system was not actuarially sound. The
second pillar was to be mandatory for new hires and voluntary for existing workers with a
defined contribution-based, privately managed system. By Board presentation, the second
pillar was to have been presented to Parliament. This was done, and the Law of Mandatory
Funded Pension Insurance was passed in April 2002 and a Pension Supervisory Agency
was established later. However, in practice, there was a need to address transition costs
and identify suitable investment strategies and what domestic assets were eligible to be
held by the Pension and Disability Fund. Consequently, action on the second pillar was
put off and taken up in the PSMAL. Efficacy for this component is rated as modest.

2.53    Employment Assistance Program: The MLSP prepared a multiyear action plan
to rationalize the unemployment registration system, improve financial management and
internal control, streamline benefit delivery, and establish a set of performance monitoring
indicators. By Board presentation, substantial progress was to have been made on its
implementation. Although some progress was made, its impact has been negligible.
Employment Bureau staff were largely preoccupied with the administration of health
insurance coupons to the registered unemployed. Efficacy for this component is also rated
as modest because the effort was made but results did not materialize.

Civil Service Reforms

2.54    Establishment of a Legal Framework for a professional, politically neutral, and ,
merit-based civil service and the creation of an arm's-length organization, the Agency for
Civil Servants (ACS). The law provided the basis to create a professional, politically
neutral, meritocratic civil service, and the government undertook two sets of actions: the
creation of ACS, which reported to the Parliament to oversee the implementation of the
law, and a new points system for determining salaries, which was to make systematic
distinctions between position and structure ,remuneration (particularly at higher levels of
the civil service) to enhance the competitiveness of salaries. Subsidiary legislation was put
in place to spell out, among other things, the criteria, standards, and procedures for the
employment and selection of civil servants, as well as procedures and criteria for
evaluating the performance of individual civil servants. Enactment of the Law on Civil
Servants was a core condition of Board presentation.

2.55      Despite the law and the creation of the ACS, sectoral ministries and other public
institutions were able to bypass the recruitment provisions of the Civil Service law, hiring
staff for civil service positions without competitive exams or review by the ACS.
Moreover, the new wage structure was not implemented. Salary decompression was
originally scheduled to occur in 2002. Because of fiscal consequences, however, the date
was postponed until 2003 and then further postponed during budget negotiations with the
IMF. The component was taken up in the PSMAL. Efficacy for this component is rated as
negligible.
                                             20


Relevance
2.56     The National Development Strategy for the FYR Macedonia indicated the
country's commitment to completing the transition to a market economy encouraged by
the prospect of joining the EU early in the decade begun in 2000. The Bank Group's TSS
for 2001-2002 outlined a program of support for the three priority areas: promoting private
sector growth and job creation, enhancing the efficiency of the state, and alleviating
poverty and developing human capital. The country was to build on first-generation
programs aimed at strengthening front-line social services: basic health care, primary
education, social assistance, and labor services. While expanding these programs, reforms
were to focus on deepening the restructuring of the public pension and health systems,
launching private pension schemes, improving the targeting of the poor and adapting
education systems to the market economy. PSMAC had the largest weight, nearly two-
thirds, on enhancing the efficiency of the state and a third on social sector assistance.

2.57     The PSMAC had high relevance, as it was closely related to other documents such
as the TSS for 2001-2002. Both documents emphasized increasing the capacity of the state
to deliver core services and rationalizing public expenditures and reforming the civil .
service. These involved the basic reform of some existing institutions, creating new
agencies, and passing enabling legislation. In other words, the reforms were intended to
transform an economy that had earlier practiced market socialism (under the former
Yugoslavian economy) to a more price-determined market, which required good control
of public expenditures and their allocation within a sound macroeconomic framework.
The budget management reforms supported both the macroeconomic management
challenges as well as the delivery of more efficient public services.

2.58     The 2000 PEIR in particular provided a detailed analysis and identified the
reforms, institutional change, and procedures needed to help the country attain its
development objectives. It provided a sound analysis of the issues relating to public
expenditure and institutions and provided guidance in building the necessary capacity at'
the central government level to implement the reforms and strengthen and sustain fiscal
discipline within a strong accountability and transparency framework. It also provided
guidance to implement strategic prioritization within a fiscal plan; improve efficiency in
program and service delivery; and create a meritocratic, performance-based civil service
capable of supporting the reform strategy.

Risk to Development Outcome
2.59    The risk to development outcome is rated as moderate.

2.60     The project was undertaken at a time of political and economic uncertainty as
described in the sections above. Because the FYR of Macedonia as a part of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was a former centrally planned economy (even though it
attempted to simulate market prices in it planning framework), it had to make strong and
far-reaching institutional reforms to move to a more market-driven economy.

2.61    Those components in the direct purview of the Ministry of Finance were easier to
achieve because of the central nature of the reform endeavor. Others, such as health,
                                               21


  pension, and civil service refonn, were more difficult to achieve, particularly in a short
  time period. However, once the enabling legislation, such as that associated with the
  budget, was passed and implemented, components could and did have an important effect
, on the economy. For that reason, the sustainability of many of the principal components is
  likely.

2.62     The first PSR identified the risks to successful implementation from political
pressure. These risks did materialize, leading to the delay and only partial fulfillment of
the plan. Also, it is noted in the PSR that the medium-tenn nature of the refonn effort
could lead to a loss of commitment by the government. This is a frequent dilemma of
adjustment loans, which have a short-tenn focus whereas the refonn agend~, especially
involving institutional change, need a longer time span, creating a time-consistency
problem. In addition, the IMF Staff-Monitored program had assessed the implementation
of the stabilization program as satisfactory during its first three months, but this went off
track because of the government's compensation of depositors in a pyramid scheme and
an increase in public sector wages.

2.63      The main justification for the credit was, in fact, to develop institutions that could
put the public sector on an improved path to delivering services and maintaining fiscal
stability. The extent to which these institutions were refonned and, in the case of some, .
created, helped reduce the risk to the development outcome. Although not all objectives 'in
this regard were achieved before the project was closed, the project was not intended to be
implemented over a long period. Thus, only limited areas of institutional refonn were
achieved during the proj ect, but these were crucial for providing the basis for future
refonn. It is now well known in adjustment operations in specific circumstances and in
general that institutional development takes time. Perhaps a one tranche operation like the
PSMAC was not the ideal instrument to achieve this. However, a quick disbursing
adjustment loan could have been deemed necessary, as the economy remained depresseq
following external shocks and the domestic ethnic conflict that led to the Bank extending
IDA terms.

2.64      There was some institutional change, but there was still a significant unfinished
agenda for institutional change. These institutional changes were led by the development
of budget institutions and the changing of the nature of management to operate within a
macroeconomic framework. Although the relevant laws and agencies were created, not all
budget fonnulations followed this path in the initial years. The other significant
institutional change that had an impact over time related to development of Treasury
functions that led to a single integrated account, establishment of the SAO, and
strengthening of tax collection. There were short-term problems, such as the understaffing
of the SAO, continued extra-budgetary expenditures, and limited divestments of non-core
activities. Nevertheless, compared to the pre-reform situation, there was some significant
progress, and over time the agencies became more effective and institutions had a good
pay-off.

2.65    In the health and social protection areas, too, enabling legislation was passed and
contracts signed, but planning and budgeting remained weak in the short term. However,
an improved system had been put in place that strengthened management in these sectors.
A fundamental institutional change was made in the civil service refonn, again beginning
                                              22


with relevant legislation but with short~term implementation of the new provisions being
delayed.

Bank Performance

2.66      The Bank's performance is rated as moderately satisfactory in this PPAR, in
contrast to the ICR review's rating of satisfactory. This evaluation takes into account the
fact that the quality at entry was deemed moderately satisfactory. This PPAR rates quality
at entry as satisfactory, given that the credit addressed a well-defined objective of
enhancing the efficiency of the state. In addition, the credit was largely based on the 2000
PEIR, which had been thoroughly discussed with the government, and its implementation
risks were similarly addressed. The PSMAC was the first stage in what appeared to be a
three~stage program to improve the efficiency of the state. The fact that some of its
components were ~ot achieved before the project was closed cannot be attributed to any
deficiency in quality at entry but rather to the unanticipated political shocks and negative
macroeconomic shocks following the ethnic disturbances. However, it seems to have been
somewhat ambitious to have so many components, each of which had challenging
subcomponents that did not have sufficient commitment from the government. Similarly,
the Bank may have been overambitious in design-some elements would have been
harder to achieve in the best of circumstances because they are innately difficult because
of entrenched interest. Some of the problems that arose were more from the side of the
country and the government. The country was going through a number of transitions other
than its economy, including transitions to a new set of political arrangements following
the ethnic crisis. Fourteen months passed before the new government settled in.
Fortunately, it was more reform-minded and had won the election on the platform of
reducing government corruption and delivering better public services, among other issues.

2.67     The ICR notes that the project's ambitions were suitably modest. However, this
report disagrees because of the number of issues the project attempted to handle, its marty
subcomponents, and the changing circumstances in the country. If not for the IMF Stand-
by Arrangement negotiated by the new government, the project would have been
postponed even longer, until a macroeconomic framework acceptable to the Bank came
into being.

2.68     Consequently, this PPAR finds that the credit could have been more limited in
scope, confined itself to core government budgetary control and allocation aspects, and
tackled health and civil service reforms later. This judgment is made on the basis that the
Bank could have foreseen that the government would be more preoccupied with the
implementation of the FA and that fundamental reforms outside the central budget such as
those attempted in the credit would not get its full attention. Supervision of the project is
considered inadequate as there were only two formal supervision reports.

Borrower Peiformance

2.69    The project was prepared and was to be implemented in a difficult political and'
economic climate. The ethnic conflict and its aftermath distracted the government from
paying full attention to public sector reform which, in the judgment of this PP AR, was
complex given the poor initial conditions of the existing institutional, organizational, and
                                             23


staffing arrangements. In addition, there was no complete agreement within the
government about the different components of the credit and the extent of reform and
institutional change that it was prepared to undertake, given the circumstances. The ICR
notes that there was conflict between the Ministry of Finance (which was in charge of
budget and treasury reforms) and the Ministry of Justice (in charge of civil service
reforms); there was likely less commitment from the Ministry of Health for both political
and technical reasons. As this PPAR noted above, the extent of commitment varied by the
type of component and the ministry or agency that was charged with the responsibility of
implementing different reforms. Commitment by the Ministry of Finance was the
strongest and by the Health Ministry the weakest. The latter would have been more
difficult, given the chaotic nature of the health system and the problematic payment
regime for services and pricing of pharmaceuticals, all of which were challenging areas.
The government at the time presented a Letter of Development Policy agreeing to all the
components and subcomponents that the credit aimed to achieve. However, within a very
short time, the government's commitment to reform waned and many of the components,
particularly those outside the immediate purview of the Ministry of Finance, were not
pursued adequately.

2.70     As noted above, the reform of the budget institutions proceeded better than the
others. The areas for which the Ministry of Finance was responsible were able to go ahead
with the reform agenda. But both the Ministry of Justice (civil service reform) and the
Ministry of Health (health reforms, particularly the functioning of the HIF) seemed less
committed and were dealing with more difficult areas, perhaps with less fiscal capacity
than the Ministry of Finance. That ministry was also the main interlocutor for work with
the Bank. It is instructive that there was progress in these two areas only after the PSMAL
attached conditions to them.

2.71     The Dutch Trust Fund (DTF) provided around $3.8 million in technical
assistance. A specially established Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was responsible for
managing the PSMAC's Dutch funds. This unit lost its staff after six months, which
created a problem for project implementation. Consultations with the Dutch authorities
helped resurrect the unit. With this DTF help, the PIU performed very well.

2.72     Given the shortcomings noted in both government commitment and in
implementation, this report rates borrower performance as unsatisfactory. This compares
with the ICR rating of moderately satisfactory and concurs with the lEG rating in the ICR
review of unsatisfactory. The PP AR rating takes into account how these sectors performed
beyond the closing date with more available data.

Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL)
2.73     The follow-up to the PSMAC, the PSMAL, became effective in 2004. It was held
up at the start, because of the delay in PSMAC implementation. The government could not
meet the conditions of the PSMAC. Although the World Bank Board approved the credit
in April 2002, it became effective only in May 2003. The delay was caused by the
deterioration of the macroeconomic situation. The credit was made effective following the
Standby Arrangement signed with the IMF, which covered the period May 2003 to June
2004.
                                                   24


2.74     The PSMAC and PSMAL were closely related. They addressed the priorities of
the government in a given period (2001-06) and were sequenced to carry out the reforms
starting with PSMAC. They were also both based on similar and closely related analytical
work with the theme of improving public sector management in the FYR of Macedonia.

2.75     Preparation of the PSMAL began after the new government took office in March
2003. The loan design benefitted from the analytical work done under the CF AA, the
CPAR, and the PEIR; these were also the basis for the PSMAC. The Stand.by
Arrangement put in place a strong macroeconomic framework with specific targets for
public revenues and expenditure, fiscal deficits, and related domestic credit and foreign
borrowing targets. 2

2.76     The PSMAL was an adjustment loan for $30 million (double that of the PSMAC)
with two tranches, with $10 million to be disbursed with the first tranche and $20 million
disbursed when the second tranche conditions were met. It was a single currency loan at
the Bank's standard LIB OR-based interest rate, with a 5-year grace period and 17-year
maturity. Board approval was in May 2004 and the closing date in June 2005. The project
had a 70 percent concentration in central government administration and 30 percent in
health, public expenditure, financial management and procurement, administrative and
civil service reforms, health system performance, and improving labor markets. The
PSMAL was the second in a series of three adjustment loans (the PSMAC was the first
and a PDPL, approved by the Bank Board in late October 2005, was the third); this
operation aimed at higher economic growth and greater job creation through the
improvement of the investment climate and governance and efficiency of the public
sector.

2.77   The main thrust of the PSMAL was improving public sector management in the
FYR of Macedonia. The loan pursued six objectives or major areas of reform:

2.78     Budget formulation: To increase the usefulness of the budget as a policy
instrument and to ensure that the government would be capable of formulating a budget
within macroeconomic constraints. As PSMAC had noted, the budget process of the FYR
of Macedonia had traditionally been based on unrealistic revenue projections and an ad
hoc and opaque process of negotiation among maj or budget users. The challenge was to
ensure that budgets were prepared on the basis of realistic macroeconomic parameters and
that fixed spending ceilings were imposed on individual budget users early in the budget
process.

2.79     Budget Execution: To strengthen Treasury control over spending commitments
and extra budgetary funds. Reforms in treasury operations undertaken in the PSMAC were
not fully implemented. Hence there was the need to strengthen controls over expenditure
commitments and consolidate extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) under a single account in the
Treasury. This was what was attempted in the PSMAC, but EBFs persisted.



2 IMF Staff Report for the 2006 Article IV consultation notes, "World Bank and IMP engagement in FYR
Macedonia in recent years has been marked by a spirit of collaboration and cooperation between the two
institutions and with the Government" (page 530).
                                               25


. 2.80      Audit: To establish an internal audit department in the Ministry of Finance and
  units in other key government agencies and strengthen the SAO's ability to focus on high
  risk entities. The new government had promised to bring down corruption. The operation
  was initiated by the PSMAL (not found in the PSMAC) and began by strengthening the
  internal audit unit in the Ministry of Finance and establishing new internal audit units in
  agencies that posed major fiduciary risks. Legislation governing the SAO had to be
  revised so it would focus on high-risk government agencies. The SAO was required to
  publicize its findings and report on the government's efforts to correct them. Problems in
  financial mismanagement were widespread in the health sector, particularly in the HIF. It
  was necessary to tighten internal HIF controls.

 2.81      Procurement: To support the enactment of a new procurement law and the
 creation of a specialized procurement bureau in the Ministry of Finance. The new law
 sought to reduce political interference in contract awards. This was initiated by the
 PSMAL and not found in the PSMAC. A new public procurement bureau was to be
 established and staffed in the Ministry of Finance to monitor the law's implementation.
 Data on all recent government procurements, as well as the findings of the Public
 Procurement Complaints Committee, were published monthly. The government was to
 shift its system for procuring government-subsidized pharmaceuticals to one based on
 international competitive bidding.

 2.82     Civil Service Reform: To create a mechanism to enforce civil service hiring
 requirements and introduce a uniform, decompressed salary structure for civil servants.
 The government was also to address more fundamental causes of public service failure
 and weakness in macroeconomic management. At that time, many senior positions were
 filled by underqualified and unmotivated staff. Although an adequate civil service law had
 been enacted during PSMAC, it was not enforced. The new government introduced a .
 payroll-based mechanism to ensure that civil service regulations were enforced. Salaries
 for higher-level civil servants were to be decompressed, consistent with overall
 macroeconomic constraints.

 2.83     Social Sector Expenditure Management: To improve social sector expenditure
 management by undertaking specific reforms aimed at reducing the costs and increasing
 the effectiveness of spending on hospital care, pensions, and social assistance. To
 strengthen incentives for the efficient operation of public hospitals, the legislation
 governing the financial relationship between the HIF and individual hospitals was to be
 revised. It was also intended to streamline the procedure for issuing insurance cards to the
 registered unemployed and to investigate more cost-effective means of financing health
 insurance for this segment of the population. With respect to pensions, it had to improve
 the collection performance and financial management in the Pension and Disability Fund
 (PDF) and revise its accounting, budgeting, and internal control procedures to comply
 with international standards. It was also to revise legislation to remove impediments to tp.e
 tracking and enforcement of individual contributions. Through linked donor support, the
 operation supported technical assistance and policy studies aimed at improving the
                                                      26


administration and targeting of health insurance subsidies, pension contributions, social
assistance, and child allowances. 3

IMPLEMENTATION

2.84     The loan had 31 conditions. Sixteen of them were to be met at effectiveness, when
$10 million was to be disbursed, constituting the first tranche (see Box 1). The other
15 conditions were to be met before the closing of the project, in which $20 million was to
be disbursed for the second tranche disbursement. In the implementation, the first tranche
was disbursed in August 2004 and the second tranche in June 2005. The project was
closed on schedule on June 14,2005. Compared with the PSMAC, the PSMAL was more
specific in nature because some of the institutional and legal areas were included in the
first operation. All 31 conditions were met before the closing date.

2.85      Implementation was smoother for the PSMAL than for the PSMAC for several
reasons. First, the new government that came into power in 2003 was committed to
reforms; it had won the election on a platform of reducing corruption and increasing the
efficiency of the state. Second, there was a more favorable political background for the
second operation, as the disruption from the ethnic crisis was settling down. Third, the
new government had its commitment to reform enhanced by a Stand"By Arrangement
with the IMF in which fiscal policy was tightly programmed and monitored. Thus,
expenditure and revenue issues were tied to a monitored foreign assistance agreement,
strengthening the government's abilit.( to implement the reforms. Fourth, the Bank and the
IMF worked clos~ly, as noted below. The provisions of the PSMAL were included within
the Stand-By Arrangement targets. Fifth, both the Bank and the borrower had learned
from the earlier loan. Sixth, the PSMAL had Ministry of Finance leadership, with good
leaders in different departments and agencies. There was little or no rivalry between
ministries, as there had been in the earlier operation. Finally, the prospect of accession to
EU had gathered momentum with peace restored and the changes in law and the
institutions made in accordance with EU requirements.

2.86      Unlike the earlier operation, there were no delays caused by the absence of a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework. That meant that there was no delay in declaring
the effectiveness of the operation, despite the 14-month hiatus caused by the unsustainable
fiscal situation in 2002.

2.87 The Ministry of Finance provided advocacy within the government and strong
technical inputs to the major components with one or two exceptions, such as the HIF,
which was not within its purview. In these areas, there was closer supervision and more
effort by the Bank. Also, the implementation of PSMAL was centralized and not diffused.
A separate PIU had been in place since the start of PSMAC within the Ministry of Finance


3 The ICR did not include social sector management as a development objective, but the program document
presented and discussed at the Board includes it as an element in the government agenda for public sector
reform. It is the sixth element in that agenda. This PPAR treats it as an objective because health insurance
and pension reform were important objectives identified in the PSMAC, and PSMAL continued that reform
(see p. 2 of the ICR and p. 27 of the program document presented to the Board on May 13,2004).
4   Intemation;:tl Monetary Fund, FYR of Macedonia Staff Report for the 2006 Article IV Consultation, p. 53.
                                             27


to administer the DTF. This expertise contributed significantly to the successful
implementation of PSMAL.

2.88     The PSMAL had a better focus and well-defined objectives. Like the PSMAC, the
main thrust was to increase the efficiency of the state by strengthening fiscal discipline
with elements relating to budget formulation and execution, civil service reform, and
social service expenditure management. As with the PSMAC, greater weight was on
central budget-related issues, including procurement and audit. Issues related to the social
sector received less than a third of the weight. This operation had a more direct connection
to poverty reduction, as it dealt with health insurance and social assistance in greater
detail.

WORLD BANK SUPPORT AND GOVERNMENT PRIORITIES

2.89     The National Development Strategy for Macedonia reaffirmed the country's
commitment to completing the transition to a market economy and acceding to the EU
within the coming decade. The Bank's TSS for 2001-2002 outlined a program of support
for the three priority areas outlined in the national strategy:

2.90     Promoting private sector growth andjob creation. Reforms were to focus on
improving post-privatization corporate governance, enhancing the business environment,
strengthening judicial and regulatory systems, attracting foreign investment, and
increasing financial sector discipline and competitiveness. Growth was to be the main
vehicle for employment generation, facilitated by an employment strategy aimed at
eliminating remaining labor market rigidities, thus reducing the cost of labor and
providing active labor market services.

2.91     Enhancing the efficiency o/the state. Priority was on rationalizing public
expenditures, restructuring state institutions, reforming civil service policies, and
redefining the scope of state intervention in the economy. The capacity of the state to
deliver core services effectively was to be strengthened, while its dominant role in areas
such as infrastructure provision was to be reduced.

2.92     Alleviating poverty and developing human capital. The country was to build on
first-generation programs aimed at strengthening front-line social services: basic health .
care, primary education, social assistance, and labor services. While expanding these
programs, reforms were to focus on deepening the restructuring of the public pension and
health systems, launching private pension schemes, improving the targeting of the poor,
and adapting education systems to the market economy.

2.93.    The PSMAC addressed the priority area of enhancing the efficiency of the state
consistent with national strategy. These same priorities were carried over to the 2003 CAS
for the 2004-06 period in which PSMAL (2004) was negotiated and became effective.
                                               28


RATINGS

Overview

2.94     The PSMAL had a better focus than the PSMAC and better-defined objectives.
Like the PSMAC, the main thrust of the PSMAL was to increase the government
efficiency by strengthening fiscal discipline, with elements relating to budget formulation
and execution, civil service reform, and social service expenditure management. Also as
with the PSMAC, greater weight was on central budget-related issues, including
procurement and audit, which received 70 percent of the weight. Issues related to the
social sector received 30 percent. This operation had a more direct connection to poverty
reduction, as it dealt with health insurance and social assistance in greater detail. As
discussed in detail below, there were important shortcomings in efficacy in the health and
pension sectors, but relevance was high. Accordingly, the overall outcome is rated by this
report as moderately satisfactory.

Outcomes by Objectives and Components

2.95     The outcomes of the six key objectives/components are summarized below:

2.96      Budget formulation: Some 70 percent of budget users adhered to these ceilings.
Of the remaining 30 percent, over time, some 70 percent had their budgets reduced to
conform to the ceilings. This was implemented in 2004 and 2005. Monitoring indicators
show that budget discipline had continued to improve. The IMF Stand-by Arrangement
and the exchange rate based stabilization required strict fiscal discipline with a projected
0.6 percent fiscal deficit that was projected from 2006. Unlike in the past, the PSMAL was
able to support budget formulation within a well defined envelope where the Ministry of
Finance determined a sustainable ceiling for total expenditure and fixed ceilings for all
first line budget users. PSMAL helped to initiate budget reforms with the 2004 budget
cycle to lead to hard budget ceilings (the PSMAC requirement had a soft condition of
IDA-acceptable budget). This component is rated highly satisfactory.

2.97      Budget Execution: The government consolidated budgetary transactions in a
single Treasury account. Some 16 designated first-line budget entities provided coded
infonnation to a centralized database at the NBM. This infonnation allowed the Treasury
to track payments and monitor and validate requests for payments as well as implement
commitment controls for highMvalue contracts that had to be approved by the Minister of
Finance. It led to better control of expenditure on a multiyear basis. In the past, control of
commitments was weak, leading to a significant proportion of expenditure commitments
with EBFs. Consequently, EBF exposure to weak private banks was reduced and over the
longer tenn the government could use EBF deposits for liquidity management. Efficacy
for this component is rated as substantial.

2.98    Audit: The Law on Internal Audits, the legal framework for internal audit, was
strengthened and was consistent with the EU Public Internal Financial Control System
(PIFCS). An internal audit oversight unit was established at the Ministry of Finance and
extended to other first-line budget users, including the HIF and a few others. Legislation
governing the SAO was revised to permit it to focus on high-risk government agencies.
                                              29


The SAO publicized its findings and reported on the government's efforts to correct them
on the Internet. Financial controls including those in the HIF and health sector were
tightened. Efficacy for this component is rated as substantial, as full financial control was
not achieved by the closing of the project.

2.99      Procurement: A new law on public procurement was enacted (as a condition of
the second tranche disbursement); it addressed the flaws in the existing legislation that had
allowed accelerated procedures to circumvent transparent procedures and had given an
advantage to favored bidders. A new Public Procurement Bureau was established and
staffed in the Ministry of Finance to monitor the law's implementation. This was done as a
condition of the second tranche disbursement, as the Public Procurement Bureau had '
become fully functional. Data' on all new government procurements, as well as the
findings of the Public Procurement Complaints Committee, were published monthly and
this information was posted on the Internet. The government shifted its system for
procuring government-subsidized pharmaceuticals to one based on international
competitive bidding. This component is rated as satisfactory.

2.100     Civil Service Reform: A new organic budget law was passed to ensure that no
new employee could be registered on the government pay roll without a review by the .
Civil Service Agency CSA to ensure that the position was authorized, and complied with
the Law on Civil Servants (a first tranche condition for PSMAL) or the enactment of
legislation to make this procedure permanent (second tranche condition). Also the "hold
harmless provision" that had protected existing civil servants from having their salaries
adjusted was replaced by an agreement to adjust salaries with overall salary
decompression. It was begun in April 2004 and was completed on schedule (satisfactory
progress on this score was a condition for second tranche release). Efficacy for this
component is rated as substantial.

Social Sector Expenditure Management

2.101     Hospital Care: Pharmaceutical procurement. To help achieve this objective,
pharmaceutical procurement was to be done through international competitive bidding as a
condition for first tranche disbursement. Second tranche conditions required contracts with
winning bidders to be signed, which was done by HIF. Although there were some initial
problems, there was success in that costs of pharmaceuticals were reduced after         .
competition was introduced to the system.

2.102      Hospital Contracting: the financial relationship between HIF and individual
health care institutions was to be based on prospective annual budgets. Seventeen
contracts were signed before Board presentation and as a second tranche condition, HIF
analyzed performance under the contracts and suggested revising contracts.

2.103       HIF Systems Audit and Action Plan: A time-bound action plan was adopted
to establish an appropriate policy base for an overall reform of the country's health care
system. It imposed a fixed budget ceiling for health care institutions, established financial
and service performance indicators for the institutions, and strengthened internal and
external audits. Elements of this action plan were included as conditions of tranche release
for PDPL because not all desired actions could be adopted.
                                                     30


2.104         Overall, efficacy for the health care component is rated as modest.

2.105     Pension Reform: Parliament amended the Pension and Disability Insurance
Law and related legislation as a condition for first tranche disbursement. PDF developed
regulations governing reporting requirements for the second trance disbursement. These
actions addressed many problems that had arisen with the establislunent of a second pillar
under the PSMAC. However, the pension system has been recording increasing deficits
throughout. 5 Efficacy for this component is rated as modest.

Relevance

2.106      The PSMAL was highly relevant. It addressed issues that were identified in the
2000 PEIR, the CAS for fiscal 2004-06, the CF AA, and the CP AR and formulated
solutions that were developed in the work related to these documents. Moreover, because
the PSMAL was the second stage of the program under implementation, it was able to
carry through parts of the agenda remaining from the earlier project. In addition, the
experience with the PSMAC was helpful in the design of the PSMAL.

2.107      The PSMAL supported the three pillars of the CAS: efficient and transparent
management of public resources, promoting the creation of jobs through sustainable
private sector driven growth, and promoting social cohesion through building human
capital and protecting the most vulnerable. The CAS had envisaged a series of multisector
development policy loans supported by specific investment operations. PSMAL
emphasized procurement and audit, two new issues that were included in the loan to
address these deficiencies in the PSMAC.

Risk to Development Outcome

2.108      The risk to development outcome is rated as moderate. The project had several
features that ensured that the risks of not realizing the benefits of the project were
moderate. Because this was the second stage of the reform program, the Ministry of
Finance and other implementing agencies had more knowledge and experience about the
different aspects of what the project aimed to achieve. Lessons from implementing the
PSMAC also led to a more focused project design, which meant that it had less overreach
than the earlier project. Moreover, in the design of the project, the tranche disbursements
were back-loaded, creating time-phased incentives for the borrower to undertake the
policy reforms and institutional changes. Thus, the PSMAL had better sequenced actions.
In addition, the requirements to proceed were more concrete-for instance, in the reform
matrix, key legislation required "parliamentary enactment" rather than "submission to
Parliament. "

 2.109    Macroeconomic risks were also moderated because of the 2003 IMF Stand-by
'Arrangement, which put the macroeconomic program into a well-defined and monitored
 framework. This provided expenditure and revenue envelopes to ensure that the
 macroeconomic situation would remain stable during the three-year period of the
 Agreement. Another feature that ensured moderate risk was that many of the past

 5   IMF: Staff Report for the 2008 Article IV Consultation. FYR of Macedonia, November 18,2008, p. 13.
                                             31


spending agencies, such as the HIF, were now audited and payments were made from a
single account. Wage decompression, which would raise the wages of some civil servants,
remained within the expenditure envelope.

2.110      However, risk to development outcome was not negligible because some of the
areas that the loan addressed were inherently difficult to tackle for political economy
reasons. Entrenched interests in the health sector could create problems for smooth
implementation. Similarly, civil service reform was fraught with risks, as those benefiting
from the existing and compressed wage structure would resist change. This was the likely
case with the implementation of the second pillar for the PDF. Under the PSMAC, this
component had proved to be difficult to implement, but the attempt made with the
PSMAL was better-focused and addressed the issue of transition costs and investment
criteria.

2.111      Political risks within the country remained low, given that the civil strife of
2001 was largely resolved through the Ohrid Agreement. The risk from neighboring
countries, which created a huge fiscal shock in the late 1990s, had been addressed through
an internationally binding agreement.

Bank PeTformance

2.112       The Quality Assurance Group panel that reviewed the PSMAL rated it as
satisfactory. However, this PPAR suggests that the project should have assessed the likely
distributional and poverty impact of the operation. Further, the panel noted that the
political economy risks and potential adverse social impact of the financing arrangements
could have been spelled out. The project document indicated that the poverty incidence in
the FYR of Macedonia was moderate, with only 7.5 percent of the population with per
capita consumption below the international standard (less than $2 per day) and data from
the Household Budget Survey also showing moderate poverty. The project noted that the
political and implementation risk had declined because of the peace accord, the reduction
in violence in neighboring countries, and the new government being more committed to
reforms. This PPAR finds that, especially at the time the project went to the Board, it
would have been difficult to give the likely poverty impact in quantifiable terms, although
it seems clear that the direction of change was positive. Poverty could be reduced and
political risks limited by better targeting of the benefits.

2.113      Overall Bank performance is rated by this report as satisfactory. The ICR
review finds the main elements of the PSMAL satisfactory, and budget formulation and
execution are found to constitute a substantial achievement. This PP AR agrees with that
assessment. Other components of the outputs, with respect to procurement and civil
service reform, are rated as moderately satisfactory. This PPAR agrees with that
assessment as well.

2.114      Some of the components with respect to reform of social sector management
proved to be more difficult because of the difficult nature of tackling these sectors (with
questionable procurement practices in health insurance and pharmaceutical products and
pension reform). A couple of elements in the social sector, such as the financial control of
health care institutions, were reformed under the PDPL later.
                                               32


2.115      Bank perfonnance is rated as satisfactory. Identification, preparation, and
appraisal were very good, based on strong analytical work that delved deeply into the
fonner system. The PEIR, CFAA, and CPA all contributed to this good result. The project
design, conditionality and tranching were sound. The project was very tightly designed. In
the end, all the conditions were met because the government was highly committed to
refonn, and a supportive cabinet was led by the Minister of Finance. There were some
disagreements within the government on civil service refonn, a second pillar for the
pension, and refonns in health, they were nevertheless carried through because of the
government's commitment to the goals. It is also recognized that the team that prepared"
the project was strong and that the design itself was geared toward addressing the issues
identified in the analytical work. The Bank saw the opportunity to carry through refonns
in what are generally acknowledged as difficult areas (for example, civil service refonn,
procurement, and heath). The experience with the PSMAC was also instructive, helping
the Bank team make good choices as to what particular areas were to be addressed and
how to design the various components.

2.116      Project conditionality was tightly geared to the different stages and aspects of
the loan, whether it was passing the necessary legislation, creating new institutions (for
example, the Civil Service Agency), or designing delivery programs. Given that it was an
adjustment loan, special consideration had to be given to the macroeconomic situation.
The Bank staff coordinated well with the IMF in certain aspects of the refonn, such as the
second pension pillar, decompression of salaries, and monitoring financial transactions
with the NMB acting as the government's bank. Under the PSMAC, there was some
disagreement about the decompression of salaries that had to wait until 2004, as the IMF
Stand-by Agreement could not accommodate an increase in expenditure associated with
civil service refonn. In retrospect, it turned out to also be a strategically good decision, as
an agreement had to be reached with a majority of the civil servants who could not agree
to have their salaries reduced. An implementation period of two years to smoothen the
adjustment helped.

Supervision
2.117      Supervision was more intensive under the PSMAL than under the PSMAC.
There were only two formal project supervision reports (PSRs) under the earlier operation.
Under the PSMAL, there were five ISRs. The subject areas for supervision were more
intensive, such as the drafting of the new procurement law, which required line-by-line
advice from the team's procurement specialist. Similarly, there was close supervision of
the pharmaceutical procurement process. This was because the support to the HIF required
intensive supervision, given the difficult nature of the subject matter, with vested interests
supporting the status quo and some" key changes being made in the management of the
HIF.

Borrower Performance
2.118      This PPAR also rates borrower as well as implementing agency performance as
satisfactory. Led by the Ministry of Finance, the borrower provided strong counterpart
support for the identification and preparation of the major budget refonns. The counterpart
team had the larger responsibility of actually implementing the six-component program."
                                              33


Of course, support from all parts of the government was not equal or even. This was to be
expected because these areas have strong vested interests. A Minister of Finance who is
committed to refonn can help achieve a wide extent of refonns as the main interlocutor
with the Bank, as was the case under the PSMAL.

2.119      The contrast between borrower perfonnance under the PSMAC and the PSMAL
was significant. PSMAC was implemented at a difficult time and dealt with issues that
were being confronted for the first time, as in other transition economies. Support for
different issues within the refonn program was uneven. One example that is cited in both
the ICR and the ICR Review is the health sector, where HIS regulations were not carried
out as agreed and the version of the regulations presented to the Bank was different from
what was written for the Parliament. Also, the implementation environment for was
different, with the aftennath of the ethnic crisis still fresh in the minds of the policy
makers, an impending election, and poor macroeconomic conditions that did not help the
government undertake strong refonns. There was a hiatus in supervision for 14 months
when the credit was effective. In addition, there were discontinuities in staff (for example,
HIP) who were responsible for implementing some components in these sectors. There
was also a lack of familiarity with international competitive bidding and strong opposition
from vested interests, such as local phannaceutical distributors, who opposed increased
competition.
                                             34


3.   Slovak Republic: Public Finance Management
Project: Country, Sector, and Project Context
3.1      This chapter analyses the Public Finance Management Project (PFMP) of the
Slovak Republic. The project was a self-standing technical assistance project. The central
theme of the Slovak operation was public finance management with a narrower focus than
the Macedonian operations. One aim of the operation was to facilitate the country's entry
into the EU. The Slovak Republic did become an EU member in 2004 and graduated from
the World Bank in 2008 and joined the ERM II in the same year.

COUNTRY CONTEXT

3.2      The 1998 parliamentary elections brought into power a broad-based coalition that
was more disposed toward stronger relations with the EU, the Organization for Economic
Co-operation and Development, and international institutions. It systematically addressed
governance issues and issues related to minority rights, the latter of which was a concern
that had held up earlier accession to the EU. The government implemented an ambitious
program of reforms with much success and won a second term in 2002.

3.3       However, the transition to a market economy has been fraught with difficulties of
both a political and economic nature. The government recognized the challenges of
building a modem market economy, reorienting the role of the state, creating modem
institutions, and improving administrative capacity to handle the transition Consequently,
the Slovak Republic opted for a speedy transition to market economy starting with public
sector reforms supported by the World Bank and EU (Poland and Hungary Assistance for
Restructuring the Economies [PHARE]). There was also popular support for some
economic measures taken to improve the functioning of the markets that had reduced
benefits to different groups in the past. A referendum in 2004 to limit the term of the
government was defeated. This gave some leeway to undertake further reforms and to
remain in power until 2006.

3.4      The country's resolve to join the EU as a full member was a dominant factor in
providing an incentive for reform. The country joined the ED in 2004, joined the Euro
Zone at the beginning of 2009, and graduated from the Bank at the end of2008. Both
economic and political factors contributed to that success. The public sector reforms that
the government had been undertaking since 1999 and their acceleration since 2002,
supported by the PFMP contributed to this success. The ICR review noted that the
"government's success in designing and implementing a comprehensive reform program
depended fundamentally on its capacity to strengthen the institutional framework in which
these policies were conceived, decided upon and executed."

3.5       The years in which the project was implemented saw robust GDP growth that
averaged 5.6 percent during the years 2003 .. 06'. Inflation was low, as were the fiscal
deficits that stayed below 4 percent on average and were on a downward trend until 2004.
Meanwhile, structural reforms undertaken since 1999 had enhanced the flexibility of labor
                                                     35


and product markets. 6 Exports grew at double digits, but the external current account
deficit still doubled to 7.25 percent ofGDP. As early as 1998, the government had
stabilized the economy following pressures on the koruna. The currency was devalued in
1999; by 2000, inflation was reduced to single digits through sound monetary policy.

3.6       The challenge for the country moving forward was to be able to meet Maastricht
criteria by fulfilling the exchange rate stability criterion, the inflation criterion, and the
fiscal deficit criterion (keep the deficit below 3 percent of GDP). Although all these
criteria were connected, the fiscal deficit was fundamental because it not only influenced
the rate of inflation but also the exchange rate. Consequently, creating an institutional
framework to reach fiscal stability was crucial for macroeconomic stability in general and
for entry into the Euro Zone in particular. In this respect, the PFMP helped to create an
institutional structure to lead to fiscal probity and stability in the long run.

3.7      By 1999, the government had initiated changes in the legal and regulatory
systems that were to become the foundation for the PFMP. The government that came into
power (2003-06) was committed to public sector reform in general and to public finance
management reforms in particular. The Bank provided initial technical assistance on
public finance management to the Ministry of Finance in the form of a number of policy
notes on extrabudgetary funds, fiscal decentralization, and public debt management. In
addition, the Bank provided background papers for the Workshop on Budgeting and
Expenditure Management in the Slovak Republic and an important body of analytical
work during this time. These included a Country Public Procurement Assessment (fiscal
2000), a CFAA in fiscal 2001), and a Development Policy Review (DPR in fiscal 2003 ..
The Bank's motivation was to help the Slovak Republic achieve its goal of speedy entry
into the EU and graduation from the World Bank. These two goals were consistent and
mutually supportive. Also, the financial commitment was very small: the Bank's
contribution was less than $4.5 million. The country needed not financial support but
expertise to establish a financial system that would sustain good policies over a long
period. Much of this goal was achieved.

3.8       The benefits gained by the Slovak Republic from past prudent macroeconomic'
management and structural reforms were vulnerable to compromise by losses resulting
from possible changes in foreign interest rates and exchange rates. The challenge to meet.
the conditions ofEU membership had provided a strong impetus for much-needed policy
action. The government's success in designing and implementing a comprehensive reform
program depended fundamentally on its capacity to strengthen the institutional framework
in which those policies were to be conceived, decided on, and executed. Within this
institutional framework, public finance management structures would be the key.

SECTOR CONTEXT

3.9      In 1999, the government had requested the World Bank's support for a diagnostic
survey and initial formulation of an action program to undertake an anticorruption
program. In this context, reforming public finance management was identified as one of
the top priorities. The 2001 CAS noted that to strengthen governance and institutions,

6   IMF, Slovak Republic 2005 Article IV Consultation-Staff Report.
                                               36


Bank financial support would be provided for technical assistance and information
technology for public finance management. In addition, a DPR undertaken in fiscal 2003
noted that the fiscal situation was unsustainable. It concluded that, in the area of public
expenditure management, giving institutional authority to a multiyear fiscal framework
would be among the most important challenges. This was to ensure that program
budgeting was well understood and fully adopted. The DPR's recommendations were
adopted by the government's Economic Council as part of its policy framework. However,
the overriding concern of the Slovak authorities was improving public finance in general
and fiscal policy and related institutions in particular to meet the Maastricht criteria.

3.10      The principal sector context for PFMP was the need to strengthen governance and
institutions to support the objective of fiscal policy and institutions that analyze and
implement fiscal policy, including public debt and liquidity. Public finance management
received high priority as a result. The PFMP supported the budgetary process by linking
strategic policy making to the formulation of programs. The Ministry of Finance was
strengthened and two important institutions were created: the Fiscal Policy Institute and.
the Debt and Liabilities Management Agency (DLMA).

Public Finance Management Agenda

3.11      The public finance management agenda was to strengthen the Slovak Republic's
institutional capacity to use public resources more effectively, efficiently, and
transparently, in line with government priorities. The project was to help the government
improve budgetary and financial management of its operations, in particular in:

        Improving the budget process by supporting the effective implementation of
         program budgeting within an overall medium-term framework and eventually
         moving on to fully fledged multiannual budgeting

        Strengthening the macroeconomic analysis and forecasting capacity of the Ministry and
         tightening its links to other elements of the public finance system

        Supporting the establishment of a professional debt management capacity and
         completing the institutional set up of the new Treasury system together with the
         provision of training in both these areas

        Providing technical expertise to ensure the effective coordination of the overall
         reform effort.

3.12      The government adopted a strategy paper underscoring public finance reforms. It
resolved to undertake fundamental institutional changes. The PSMP was an important part
of its strategy to remedy weak or nonexistent public finance institutions. The government
linked the project to the political cycle and resolved to have clear results before the next
election. It was also prepared to borrow for technical assistance. Thus, the main thrust of
the PFMP was institutional reform aimed at financial management. This was to lead to
budget preparation within a well-defined macroeconomic framework supported by
institutions created by the project such as the Financial Policy Institute (FPI) and the
D~MA.
                                              37


PROJECT CONTEXT

3.13     The Slovak PFMP was a carefully designed project with inputs and outputs
carefully identified; each element was tracked with performance indicators. In addition,
both intermediate and final outputs were identified in advance so monitoring and
evaluation was well defined. There was also a data collection strategy and critical
assumptions that had to be satisfied to ensure the project's success. Reports were
generated with respect to each component.

3.14     The project's objectives were as follows:

3.15     Improve the budget process to help the government improve allocative and
operational efficiency of public expenditures by (i) establishing a framework to link policy
decisions to budgeting and make strategic policy choices through the prioritization of
programs within an available resource envelope at both sectoral and national levels; (ii)
increasing the predictability of funding so that ministries could plan ahead and programs
could be sustained; (iii) providing line ministries and other budget chapters with increased
autonomy and greater incentives for efficient and effective use of funds; (iv) generating a
seamless budget process in which the regular evaluation of outcomes and results would
feed into future budgetary choices; (v) creating capacity in the Ministry of Finance for
regular expenditure reviews; and (vi) analyzing and preparing a policy menu for
appropriate alternative financing arrangements to support a more decentralized system of
public service delivery.

3.16    Strengthen macroeconomic capacity in the Ministry of Finance to help establish
the FPI as the core of macro-analysis in the Ministry and the government as a whole. This
required major technical and organizational improvements, including: (i) developing
close institutional links between the FPI and the Tax Policy and Budget Sections of the
Ministry, as well as with the State Treasury and the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) for
macroeconomic forecasting; (ii) assigning a central role to the macroeconomic forecasts of
the FPI as the sole basis for establishing the resource envelope for the budget process; and
(iii) improving the quality of the FPI's medium-term macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts,
as well as the economic reports accompanying the budget, by improving the technical
quality of the models used and publishing its methodology to allow for public debate and
scrutiny.

3.17     Support debt management and treasury by assisting the government in
(i) developing an institutional structure with the roles and accountability of the Ministry of
Finance and the DLMA clearly defined, with an appropriate distinction between the
formulation of the debt management strategy by the Ministry and the execution of that
strategy by an operationally independent agency; (ii) ensuring the efficient, transparent,
and professional management of public debt and financial assets with an appropriate
balance between risks and costs; (iii) further developing the domestic debt market and its
overall legal framework; (iv) identifying implicit and explicit contingent liabilities and
establishing a system to monitor these; (v) providing an assessment of the quality of
public accounting and designing a roadmap for the transition to an accrual accounting
system; and (vi) facilitating the introduction and improvement of the new treasury systeJ)1.
                                               38


3.18    Provide support in program coordination and project management by
financing technical assistance to help the senior management of the Ministry of Finance
deal with organizational and institutional aspects of implementing the reform program and
address the management of change appropriately. This component was to also provide
inputs and advice to (i) design effective institutional arrangements to link policy making at
the highest levels to a reflection of choices in the budget; (ii) design a monitoring and
evaluation system for the project; and (iii) introduce effective project implementation
arrangements to ensure that the project could provide timely and flexible support for the.
reform program.

3.19     These objectives were related to well-defined key indicators that focused on
effective mechanisms for linking strategic and sectoral policy making to the budget
process. The objectives were not revised during project implementation, and they were to
improve political accountability and the effectiveness of the use of public resources.

Preparation, Design, and Implementation

3.20     Preparation: The PSMP was an important part of the government's strategy to
remedy weak or nonexistent public finance institutions. The government linked the project
to the political cycle and resolved to have clear results before the next election. It was also
prepared to borrow for technical assistance.

3.21      Implementation: A steering committee responsible for public finance reform,
chaired by and including the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, oversaw the
Treasury project. Several directors of key departments within the Ministry, the State
Treasury, and the D LMA together coordinated the overall Public Finance Management
Reform (PFMR). In addition, a senior advisor to the Minister of Finance with extensive
experience on public sector reform provided intellectual leadership and linked project
implementation to wider policy reform issues. The Steering Committee was responsible
for overall policy within public finance reform and strategic coordination of those reform
efforts and oversaw a number of separate, technically focused committees. These included
a legislative review group to coordinate and package future legal changes required to give
effect to the institutional reforms.

3.22     In addition, a project coordination group that dealt with project-related matters
was formed. It was chaired by the State Secretary. A project coordinator and his team
were responsible for day-to-day project implementation and administration. Finally, the
coordination group was responsible for ensuring that project resources were used in a
flexible and effective way in response to evolving needs.

3.23    One area that received much attention was procurement. It was a challenging area
because most of the loan was for financing technical assistance and training. Additional
procurement expertise was provided, given that the Slovak authorities had little or ho
acquaintance with W orId Bank procurement procedures.

3.24     The project was implemented by the Ministry of Finance, with six key ministries
participating. A launch workshop was conducted at the start, in December 2003. A follow-
up workshop was also conducted after two years of implementation by the Ministry and.
                                             39


the World Bank, and early results were discussed in September 2005. Overall
implementation was strategically coordinated and carried out by the Steering Committee.
Moreover, the project coordinating group at the Ministry prepared monthly monitoring
and evaluation reports for the Steering Committee. Progress was evaluated in relation to
the key performance indicators in the Project Assessment Document (PAD) (see Table 1).
In sum, it was a well-organized effort with committed leadership and good technical
support.

RATINGS

Relevance

3.25      In 1999, the government had requested Bank support for a diagnostic survey and
initial formulation of an action program as a part of its anticorruption drive. The 2001
CAS emphasized the need to strengthen governance and institutions and identified
reforming public finance management as a high priority. The initial plan was to provide
financial support for technical assistance and information technology for finance
management. A number of activities provided technical assistance on public finance
management. These included a number of discrete analytical pieces. It began with policy
notes on extra budgetary funds, fiscal decentralization, and public debt management, as
well as a set of working papers for a workshop on budgeting and public expenditure
management in the Slovak Republic. In the same vein, a CP AR in fiscal 2001, a CFAA in
the same year, and a DPR in fiscal 2003 were undertaken. The last item noted the non- .
sustainability of the fiscal situation and recommended that among the most important
challenges was creating an institutional authority for a multiyear budgeting framework as
a basis for budgeting and ensuring that program budgeting was well understood and fully
adopted by the authorities. The government's Economic Council adopted the DPR as a
part of its policy framework.

3.26      The guiding principle for the development objectives was to achieve them in
order to meet the Maastricht criteria. There was a strong impetus to enter the EU, join the
ERM, and become a full member. Toward those ends, important fiscal measures and
institutional structures were necessary, including substantial fiscal consolidation. A
number of analytical pieces done by the Bank helped define both the objectives and the
strategies to achieve them.

Outcomes and Assessment .

Overview

3.27    The PFMP served the purpose for which it was designed and was implemented
very well. Although the original plan wan as to provide investment loan and not a
Development Policy Loan. It became clear at the outset that the best choice was to provide
technical assistance. Thus, the PFMP was a technical assistance loan. The loan amount
that was proposed was just $5 million because funds were also made available by the EU
(PHARE) and initial support was provided by the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). By all accounts it was a well-designed, implemented, and
disbursed loan. It was different from many other loans, given that the amount was small
                                             40


and very well focused on the issues at hand and that the PFMP was a results-based
operation. It made an important contribution to the institutional development of public
finance and put the different aspects of the issue on a permanent footing. The country
needed the expertise of the Bank to reform public finances in a short time. It would have
been difficult for the country to have done this on its own in that time frame. As discussed
in detail below, efficacy for the components was substantial. Together with high
relevance, the outcome is rated satisfactory.

Outcomes by Objectives and Components

3.28   The outcomes of the four major objectives and their components are presented
below.

Component 1: Improving the Budget Process

3.29     This component was intended to improve the quality of budgeting by linking
strategic policy making to the formulation of programs while building analytical capacity
and monitoring and evaluation capability into the budget chapters. The component relied
on large international consultancy services to conduct ongoing technical assistance and
training for the Ministry of Finance and the other six key ministries. This was to be
achieved within three years-the life of the project. There was a built-in time
inconsistency problem, given that changing budget processes through training and
technical assistance would take time. Despite that, the component achieved a substantial
part of the goal. Its efficacy is rated as substantial.

3.30     The partial implementation of a medium-term budget framework (MTBF) fell
short of the project reaching a rating of highly satisfactory. However, it succeeded in
linking annual budgets to an MTBF with indicative ceilings beyond the annual budget,
which proved to be effective in limiting firms, sectors, and ministries from exceeding
ceilings, as in the past, by providing a strong incentive to stay within the ceiling. The
ceilings achieved their purpose of providing greater financial and budgetary discipline to
the budget. They worked as a rolling three-year program and were accepted by the line
ministries and helped to contain excess expenditures.

3.31      This component also led to the deepening and expansion of program budgeting.
Although technical assistance was provided by other donors before the project, it helped
increase the transparency of expenditures, deepen strategic planning within the six
ministries, and ensure better accounting for expenditures that had been in place on a
programmatic basis since 2006. It enabled the ministries to evaluate their performance on
a real time basis.

3.32     Despite these benefits and progress, program budgeting continued to be somewhat
of a mechanical exercise. It needed greater recognition to link strategic decisions on the
policy and political front to the preparation of the budgets. The Ministry of Finance was
yet to receive full support from the political masters to forge a closer strategic link
between policy decisions and the budget process. In addition, although the state budget
was covered by programs, there was limited institutional capacity to evaluate program .
performance outside the Ministry. The indicators used to measure performance were more
                                                     41


process than outcome driven. The government was aware of these problems and sought
support from the EU to create a system of monitoring and evaluation for all public
spending.

Table 1. Key Performance Indicators for Component 1

         INDICATORS                                         PERFORMANCE
1. Strategic sectoral policies   1. Five of the pilot ministries prepared strategic documents that
elaborated in six budget         included program objectives and measurable indicators of
chapters                         performance. The links to the MTBF and the quality of the
                                 performance measures need to be improved over time.

2 Multi-annual budget of the     2. A multiyear budget framework was approved for the years 2005-
central government prepared      07 and 2006-2008, with ceilings for the second and third years that were
and evaluated on the basis of    formally only indicative, but that in practice acted as an anchor for
result oriented indicators       new budget requests. The budget documentation includes
                                 performance-information, but the capacity to use it effectively for
                                 budget decisions is still being developed.

3. Budget process functional     3. Functional analysis of the budget process was conducted and the
analysis leading into budget     recommendations submitted to the Ministry of Finance. Significant
procedure changes for the        changes were made to place annual budget preparation within a
medium-term budget               multiyear context.
framework

4. Annual budget prepared        4. Preparation of annual budgets for years 2005, 2006, and 2007 was
according to a pre-approved      performed according to the agreed time schedule.
time schedule

5. Variation reduction          5. Variance between budgeted and actual expenditures of budget
between budgeted and actual     chapters has declined since 2002, though the strong economic
expenditures of budget chapters performance has made it possible to add new spending within the
                                year.

6. Options for fiscal            6. Fiscal decentralization options were prepared externally to the
decentralization prepared        project.

Source: JeR, 2007.


Component 2: Strengthening the Macroeconomic Capacity of the Ministry of
Finance

3.33      The principal aim of this component was to improve the capacity of the FPI to
prepare a sound analysis and forecast of fiscal estimates and outcomes so as to improve
annual and multiyear budgeting. The project provided high-quality technical assistance to
develop modeling tools and analytical expertise and strengthened the FPI as a key
institution on fiscal policy formulation and analysis. This was a very successful
component and its efficacy is rated high.
                                                       42


Table 2. Key Performance Indicators for Component 2
                    INDICATORS                                           PERFORMANCE
1. Improved quality of macroeconomic and fiscal         1. Improved quality was achieved by construction
forecasts of the FPI and improvement of economic        and application of a new macroeconomic model. The
reporting linked to long-term budget sustainability     new FPI reduced the difference between forecasted
                                                        and actual macroeconomic indicators from 170
                                                        percent in 2004 to only 17 percent in 2006. Revenue
                                                        forecasts were assessed as realistic by the expert
                                                        commission and differed from the actual by only 4
                                                        percent in 2006.

2. Macroeconomic forecasts of the FPI playa central 2. The original forecasting system of the FPI that
role in the budget process and are a basis for setting relied on external forecasts was replaced with one
source frameworks of the budget                        using the FPI's own forecasts and was reviewed by a
                                                       group of forecasting experts. Macroeconomic
                                                       forecasts are validated by expert commissions, which
                                                       have depoliticized the setting of the aggregate
                                                       resource envelope.

3. Close institutional cooperation developed between    3. A routine system of work communication on both
FPI, tax and budget sections of the Ministry of         formal and informal levels was achieved. Integrated
Finance, the State Treasury and NBS in                  information systems, and more importantly, changes
macroeconomic forecasting                               to the institutional framework have solidified the
                                                        relationships.

4. Macroeconomic model methodology published            4. Construction of an econometric model was
                                                        achieved, and the methodology for the
                                                        macroeconomic model was published on the Internet
                                                        on the Ministry of Finance Web site.
Source: feR 2007.
           j




3.1       The FPI contributed greatly to improving the macroeconomic capacity of the
Ministry of Finance with its analytical contribution and highly improved accuracy of its.
forecasts. This permitted the Ministry to have a better focus on all components and
allowed ministries and agencies to agree on a single framework and judge their estimates
in relation to the forecasts. The models used were created by international experts, which
increased confidence in the budgeting process and also increased transparency. The extent
of the success is evident in that the variances of the forecasts improved tenfold. Moreover,
the FPI's work was reviewed carefully by two independent committees of officials,
academics, and private sector personnel. The high-profile competence of the committee
members made it difficult for politicians to challenge revenue and expenditure projections
and hence the FPI's analysis. Thus the analysis was protected from political interference.
These forecasts became highly accepted, given the rigor that was applied to the exercise
and also the open and transparent manner in which it was done. All the projections were
published on the Internet, which was a unique case of high transparency for any country,
especially for one from Eastern Europe.

Component 3: Debt Management and Treasury

3.2    This component aimed to provide assistance to the DLMA to function
independently of the Ministry of Finance and to provide advice to the Ministry on
managing its debt and liquidity in an operationally efficient way, and to minimize the
                                                      43


costs of funding operations. The Treasury functions were to be improved by integrating
the main elements of the State Treasury into the public financial system. This part of the
component was coordinated with an EU-PHARE funded project that provided training,
mainly through an international advisor. Efficacy for this component is rated as high.

Table 3. Key Performance Indicators for Component 3

                  INDICATORS                                         PERFORMANCE
1. Debt management policies were                 1. Split of competencies between the Ministry of Finance,
implemented at the "front, middle and back-    DLMA, and the State Treasury on the "front-, middle-
office" levels in compliance with the "best      and back-office" level was implemented, consistent with
practice"                                        good practice models in the Organization for Economic
                                                 Co-operation and Development. This enabled
                                                 implementation of standard procedures and policies in
                                                 debt management.

2. A legal and institutional structure between   2. The approved regulatory framework for the DLMA
the Ministry of Finance and DLMA was             provides for its operational independence. It acts on
established, to provide DLMA with                behalf of the Ministry of Finance to implement the
operational independence in the future           government's debt management strategy. Autonomy has
                                                 generally been respected, and the DLMA has contributed
                                                 substantial financial savings. In 2005, gross debt fell to
                                                 6.8 percent ofGDP. Savings in bank fees and margins
                                                 totaled about 10 million Euros in 2005-06.

3. Improved communication with investors         3. New communication activities between the DLMA and
and other market participants, with the          market participants were developed. In particular: (i)
objective of making domestic debt fmancing       regular, usually quarterly, work meetings with important
more simple                                      investors; (ii) presentations at investments forums; and
                                                 (iii) commissioning and regular update of information on
                                                 the DLMA's Web site.

4. The Treasury is well integrated in the public 4. Main elements of the State Treasury integration into
finance system and the clients are capable of the public fmancial system were implemented in 2004.
using the system effectively                     The Treasury is fully operational, executing transactions
                                                 for all State budget users. Information technology
                                                 solutions were successfully installed, and users of the
                                                 system undertook extensive training to prepare them to
                                                 use the system.

5. Clearly articulated debt strategy document    5. Under the coordination of the project's advisor on the
prepared by the Ministry of Finance and          reform of debt management, a strategy document was
DLMA                                             prepared in cooperation with the DLMA and the Ministry
                                                 of Finance, which was subsequently approved by the
                                                 government.
Source: feR 2007.

3.3     The success of the component with respect to DLMA functions can be gauged by
the reduction in borrowing costs mainly through the rational integration of the many
borrowing operations that had existed before, where each ministry had a different account
with commercial banks. The DLMA rationalized the operations, coordinated them, and
was able to lower borrowing costs as a single entity, converting different state debts and
guarantees into government bonds that were marketed at competitive rates. In addition to
the improvement in debt and liquidity management, there was institutional reform that
                                             44

allowed for independent decision making by the DLMA and that improved the
relationship between the Ministry of Health and the DLMA. The DLMA also forged good
working relationships with local investors and domestic debt markets that helped reduce
funding costs.

3.4      With respect to the Treasury function, the component showed good progress in .
linking all revenue and expenditure units with the central government and with regional
entities of a similar function, through the creation of a single information system and
continuous training to the staff of the joint treasury operation. Since 2006, the Treasury
supported program budgeting and initiated accounting reforms that were later supported
by the EU.

Component 4: Reform Coordination and Project Management

3.5     This component aimed to facilitate the implementation of the other three
components and supported change management across institutions. It had a feature that
one component was especially geared to the implementation of the other components.
Efficacy for this component is rated as substantial.

3.6      This component made an important contribution to the implementation of the
other components by breaking the implementation challenge down into two areas, each
supported by an advisor. One advisor provided technical leadership and coordination with
the political leadership associated with the project, and the other provided operational
support for the project with respect to the procurement of consultants and monitoring of
performance, among other tasks. A high-level committee provided overall guidance and
direction to the project, but substantive coordination was done through budget officials of
the six pilot ministries. A functional review of the Ministry of Finance, done in connection
with the project, led to a significant downsizing and reorganization of the Ministry. It
created a good precedent for other reforms both within and outside the ministry.

3.7     All other components were completed within the closing date of the project. The
one remaining aspect relates to the implementation of program budgeting, which would
have been a long process in any case. Hence, there would be time inconsistency with a
three-year project and the change in culture that would lead to successful adoption of
program budgeting. It is also noted that coordination, with respect to the program
budgeting, would have been more effective with political-level support that could have
linked ministry strategies to budgeting.

3.8      Some Revision of Components: As a result of the availability of PHARE funding
and responding to some project developments, some elements within the components were
revised. With respect to the improvement of the budget formulation process, the Steering
Committee e~tablished an information technology support subcomponent for the project
that was later transferred to individual EU-financed projects. There was also a
consolidation of some of the consultancy tasks. With respect to the improvement of the
macroeconomic analytical andforecasting capacity of the Ministry ofFinance, there was
a similar consolidation of methodology of forecasting tax revenues and training and study
tours. With respect to debt management and the state treasury, the consultancy of the
advisor was reduced by some 18 months and some originally planned activities were
                                                           45


integrated into the sUbcomponent of the advisor on public debt market structures
development. Similar consolidation~ were done with respect to other consultancies, such
as the development of a system of permanent training for clients and the management of
the State Treasury and the DLMA. With respect to the coordination of reform and project
management, after the contract of the local advisor expired, the functions of procurement
and financial management were split among other specialists. It is noteworthy that these
realignments were made in a pragmatic way and were a kind of course correction that
helped better focus the project and link project management to the different elements
within each component. No development policy objective (DPO) was changed, but some
of its elements were realigned to get better results.

Table 4. Key Performance Indicators of Component 4

                     INDICATORS                                               PERFORMANCE
1. The Steering Committee is the principal place for        1. Competencies of the Steering Committee of the
creation of the PFMR policy philosophy, and the            PFMR were extended beyond the framework of the
legislative group coordinates the legal aspects of these   project (fmanced by the loan from the World Bank) as
refonns effectively                                        the Steering Committee became the principal place for
                                                           coordination and integration of all projects in the
                                                           PFMR. The legislative group was created in case there
                                                           was a need to coordinate legal aspects of the reform in
                                                           the area of public fmance management. Though project
                                                           coordination and guidance were very good overall,
                                                           greater engagement with policy makers in key line
                                                           ministries would have potentially strengthened the
                                                           implementation of program budgeting.

2. The Ministry of Finance is reorganized in               2. Recommendations from a "functional analysis"
compliance with the recommendations of a "functional       including proposals for organizational changes were
analysis" and is the main bearer of public finance         implemented by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry
refonns                                                    was thereafter equipped to become the champion for
                                                           public fmance refonns, coordinating technical
                                                           assistance with line ministries.

3. Effective authority delegated to the Coordination       3. In compliance with the legislation, competence rules,
Unit for project implementation                            and other internal regulations of the Ministry of
                                                           Finance, a management model was created that
                                                           functionally split the professional aspects of the project
                                                           (within the competence of the Steering Committee)
                                                           from organizational aspects, which were the
                                                           responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit.

4. Project is implemented on time                          4. The project was implemented on a three-year time
                                                           schedule. Partial changes and adjustments in deadlines
                                                           1- mostly procurement of consultancy services     were
                                                           subject to consultations with users or decisions of the
                                                           PFMR Project Steering Committee.

Source: ICR 2007.
                                               46


Risk to Development Outcome

3.9      This is rated as negligible to low.

3.10      This outcome is rated as low for a number of reasons. This operation anticipated
the importance of taking into account the politics of reform and planned for it in its design.
It planned to have specific advisors to handle change management and to. bring in the
political aspect of the reform. The high-level committees and steering groups had political
leadership within the Ministry of Finance, with the pilot ministries "buying into" the
reform agenda. The Slovak PSMP planned to specifically incorporate the political
elements in the various committees charged with the responsibility of supervising the
reform program. There was also an attempt to change the culture within the Ministry to
accept and advocate reform.

3.11      There was also the risk associated with the institutional change sought by the PFI,
DLMA, and the Treasury with respect to recruiting and retaining high~quality staff and
those capable of taking over the work of some of the foreign consultants working in these
agencies. There was less of a risk in the PFI given that the set of skills needed in the PFI
were less marketable outside the public sector than those needed in the D LMA, where
staff skills were directly substitutable with the private sector. This issue was handled
through the reform and reorganization of the Ministry of Finance and downsizing and
using better skill sets. Although t~ere was significant staff turnover, especially in the
DLMA, there was sufficient incentive for good quality staff to remain as their salary
structure was revised to take into consideration their specialized and marketable skills.
Improved organization and higher rewards also led to limited loss of staff in the Treasury.
Only time could tell whether the strategy to retain good staff was going to succeed. This
challenge is not confined to the Slovak Republic and is found in most former Soviet Union
(FSU) countries, though it is possibly less so in the Slovak Republic, given that its public
service had better working conditions than other comparable states.

3.12     The other risk was the limited political demand for better M&E capacity to ensure
the MTBF in program budgeting. Although the ICR had contended that there would be
less pressure to improve M&E with high growth and high government revenue, the
incentive to join the EU later led to the adoption of improved M&E work supported by the
EU.

Bank Performance

3.13     Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. This rating is justified on the grounds
that there was good design and supervision support. An aspect that was not anticipated
sufficiently was the possible loss of good expertise in the DLMA and the Treasury, which
had to complete with the private sector to recruit and retain staff with appropriate and
highly marketable skills. Nevertheless, its impact was not significant.

3.14     The project had highly satisfactory quality at entry, given that it was a well-
designed and thoughtfully crafted project with well-defined components, each supporting
the others. In fact, by designing a specific component to carry out implementation of the
other three components, the project broke new ground, ensuring that it would be
                                              47

implemented properly. Moreover, the results-based framework helped give greater
specificity to the project aims while also allowing the various committees established to
judge progress at each stage. The quality at entry was found to be highly satisfactory by
the Quality Assurance Group. No doubt the careful and highly focused preparation led to
this evaluation. The project was based on a results framework analysis with well-defined
project development objectives (PDOs) and related project performance indicators. These
comprised three levels: a group ofPDO indicators, intermediate outcome indicators, and
key outcome indicators.

3.15      The quality of supervision was satisfactory. Supervision was carried out under the
initiative of the Ministry of Finance leadership and a high-level committee. At the early
stages, a Bank staff member participated in the implementation committee, but later
implementation was mostly done through local commitment and expertise. It helped to
have performance indicators at each stage to judge progress and to introduce mid course
corrections. The Bank responded responsibly and flexibly to changes that the government
introduced in response to different issues that arose during implementation. This included
changing the number and terms of references of consultants and bundling different aspects
of the components to get better outcomes.

Borrower Performance
3.16      This aspect is rated as satisfactory. The borrower was highly motivated and
committed to the project, given its interest in joining the EU by satisfying the Maastricht
criteria. The PFMP fitted this imperative well. The commitment to succeed also arose
from the realization that the Slovak Republic had much to catch up on to meet the
eligibility requirements of the EU, even though it had less to catch up on than other FSU
countries such as the FYR of Macedonia.

3.17      Within the project there was ongoing cooperation as well as well-integrated
activities led by the Ministry of Finance. The high quality of Ministry leadership and
commitment helped secure success despite the significant changes sought by the PFMP
with respect to the design and character of the institutions, their ability to change the
preparation and implementation of budgetary processes, and the work of specialized
agencies such as the PFI, DLMA, and the Treasury.

3.18      Implementation also was satisfactory. The project was able to secure high-quality
expertise and to use it well. When there were occasions to adapt the project to new
demands, such as the additional source of finance available through EU-PHARE funding,
this was achieved seamlessly. The Ministry of Finance and the high-level committee took
the initiative to replace consultants who failed to meet expectations. Similarly, when
information technology aspects became increasingly important to the success of the
project, the leadership (the Ministry of Finance) secured EU support. One aspect where
better success could have been achieved was the link between policy planning and
budgeting and consequently, the early adoption of program budgeting. Nevertheless, there
was success, even though it was to come after the closing date. The leadership was also
not averse to insisting on its own methods for procurement when it was felt that it was
easier and more secure in the context of the country than the Bank's.
                                             48


3.19     The fact that the project largely achieved its development objectives in time and
brought about a culture change in budget preparation and in M&E speaks well for the
commitment of the borrower to the project and its resolve to adapt to whatever policy
measures and institutional changes were needed to achieve success. There were a few
areas in which it could have done even better, such as adopting program budgeting earlier
or improving M&E earlier, but these aspects were to be addressed after its membership in
the EU.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         49


     Appendix 1: Boxes on FYR of Macedonia: PSMAL and
     PSMAC Key Issues and Tranche Conditions
     Box 1. FYR of Macedonia: Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit: Key Issues and
     Tranche Conditions (Single Tranche Operation)
     Macroeconomic Conditions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       !
    ,;;,;;;;,;;;;,;;,;;,,;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;o;';;;';;;;;;;;;;;;;,..w;;.;;;,,,;;;;;;;""""'";o,;;;;;;,.............................................................. ~ ............................................................................................................................................................... ..
     Macroeconomic situation:                                                                                                                               !  Satisfactory macroeconomic framework to be
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .t. . . . . . . . . ~!!.pJ~~.~..~y...~.9.~~~..P.~~.~.~!!~!!.~.~.:...............................................
    Budget Reforms
 U.~U . . . f . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                                                                            !
                                    u 렁렁 "' ...... u .. u ..... u ...... n .... u.u ... ,u ......... u ....... ~ ................................... I I I . . U I U . . . . . . I . . . I . . . n . I . .1 '. . . n l l . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .~ . . I I . . . . . . . . . . . .


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i.                              As a condition of Board presentation, the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !                               Minister of Finance was required to approve
     Develop modem institutions for budget                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                               the implementation of the Ministry's plan for
     management through adequate staffing and                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
     reorganization                                                                                                               I government was required to endorse a shift in                                                                                                                  restructuring and adequate staffing while the

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the mandate and restructuring of the General
                                                                                                          . ... ... .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .렁렁.. . . 렁. . r.;. .                   .    . b'iit::'. . .. ... . ..                                                                   ,                               Secretariat. The condition was met.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   톁;.~~gth~~i~g~~~t;~T~ith~ ;~g;


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i                              As a condition of Board presentation, the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                               MOF was to create and put into operation a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !                               database on employment and salaries, linking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !                               individual salary payments to a registry of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                               public employees by budget user.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                              Development of the external audit function
    Strengthen fiscal discipline through financial                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                               As a condition of Board presentation,
    management and control standards within a                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                               amendments to the Audit Law of 1997 that
    strong accountability/transparency framework                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i                               created the SAO were required to insUl:e its
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                               independence and clarify its reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                               requirements.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !.                              Strengthening tax collection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i                               By Board presentation, the PRO, MLSP, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                               MOH were to successfully assume ZPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                               functions based on an agreed action plan and

                                                  ._                                                  . .:.:.~~i.~i.~<>.~.~~;;,~~~:~. ~~~.~::~. ~.~~. :~. .
_... . _... _.. . . . _.. _... . . ._... . . . . ._ . . _... . -.. . -.. _... _... _... _.. .L.. . . _
                                                                                             ! Implementation offiscal impact assessment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   j                               Conditionality required that the government
    Implement strategic prioritization by setting                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !                               adopt a methodology of costing all policy
    policy priorities within a fiscal plan and
    focusing the government's activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                proposals (laws, regulations and resolutions).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i                              Divestment ofnon-core activities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                PSMAC required the government to approve a
...........................................................................................................................................................!..................~.~.Y..~.~.~.~~.!.p!~..f<?.~..~.~~~g~~ ..~~!.~.Y..~!.~.~~:.............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I.                             Strengthen fiscal discipline through financial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i                               management and control standards within a
   Budget Management Reforms in the Health                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                              strong accountability/transparency
   Sector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                              framework: As condition of Board
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !                               presentation, the Health Insurance Fund was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !                               to develop agreed budget plans for all health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !                               institutions for 2002 .
.. u .. " .. u ......u .. nn.u ................. u.u ..... " 렁렁렁렁렁 ~ ........ " 렁렁 u ..... .-렁렁 nu ................................................. u .. n~ ........ u . " u .. u ..... ~ ...... , ............ u ................................. u ........................ u ............................. u ..................... ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . u n n ................................................................................................u   ........................ u.u .. uu ...... u ...................................................................... .



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                            Budget Planning and Control: Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                            Insurance Fund was to adopt new guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           j                            for the presentation of its 2002 budget and a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             new general ledger satisfactory to the
...........................................................................................................................................................1..................M.!~~.~!!.Y.. ~f...~}.~.~!!~~...~~g. .~P.A;. . . . . . . . . . . . . . :. . . . . . . . . . ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I.                            Introduction ofa Second Pensions Pillar: By
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                             Board presentation, a law authorizing the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                             creation of a second pillar was to be. presented
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                             to Parliament. The new pension pillar was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                             mandatory for new hires and voluntary for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             existing workers. It was defined-contribution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             based and privately managed.
   Budgeting and Policy Reforms in the Social                                                                                                                                                                                             I.                            Employment Assistance Program: Ministry of
   Sector                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                             Labor and Social Programs had prepared a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             multiyear plan to rationalize the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             unemployment registration system, improve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             financial management and internal control,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             and streamline benefits and had established a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                             set of performance monitoring indicators. By
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           j                            Board presentation, substantial progress was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                             to be made with the plan and its
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l.. . . . . . . .J~p..~.~!P.:~!!~~J2!?::.......................................................................~......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !.                           Improving the legal framework for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                            professional civil service: A regulatory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                            framework for a professional, politically
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                            neutral, merit-based civil service had been
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                            put in place with an arm's length
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~                            organization, ACSs. A core condition for
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                            Board presentation was the further
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                            refinement of the existing law, procedures,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                             criteria and standards in the civil service.
   Civil Service Management Reforms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                             (But the date of reform of the new
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                             decompressed wage structure was postponed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                             due to negotiations with the IMF).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         !                            New compressed wage structure was to be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         !                             implemented: Given the unstable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                             macroeconomic situation that prevailed in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !                            2002 the new wage structure was postponed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                            until 2003 and then until 2004 given that the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                             Stand-by program with the IMP had strict
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         !                             expenditure controls. This was taken up with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                             thePSMAL.
  Source: Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit 2002.
                                                                                                                                                      51


   Box 2. PSMAL Key Issues and Tranche Conditions

   Board Conditions                                                                                                                                               j   Second Tranche Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                  ;

   Budget Formulation and Execution
   MOF Budget Directorate to adopt sustainable                                                                                                                    !
   aggregate spending ceilings for 2004 budget and                                                                                                                !
   impose fixed ceilings on all first line budget                                                                                                                 I
   entities.                                                                                                                                                      !
-BUdg~t"'c~iiings"'tO"'be'refle~t;j"in"the"finiii"2004''''''''+'''''. . . . . . . . . . . . _. . . . . . _. . . . . . -.-.. . _. . . . . . . . . __. . . ._. . . . ._. ._ .
                                                                                             .                                 .                  . . . . ........
   budget submitted to Parliament.                                                                                                                                I
                  . by. b~dg~t;:y. ~~t톓ti~~렁to. b~렁.    .    .  . . r텺OF톂n. 톍o톙톚eratid~렁;ith렁HiF렁to렁trMsfer렁mF. . ....
렁텮TCtra~s~~t'i~~~
   conducted through a single treaswy account.                                  i accounts to MOF single treasury account.
                                                                                1.................................................................................................................................................................
....................................................................u n .. u ......................................................................................



   Government to submit legislation imposing                                                                                                                      !
   commitment controls on high value contracts.                                                                                                                   !
. 텾~~~~re~~~t. r~g~T~tio~~. to. r~~i'~톓~~. e~톋nt~. MOF. . . . . 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                     .
   approval before contracts are legally valid.                                                                                                                   !
                                                                                                                                                                  !
   Audit
   Systematization Act creating MOF internal audit                                                                                                                I MOF internal audit unit to be fully staffed.
   unit and staffing to be approved by MOF.                                                                                                                       !


. 톁y~temati~~tio~. Act. c~eatini톓~temaf"~ii~:fit. ii~톓t. fn. . .I.톁y~tem~ti~~tIo~. aci. creati~~i톓~temaf"~ii~jjt. ~~'its"T~'"''
   HIF approved by IDF Board.                                                                                                                                     I at least two other first line budget users approved
                                                                                                                                                                  I by respective ministry.
. 텴톙ve톗~e~t. to. ~iibm톓t. t~. p~~lia~~~t. revfsTo~. th~. . .. 1톁AO. t~. p~biish. ~~dit. ~e~~톓t~. a~~l"perfodic:r~ports. . . .
                                                                    .
   SAO enabling act: (a) permitting SAO to focus on I on cases reported to the anticorruption
   high risk budget entities and EBFs; and (b)        commission, on systemic weaknesses in financial                                                             I
   requiring SAO to publish audit results and         management, and the government's progress in                                                                I
   periodic reports on weaknesses in financial      ! taking corrective actions.
   management, and the government's progress in     !
   taking corrective actions.                                                                                                                                     i
   Procurement
   Parliament to enact a new Law on Public           i
   Procurement which is satisfactory to the Bank and !
  ~~~~~:.ith   international standards and best                                                                                                                   I
..................................................................................................................................................................\.................................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                  ! Government to adopt comprehensive
                                                                                                                                                                  I implementing regulations under the Law on
                                                                                                                                                                  I Public Procurement, acceptable to the Bank and in
                                                                                                                                                                  ! line with international standards and best practice .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               . .
............................................................................................................................................................텶.. 텴톙vem~~~t. i~. p~o~~igate . ~~d . re~i'~Ire. ~~e. of'. . . . .
                                                                                                                                                                  ! standard procurement documents and standard
                                                                                                                                                                  ! forms of contract, acceptable to the Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                                                     52


    Board Conditions                                                                                                                                             ! Second Tranche Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                I MOF to begin and continue publishing on, the
                                                                                                                                                                I MOF website the Register of Perfonned Public
                                                                                                                                                                I Procurement and findings of Public Procurement
                                                                                                                                                                I Complaints Committee .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . 렁I렁텮렁staie. ad~~"i~is톞rative. body렁fo~렁pub'ii~. .  .   . .. .  . . . . .  .
                                                                                                                                                                I procurement, without a status of a separate legal
                                                                                                                                                                 i entity, has been established within the Ministry of
                                                                                                                                                                 ! Finance and is fully operational with staff,
                                                                                                                                                                 ! resources, and tenns of reference satisfac~ory to
                                                                                                                                                                I the Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                !
    Civil Service
    Government to authorize a payroll-based                                                                                                                      I Government to submit to Parliament an amendment
    mechanism for enforcing civil service hiring                                                                                                                I to Organic Budget Law establishing a payroll-
    requirements in 2004 Annual Budget Law.                                                                                                                     ! based enforcement mechanism.
                                                                             . .. . . . .. . . .
.Cj'~~e~;e~i. io. i~p~~f"ji톒~'id:h톋~톓ii'i'~~~~;. p~o;'i's톓o~. . . . .I. . . . . 렁 . . . . .  . . . . 렁. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
    from civil service law, so as to reduce net costs of                                                                                                        I
    salary decompression.                                                                                                                                       I
. 톚;ii~~~t톓o. appi~v~. C톁렁La;. ~e~diii~~~. . . .. . .. . .. . . .,.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  consistent with the scale and timing ofCS wage                          i
    decompression as agreed with the Bank.                                                                                                                      I
.                                       .          ..                  .
    톝~ti~j~ct~ry i~pi~;~~t~ti~~. of'th~ . Wage. . 렁. . . . . . . . . . 텶..텯oiio:;~i톒~s. 톋~hie~e톎톝~tisjdct~ry. p~ogi~~~ . i~. th~'"
    Decompression Action Plan.                                             ! implementation of the wage decompression time-
                                                                           I bound action plan agreed with the Bank.                                            !
    Health and Social Protection
                                                                                                                                                                i HIF financial control systems audit has been
                                                                                                                                                                I completed and accepted by the borrower's
                                                                                                                                                                I government and an action plan based on audit
                                                                                                                                                                ! recommendations has been approved by the
                                                                                                                                                                i government.
. 텾hannaceuti~ai"Bur~au.t~. revfse. ruie. book. on. . . . . . .... 텶..톚~rsu톋~t. to톞he. Memo~a~톎톆li. of'UnderStaiidkg~. . . . . 
    abridged procedure for issue of pharmaceutical                                                                                                              ! the borrower has adopted new practices for'
    marketing authorizations in order to eliminate                                                                                                              I procurement of pharmaceuticals, except
    inappropriate requirements for local testing and                                                                                                            I pharmaceuticals from the list agreed with the Bank,
    expert opinions for drugs already tested, evaluated                                                                                                         I and new supply contracts sufficient to meet the
    and licensed in reference countries.                                                                                                                        ! requirements of the HIF and healthcare
                                                                                                                                                                i institutions for pharmaceuticals for at least a year
                                                                                                                                                                  I have been concluded by HIF .
..................................................................................................................................................................!...............................................................................................T ......렁................................................
                                                                                                                                                                  i The HIF is to adopt a satisfactory bylaw ou~lining
                                                                                                                                                                  i terms and conditions of HIF contracting with
                                                                                                                                                                 I private pharmacies, with the agreement of the
                                                                                                                                                                 ! MOH, and publish the bylaw in the Official
                                                                                                                                                                  i Gazette .
. 텵iF톞o톋doPt~~ii;lti~t~ry톌yi~;;s. o~. hospita..c톙~tracts. 텶..텵iF. to. h~~~~oIi~~ted. ~o~tr~c톞~o~itori~g. d~ti톐roiii. .
    and sign contracts with at least 17 health providers.                                                                                                       I contracted hospitals covering the frrst six months of
                                                                                                                                                                i
                                                       53


Board Conditions                                             Second Tranche Conditions
                                                             2004, analyzed the data, and provided feedback to
                                                             hospitals where perfonnance deviates materially
                                                             from contract.
Amendments of the Pension and Disability                     Regulations governing new reporting requirement
Insurance Law, Law on Records from the Labor                 enacted and the reporting fonns for individual
Area and the Law on Personal Records of the                  pension contribution reporting developed.
Insured approved by Parliament and relevant by-
laws enacted to enable the introduction of the new
system of mandatory monthly reporting on pension
contributions paid for each employee individually.
Source: Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan 2004.
Note: HIF = Health Insurance Fund; MOH = Ministry of Healthj SAO = State Audit Office.
1 Satisfactory is defined as the following: (i) contracting with any willing dispenser; (ii) defmition of
adequate reimbursement mechanisms to ensure cost-containment and access.
2 For2004, "materially" is proposed to mean: greater than +/- 5% for fmancial performance indicators and
greater than +/-
 10% for volume and other non-financial performance indicators.
                                                                54


Appendix 2: Economic Indicators
FYR of Macedonia, 2000-2007

 Series Name                  2000         2001          2002          2003          2004          2005          2006          2007
 GOP growth (annual %)              4.55      (4.53)            0.85          2.82          4.08          4.11          3.95          4.98
 GOP per capita growth
 (annual %)                         4.15      (4.84)            0.57          2.58          3.88          3.94          3.82          4.95
 GNI, PPP (current
  international $)
 (Millions)                   11,710.65    11,670.81     12,066.37     12,534.10     13,803.21     15,282.23     16,914.66     18,441.89
 GNI per capita, Atlas
 method (current US$)          1,840.00     1,720.00      1,720.00      1,980.00     2,440.00      2,810.00       3,100.00      3,470.00
 Inflation, consumer
 prices (annual %)                  6.61          5.20          2.31          1.10          0.81          0.28          3.27          3.55
 Agriculture, value added
 (%ofGOP)                          12.04       11.76        12.37         13.35          13.19         12.78         12.72         11.96
 Industry, value added
 (%ofGOP)                         33.71       32.14         30.17         30.68         29.16         29.65         29.48         29.53
 Services, etc., value
 added (% of GOP)                 54.25       56.10         57.46         55.97         57.65         57.58         57.80         58.51
 Gross fixed capital
 formation (% of GOP)             16.22       14.85         16.58         16.74          17.83        17.05          18.17         19.76
 Gross savings (% of
 GDP)                             22.54       14.18         12.35         17.58          14.94         19.60        22.12         20.96
 Official exchange rate
 (LCU per US$, period
 average)                         65.90       68.04         64.35         54.32         49.41         49.28         48.80         44.73
 Exports of goods and
 services (% of GOP)              48.63       42.69         38.03         37.88         40.25         44.71         48.14         54.91
 Imports of goods and
 services (% of GDP)              63.52       56.61         58.16         54.83         60.48         61.96         66.76         74.62
 Current account balance
 (%ofGOP)                        (2.02)       (7.09)        (9.44)        (3.22)        (7.73)        (1.40)        (0.37)
 Total debt service (% of
 GNI)                               3.93       5.75          6.37          5.35          4.60             4.45          8.81          8.89
 External debt stocks (%
 ofGNI)                           41.71       43.63         45.10         41.47         47.88         50.03         50.14         49.23
 Gross savings (% of
 GNI)                             22.96       14.29         12.50         17.82         15.05         19.99         22.24         21.06
 Tax. revenue (% of
 GDP)
 Revenue, excluding
 grants (% of GDP)
 Central government
 debt, total (% of GOP)
Source: DDP Data as of June 18,2009
                                                        55



 Slovak Republic, 2004-2007
 Series Name                                                     2004        2005        2006         2007
 GDP growth (annual %)                                            5.16        6.55        8.50        10.42
 GDP per capita growth (annual %)                                 5.10        6.46        8.41        10.30
 GNI, PPP (current international $) (Millions)               78,254.64   83,540.00   93,511.42   103,733.87
 GNI per capita, Atlas method (current US$)                   6,590.00    8,190.00    9,740.00    11,720.00
 Inflation, consumer prices (annual %)                            7.55        2.71        4.48         2.76
 Agriculture, value added (% of GDP)                              4.07        3.97        3.91         2.86
 Industry, value added (% of GDP)                                35.06      35.32        34.63       35.99
 Services, etc., value added (% of GDP)                          60.88      60.70        61.45       61.15
 Gross fixed capital formation (% of GDP)                        23.97      26.54        26.49        26.09
 Gross savings (% of GDP)                                       23.05       20.19        20.16       23.02
 Official exchange rate (LCU per US$, period average)            32.26      31.02        29.70        24.69
 Exports of goods and services (% of Gnp)                        74.46      76.25        84.43        86.47
 Imports of goods and services (% of GDP)                        77.16      80.84        88.26        87.50
 Current account balance (% of Gnp)                             (7.81)      (8.36)      (7.05)       (5.47)
 Total debt service (% ofGNI)
 External debt stocks (% of ONI)
 Gross savings (% of GNI)                                       23.28       21.06       20.94        24.05
 Tax revenue (% of GDP)                                          15.82       14.91       13.84        14.14
 Revenue, excluding grants (% of Gnp)                           33.96       30.62        30.07        29.10
 Central government debt, total (% of GDP)                      45.04       36.26       41.85        31.33
Source: DDP Data as of June 18,2009
                                       56



Appendix 3: Basic Data Sheet
FYR of MACEDONIA
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT NO. 3628 MK)

Key Project Data (amounts in $ million)

                                    Appraisal             Actual or        Actual as % of
                                     estimate          current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                   IS.0                   IS.O                100

Loan amount                           IS.0                   IS.0                100




Project Dates
                                            Original                       Actual

Initiating memorandum                     0211S12000                      09/22/2000

Negotiations                              01l1S12001                      02/2S12002

Board approval                            03/0112001                      04/09/2002

Signing                                                                   05/0S12003

Effectiveness                                                             05/19/2003

Closing date                              06/30/2004                      06/29/2004
                                                   57




Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       ActuallLatest Estimate
                                                  No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
IdentificationiPreparation                              165.7                       442.8

Appraisal/Negotiation                                included above                included above

Supervision                                             18.45                        51.8

 ICR

Total                                                   184.15                      494.6




Mission Data
  Staee of Proiect Cvcle            No. of Persons and Specialtv              Performance Ratine
      MonthlYear                  (e.e. 2 Economists. 1 FMS. etc.)      Implementation Development
                             Count               Specialty
Identification/Preparation
                                    TTL, 3 FMs, 2 Civil Service, 4
       October 2001           J4    Health, 2 Social Protection, 2
                                    Procurement
AppraisaVNegotiation

    February 2001                   TTL

    October 2001                    TTL

Supervision

    July 2002                       TTL                                        S               S

                                    TTL, Health, Civil Service,
    January 2003              4                                                S               S
                                    Procurement

    March 2003                4     TTL, Health, Civil Service, Budget         S               S

    May 2003                  4     TTL, Procurement, Audit, Health            S                S

                                    TTL, Procurement, Audit, Civil
    October 2003              6                                                S               S
                                    Service, Health, Social Protection
                                        58


PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT ADJUSTMENT LOAN 2 (LOAN NO. 4734 MK)

Key Project Data (amounts in $ million)

                                    Appraisal           Actual or          Actual as % of
                                     estimate        current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    30.0                30.0                    100

Loan amount                            30.0                30.0                    100




Project Dates
                                              Original                      Actual

Initiating memorandum                      0510112002                     03/24/2003

Negotiations                                                              03/29/2004

Board approval                               12/26/2002                   05/13/2004

Signing                                                                   07/23/2004

Effectiveness                                                             0711612004

Closing date                                 11/0112005                   06114/2005




Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
      Stage ofP!,oject Cycle                     ActuallLatest Estimate
                               No. Staff weeks                        US$ ('000)
 Identification/Preparation         91.8                                543.5
 AppraisallN e gotiation       included in above                  included in above
 Supervision                        52.7                                152.4
                                                59



Mission Data
   Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
       Month/Year                  {e.g. 2 Economists! 1 FMS2 etc.}            Im~lementation   Develo~ment
                             Count    Specialty
Identification/Preparation
January 2003                     3   TTL, civil service health
March 2003                       3   TTF, civil service health
May 2003                         4   TTL, procurement, auditing, health
October 2003                     6   TTL, civil service, procurement,
                                     auditing, health, social protection


January 2004                         TTL, civil service, procurement,
                                 7
                                     auditing, health (2), social protection

AppraisalfNegotiation
February 2004                    7   TTL, civil service procurement,
March 2004                       J   auditing, health (2), social
                                     protection TTL
Supervision                                                                          S               S
September, 2004                  7   TTL, civil service, procurement~                                S
February, 2005                  3    auditing, health (2), social
                                     protection TTL, procurement health
April, 2005                     1    TTL                                             S               S
                                                         60




 SLOVAK REPUBLIC
PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 7178 SK)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ mJllion)
                                                     Appraisal            Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                      estimate         current estimate        appraisal estimate
Borrower                                                 1.09                0.63*                     57.80

IBRD                                                     5.44                 4.88                     89.71

Total                                                    5.51                 5.51                    100.00

"'The borrower amount is an estimate of counter-part financing through June 30, 2006, based on data from the
December 2006 audit report. It may not include all amounts spent by government on project-related activities



Project Dates
                                                                Original                          Actual

Initiating memorandum                                       03/14/2000                         06/05/2001

Negotiations                                                                                   04/0112003

Board approval                                              03/06/2001                         0611012003

Signing                                                                                        08/04/2003

Effectiveness                                                                                  09/04/2003

Closing date                                                0110112007                         0110112007
                                          61


Staff In pu ts (staff weeks)
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle        No. ofStaff Weeks          USD Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending

             FYOO                         22                            100.46

             FYOI                         40                            175.15

             FY02                         15                              73.09

             FY03                         39                            208.93

             FY04                                                         12.36

             FY05                                                          0.00

             FY06                                                          0.00

             FY07                                                          0.00

                          Total:         116                            569.99

SupervisionlICR

             FYOO                                                          0.27

             FYOI                                                          0.44

             FY02                                                          0.29

             FY03                                                          1.33

             FY04                         18                              79.40

             FY05                         l3                              48.77

             FY06                          8                              49.62

             FY07                                                          0.36

                          Total:          39                            180.48
                                           62




Appendix 4: World Bank Staff Interviewed on FYR of
Macedonia and Slovak Operations


FYR of Macedonia

Public Sector Management and Adjustment Credit (July 1998)

Pradeep Mitra                      Consultant
Pascle Kervyn de Lettenhove        Senior Financial Management Specialist
Helga Muller                       Chief Administrative Officer

Public Sector Management and Adjustment Loan (May 2004)

Orsalia Kalantzopoulos            Country Director
Cheryl Gray                        Director
William Dilinger                   Lead Public Sector Management Specialist
Sandra Bloemenkamp                 Special Representative, S.E. Europe
Debbie Wetzel                      Lead Economist and Sector Leader, PREM
Michael Lav                        Consultant

Slovak Republic

Public Sector Management Loan

Cheryl Gray                        Director
Helga Muller                       Chief Administrative Officer
Sandra Bloemenkamp                 Special Representative, S.E. Europe
Deborah Wetzel                     Lead Economist and Sector Leader, PREM
Ingrid Brockova
Ronald Myers                       Sector Manager
Roger Clarke                       Retired
Bernard Myers                      Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
Clay Wescott                       Consultant
                                 63


Appendix 5: FYR of Macedonia Officials Interviewed on
Public Sector Management Adjustment Credit and Public
Sector Management Adjustment Loan


Aleksandar U grinovski   State Advisor
Trajko Spasovski         Head, Public Internal Financial Control Department,
                         Ministry of Finance
Markus Repnik            Country Manager, World Bank
Suzana Pen eva           Head, EU Harmonization and International Finance
                         Department, Ministry of Finance
Kristina Pavlovska       Head of Division, EU Harmonization and Internation8:1
                         Finance Department, Ministry of Finance
Maja Bogdanovska         Treasury Head, Treasury and Budget Department, Ministry
                         of Finance
Verica Prokovik          Budget Head, Treasury and Budget Department, Ministry of
                         Finance
Rita Gligorievska        Public Procurement Bureau, Ministry of Finance
Georgi Trenkoski         Director, Health Insurance Fund
lanez lelnikar           Director, Health Insurance Fund
Arlinda Idrizi           Economic Officer, Embassy of Netherlands
Marija Risteska          Centre for Research and Policy Making
Bert van Selm            Resident Representative, International Monetary Fund
Mito Naumonski           State Audit Office
Kaliopi Petkovska        State Audit Office
                                               64



Appendix 6: Slovak Officials interviewed on the Public
Finance Management Project

Section of the State Reporting

        Mr. Andrej Hajduch - Director, State Treasury System Methodology Department
        Mr. Andrej SoUlr - Director, Intrastate and intemationallegal affairs unit

Debt and Liquidity Management Agency

        Mr. Daniel Bytcanek - Director
        Mr. Tomas Kapusta - Director, Debt Management Department
        Mrs. Alena Delincakova - Director, Risk Management Department

Institute of Financial Policy

        Mr. Viktor Novysedlak - Director, Department of the Tax Revenues and
        Fiscal Analysis
        Mr. Stefan Kiss- Director Structural Polices

Budgetary Section of the Ministry of Finance

       Mr. Radovan MajerskY - Director General of the Budgetary Section
       Mr. Alexander Cirak - Director, Department of the Public Administration
       Budgeting

State Treasury

       Mr. Dusan Jurcak - Director of the State Treasury

MESA 10 (Think Tank)

       Mr. Jan Marusinec
       Professor Peter Mederly (former consultant to Education Ministry)

Mr. Juraj Rencko: Former Adviser to the Minister of Finance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    65


       Appendix 7: Country Policy and Institutional Assessment:
       FYR of Maced'onia and the Slovak Republic
        Table 6. FYR of Macedonia and Slovak CPIA Indicators

                                                                                                                                                 FYR of Macedonia                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Slovak Republic
                                                      Quality of Efflciency 0/ Public Sector Ov II BQudalityt old' Efflciency of Public Sector Ov II
                                                     Budget and R                              era     u 'Ie an                                  era
                                                      F/     . I     evenue Management CPIA          F',"     텶     Revenue Management CPIA
                                                       man cIa Mobilization      Average           "I manCla t Mobilization        Average
                                                     Management                                    Jr'.I.anagemen
       2000                                              3.0          3.5           3.1       3.7         4.0           3.5          3.7        3.9
...................................... u ..........................................u ........................................... u l u. . n u .......................... u ................................II ................. I .. U .................... u~ ............. l n ................ u ......................................... .



       2003                                              3.5          3.5           3.2       3.7         4.0           4.5           4.1       4.4
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 . . 111 . . . . . .011 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 . . . . 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . n   ................................... .



       2006                                              4.0          4.0           3.5       4.1         4.5           5.0           4.6 4.7
       Source: World Bank Database
                                              66


Figure 1. CPIA for FYR of Macedonia, 2000-06



                     CPIA Macedonia 2000-06


                                QlJaiity of
                                 f~udget
                                   and                        -+-2000
                                Financial
                                 Manage                       --2003
                                   ment
                               5.0                            -11-2006




                                                              Efficiency
                                                                   of
    Overall 1-+-IH1EI--+-I-+-IEH'I--I-+-II-+-I-+-I~-.1I-----l Revenue
     CPIA                                                     Mobilisati
                                                                  on




                                  Public
                                 Sector
                                 Manage
                                  ment
                                Ave a

Source: World Bank Database
                                                                67




Figure 2. CPIA for Slovak Republic, 2000-06



                         CPIA Slovak Republic 2000-06

                                              Quality of
                                             Budget and
                                             Finanancial
                                             Management
                                             5.0
                                             4.5
                                             4.



                                                                                                              -+-2000
                                                                                              Efficiency of
  Overall Rating ......................'--'-""tHt-'-tr--r-,.....,....,.......,-rl............. Revenue        ----2003
                                                                                              Mobilisation
                                                                                                              -.-2006




                                             Public Sector
                                             Management
                                               Average




 Source: World Bank Database
                                                      68


References
Burnside, Craig and David Dollar. 2000. "Aid, Policies and Growth". American Economic Review. 90(4): 847-
        868                                     '
International Monetary Fund. 2009. Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: 2008 Article IV Consultation'
         Staff Report; Public Information Notice on the Executive Board Discussion; and the Statement by the
         Executive Director for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. IMF Country Report No. 09/60.
         Washington, DC. International Monetary Fund.
_ _ _.2008. Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Staff Report for the 2008 Article IV Consultation,
     Information Annexes; and Statement by the Executive Director for the former Yugoslav Republic of
     MacedQnia. IMF Country Report No. 09/60.Washington, DC. International Monetary Fund.
_ _ _ 2008. Melecky, Martin and Evgenij Najdov. Comparing Constraints to Economic Stabilization in
     Macedonia and Slovakia: Macro Estimates with Micro Narratives". Policy Research Working Paper,
     No: 4691. Washington, DC. International Monetary Fund.
_ _ _ ,2007. Slovak Republic: Article IV Consultation-Staff Report; and Public Information Notice on the
      Executive Board Discussion. IMF Country Report No. 07/226. Washington, DC. International
      Monetary Fund.
_ _ _.2006. Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Staff Report for the 2006 Article IV Consultation
     2006 Article IV Consultation-Staff Report; Public Information Notice on the Executive Board
     Discussion; and Statement by the Executive Director for the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
     IMF Country Report No. 06/334. Washington, DC. International Monetary Fund.
_ _ _ .2005. Slovak Republic: 2004 Article IV Consultation-Staff Report; and Public Information Notice on
      the Executive Board Discussion. IMF Country Report No. 05171. Washington, DC. International
      Monetary Fund.
World Bank. 2008. Public Sector Reform: What Works and Why? An lEG evaluation of World Bank Support.
       Washington, DC. The World Bank.
_ _ _. 2007. Implementation Completion and Results Report (lBRD-71780) on a Loan in the Amount of
     Euro 5.0 Million (US $ 5.45 Million Equivalent) to the Slovak Republic for a Public Finance
     Management Project. Washington, DC. The World Bank.
_ _ _ . 2006. Development Policy Lending Retrospective, Operations Policy and Country Services.
      Washington DC. The World Bank.
_ _ _.2005. Implementation Completion Report (SCL-47340 TF-54252) on a Loan/Credit/Grant in the
     Amount of US $ 30 Million to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, For a Public Sector
     Management Adjustment Loan 2 ( PSMAL2). Report No. 34473 MK. Washington, DC. The World
     Bank.
_ _ _.2004. Implementation Completion Report (TF 24367, TF26287, TF-36280) on a Credit in the Amount
     SDR 12.1 million (US$ 15.0 million equivalent) to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for. a
     Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAC). Report# 29426 .Washington, DC. The World
     Bank.
_ _ _.2003. Country Assistance Strategy for the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Washington,
     DC. The World Bank.
_ _ _.2003. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of Euro 5.0 Million (US 4
     5.45 Million Equivalent) to the Slovak Republic for Public Finance Management Project. Washington,
     DC. World Bank.
_ _ _ " 1998. Joint Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Former Yugoslav Republic
      of Macedonia. Washington, DC. The World Bank.
_ _ _.1998. Public Expenditure Handbook, Washington DC, The World Bank.
