Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2463-BA
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 17, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00  =  Kyat (K) 6.7
K 1.00   =  US$0.149
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)           =  1.273 cubic feet (feet (ft ) true
geometric measure
1 hoppus ton (H ton)         =  50 HF3in round logs or
=  50 ft  of converted lumber, or
= 63.75 ft true geomesric measure, or
=  1.805 cubic meter (m ) roundwood
under bark
1 sawn ton (ST)              =  50 ft  Sr
=  1.416 m  (sawnwood)
1 metric ton (mt)            =  2205 pounds
1 pound (lb)                 =  0.45 kilograms (kg)
1 mile (mi)                  =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square miles (sq mi)       =  2.589 squjare kilometers (sq km)
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 millimeter (mm)            =  0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                  =  1.09 yards (yd)
Fiscal Year - April l/March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -   Asian Development Bank
CC        -   Construction Corporation
CIDA      -   Canadian International Development Agency
CP        -   Cooperative Program (FAO/IBRD)
DCA       -   Director of Commercial Audits
EEC       -   European Economic Commumity
FAO       -   Food and Agricultural Organization of the UN
FD        -   Forest Department
FFS       -   Forest Feasibility Studies
FRI       -   Forest Research Institute
gbh       -   girth breast height (see Glossary, Annex I)
GOB       -   Government of Burma
GOF       -   Govz,,ment of Finland
MAF       -   Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MPF       -   Ministry of Planning and Finance
PSC       -   Project Steering Committee
PU (TC)   -   Project Unit (Extraction and Sawmilling)
PU (FD)   -   Project Unit (Plantations)
TC        -   Timber Corporation
UBB       -   Union of Burma Bank
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Program



BURMA                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE FORESTRY SECTOR  ....................................                           1
A.   Introduction  .......................................                         1
B.   Forest Resources  and Population  ....................                        1
C.   Contribution to the Economy ........................                          2
D.   Markets  and Production Potential  ...................                        3
E.   Forestry  Institutions  ..............................                        4
F.   Forest  Industries  ..................................                        6
G.   External Assistance  to Forestry  ....................                        7
H.   Constraints  to Development  .........................    10
II.    THE PROJECT AREA  .......................................    10
A.   Location,  Resource  and Forestry Production  ....                  .....    10
B.   Topography,  Geology  and Soils  ......................    11
C.   Climate  ..........            ..................................    13
D.   Infrastructure  .....................................    13
E.   Economy  and Industries  .............................    13
III.    THE PROJECT  ..........               ..................................    14
A.   Project Genesis  ....................................    14
B.   Main Features  ......................................    14
C.  Detailed Features  ..................................    16
D.  Cost Estimates  .....................................    24
E.   Financing  ..........................................    24
F.   Procurement  ........................................    25
G.   Disbursements  ......................................    26
H.   Accounts  and Audit  .................................    27
This  repo t  Is based  on the  findings  of a Bank mission which
visited Burma  in NSovember-December  1978,  and which  comprised Messrs.
I.A.  Harvey,  0.  Baykal,  U. Warnemunde,  (Bank),  W. Ellis,  A.  Haspey  and
J. Myllyrinne (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page No.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................           27
A.  Project Implementation .............................    27
B. Consultancy Services, Technical Assistance
and Training ...........                                    30
C.  Forestry Planning, Inventory and Coordination ......           31
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES .........................    32
A.  Production ...                     ....                        32
B.  Markets and Prices .................................    33
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ................     ..     ...................    36
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................................    37
A.  Benefits and Costs .................................    37
B.  Beneficaries .......................................    39
C.  Economic Rate of Return ............................    40
VIII.   PROJECT RISKS ...... ...............         .....................    41
IX.   ASSURANCES RECOMMENDATIONS .............................    42
ANNEXES
1.   Glossary
2.   Supporting Tables
3.   IDA Disbursements Against Local Expenditures for
Teak Plantation Establishment.
4.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File.
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
1.   Land Classification.
2.   Phasing of Project Physical Development Targets.
3.   Summary Cost Estimates.
4.   Financing Plan.
5.   Project Area Timber Production.
6.   Fiscal Implications for GOB.
7.   Summary Financial Status of TC and Forestry I.
8.   PU (TC) Summary Cash Flow.
9.   Sensitivity Analysis.



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. THE FORESTRY SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01      Burma is well endowed with natural resources.  Forests form a major
element of this endowment. Climate and topography have together contributed
both to a rich variety of forest species and to a river system providing
access for timber extraction. Burma's forests have been well preserved by
one of the world's oldest forest departments. Teak and a few other valuable
hardwood species have historically formed the major part of forest output.
A description of Burma's forest resources and a discussion of their develop-
ment potential was included in the Burma Forestry Project No. 774a-BA of 1974
(Forestry I) and is described in detail in the Forest Feasibility Studies
(FFS) of 1977/78 (Annex 4, B2). This section summarizes the more important
points of relevance to the project.
B. Forest Resource and Population
1.02      Burma's population density of 47 per square kilometer and its growth
rate of 2.2% are among the lowest in Asia. Land pressures and land-use con-
flict are relatively light. Adult literacy is about 67% and skilled manpower
is available, particularly in forestry, where there is a strong, well trained,
professional body with substantial overseas experience (Annex 4.CI).
1.03      Burma's forests cover about 96 M acres or 57% of its land area.  Of
this forest area, 24 M acres or 25% are reserved forest. There are about 15 M
acres of teak reserve forest which partially overlap about 16 M acres of non-
teak hardwood 1/ reserve forest. About 35% of Burma's forest resources (15%
of teak standing volume) are currently inaccessible for reasons of topography
or security and large scale forestry operations in these areas are usually not
possible. Taungya, or uncontrolled shifting cultivation, covers about 660,000
acres/year over a six year cycle. Controlled taungya is used successfully for
plantation establishment whereby taungya farmers intercrop, tend and weed the
plantation crop. Of the eight forest types in Burma, deciduous forest is the
1/   In this report, "hardwood" refers to "non-teak hardwood".



- 2 -
most important, with principal species being Teak, In, Kanyin, Pyinkado, Padauk
and other commercial hardwoods 1/. There are extensive bamboo stands in Arakan
and Tennasserim. Plantation establishment in Burma started before 1860, but
although about 220,000 acres of plantations have been established since then,
some of this area was in the form of small "enrichment" areas, which have
since merged back into the natural forest, or have been felled. About 100,000
acres of plantations, of which 50% is teak, have been established in the last
forty years. Planting has increased since 1962, with annual areas of 2,000 acres
teak, 1,000 acres pyinkado and 3,000 acres other species. Since 1969, 20,000
acres of eucalypts have been planted for watershed protection and fuelwood,
mainly in Central Burma. Although data for predicting naturally regenerated
teak yields for the next forty years is adequate, much of the inventory data
on forest stocking are out of date and GOB is considering undertaking a new
forest inventory. Current annual forest output is about 310,000 H tons of teak
and about 375,000 H tons of hardwoods. The present teak Annual Allowable Cut 2/
(AAC) for all Burma is about 400,000 H tons of which 300,000 H tons are from
accessible and secure areas. Based on recommendations in the FFS, girth
limits for teak and hardwoods have been reduced, which will increase yields
substantially during the next cutting cycle. There is also a backlog of
girdled, unfelled teak of about 440,000 H tons in secure areas. The hardwood
AAC is not fully utilized and, at 1.1 M H tons from accessible areas, is well
above the current extraction level. GOB is now embarking on an aggressive
policy of compensatory plantations and the dynamic system of forest management
being created will substantially increase forest yields.
1.04      The geography of Burma is dominated by the Irrawaddy River complex
which drains two-thirds of the country and provides access to many of the
forest areas and which continues to provide cheap, if slow, transport for
rafting teak logs from remote forest areas to Rangoon. Insurgency affects
significant areas of forests. Where insurgency has been controlled, for
example, in the project area, rich natural forests are available for devel-
opment.
C. Contribution to the Economy
1.05      The agricultural sector, including crops, livestock, fisheries and
forestry is the largest in the Burmese economy, contributing 47% of GDP and
employing 67% of the labor force.  Agricultural products, principally rice
and teak, account for about 85% of all exports. Although forestry contributes
less than 2.5% to GDP it provides almost 25% of foreign exchange earnings and
forest products provide an important element of indigenous consumption.  Fuel-
wood provides a high proportion of rural energy consumption, supplying villagers'
basic needs for heating and cooking. Industrial roundwood is used in the
production of sawnwood and wood-based panels. Other forest products, such as
bamboo, provide inputs to the pulp and paper industry. Sawnwood and panel
1/   See Annex 1 for species.
2/   The volume of wood which may be harvested annually from a given area.



- 3 -
products are used in public, residential and commercial construction and
furniture manufacture. Forests also play a significant role in protecting
Burma's watersheds, preventing soil erosion and ensuring a sustained flow of
irrigation and drinking water for farmers and urban dwellers situated down-
stream. The value of forestry production is about US$90 M. Real growth of
forest based income was almost 8% per year during the Second Four Year Plan
(1974/75-1977/78), although measured against a low base year.  Total permanent
employment in forestry operations is about 150,000 of which about 32,000 are
employed directly by Timber Corporation (TC) and 4,500 by Forest Department
(FD). Due to a decline in hardwood extraction, teak and hardwood sawnwood
consumption has declined from 380,000 H tons in 1971/72 to 193,000 H tons in
1977/78. The shortage of sawn hardwood has affected many sectors, particu-
larly construction and railways, and is a principal reason for a large
increase in theft of teak logs by villagers. Despite extensive forests,
Burma's annual consumption of mechanical wood products of 12 m per 1,000
people is low by any standards.
D. Markets and Production Potential
1.06      Teak is valued in export markets for both its decorative and struc-
tural properties. The markets for both are strong. Burma's timber export
increased in value from about Kyats 230 M to almost Kyats 400 M between
1974/75 and 1977/78, despite a decline in volume over the same period from
about 115,000 H tons to about 95,000 H tons, due to substantial increases in
world teak prices. Revenues and volumes for 1978/79 are projected to have
increased further. Because of recent reductions in teak export by other
countries, Burma now has a virtual world monopoly in the high quality teak
trade. Teak veneer log exports are limited only by log quality. About 13%
of current extraction is suitable for log export for veneer production, mainly
to Japan. Teak sawnwood markets are principally Singapore and Hong Kong
where, because of poor sawing quality in Burma, timber is frequently resawn to
customer requirements. In the past, Burma has had a poor marketing reputation
due to failures to meet delivery commitments and to poor commercial and
marketing practices. The market potential for increasing teak sawnwood
volume, quality and prices is good, provided that TC continues its current
efforts to improve sawnwood quality and marketing methods. Export markets
for Burma's hardwoods are less strong principally because of TC's marketing
reputation. However, providing that marketing deficiencies continue to be
overcome, the growing world markets for tropical hardwoods would provide
outlets for Pyinkado, Gurjun and Padauk as logs or sawnwood. Burma's share
of the world tropical hardwood market has never exceeded 0.14%, thus even a
substantial increase in Burma's exports from current levels would not mea-
surably affect world supply or prices. The domestic market is supply con-
strained and is likely to remain so. Wood product imports are insignificant.
Bamboo will continue to take an important role in urban and rural housing,
commercial and industrial facilities and pulp manufacture.



- 4 -
E. Forestry Institutions
1.07      All of Burma's forests and most forest based industries are owned
and controlled by Government. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF)
is primarily responsible for the forestry sector, exercising control through
FD and TC. TC extracts all commercial teak and most hardwood. Little data
are available on private sector hardwood production, but its market share
is small. All teak sawmilling, most hardwood sawmilling, veneer and plywood
manufacturing is owned by TC. Some hardwood "resaw mills" are privately owned
and account for about 20% of hardwood sawing capacity. Pulp and paper produc-
tion plants are owned and operated by Ministry of Industry Two. The FD, founded
in 1856, is the oldest forest service outside Europe, and is responsible for
all aspects of forestry in Burma, other than extraction and sale of timber.
The FD staff of 4,500 is well trained and dedicated. The Forest Research
Institute (FRI) at Yezin has recently been established and its foreign exchange
costs are being financed through UNDP/FAO. FD, which would be responsible for
the plantation component of the project, has already been responsible for a
continuing, successful but relatively small plantation program.
1.08      Timber Corporation (TC).  TC is a wholly state-owned corporate body,
with separate legal entity and perpetual succession.  It has the power to
enter contracts for transaction of its business, the right to sue and the
liability to be sued. It is the successor to the State Timber Board (STB)
which was created in 1950, following nationalization of teak extraction
and sawmilling enterprises. In 1963 hardwood extraction and most hardwood
sawmilling was nationalized and also brought under STB. Effective management
responsibility is carried by the Managing Director and a Management Committee.
Since 1976, TC has been subdivided into 14 operating divisions corresponding
to the administrative divisions of Burma. These operating divisions are
further subdivided into about 35 extraction and 2 rafting agencies. The
Forestry I (IDA financed) and Sagaing (ADB financed) Projects are based on
functionally manageable extraction areas, and enjoy substantial autonomy
within TC. A lengthy period of stagnation and falling production by TC has
been abruptly terminated in recent years by government's realization of TC's
key role in economic growth. As a result, TC's organization has been
struggling to meet more ambitious objectives with an obsolete and essentially
worn out equipment base and in face of serious shortages of operating sup-
plies, parts and equipment, organizational difficulties and security con-
straints. The Forestry Projects were set up as separate entities to ensure
dynamic performance by combining improved management with enhanced equipment
supplies and work procedures. Because of their success in operations and
training, and their place in TC's future structure, Forestry II would also be
a separate and similar entity. TC's organization is expected to evolve over
a period of years, with the TC Organization and Management recommendations of
the FFS as a major input. Forestry I, Forestry II and the Sagaing Projects
will provide trained personnel and operating methods and systems for this
continuing reorganization. TC employs about 32,000 full time personnel of
whom about 600 are professionally qualified, with additional extraction
workers engaged on a contract basis during the extraction season.



-5-
1.09      Although investment in extraction, sawmilling and transportation
equipment in the early 1970's was minimal, TC teak production showed compara-
tively small declines, but at the cost of major reductions in hardwood output.
Equipment shortages were compounded by unsatisfactory management performance
in TC. Operations were highly centralized with little delegation of authority.
Cost control and information systems were ineffective. Discipline was lax,
forward planning was inadequate and export marketing was poor. These dif-
ficulties were recognized by both GOB and TC.  Rather than attempt immediate
change for all TC, development efforts for institutional change, training and
investment were concentrated in the Project Units of Forestry I and Sagaing.
With the active participation of TC management and MAF, these Project Units
are developing packages of workable and effective structures, methods and
systems, which can be adopted by TC.  These Project Units have already had
substantial direct and indirect effects. Teak and hardwood output is
increasing. Export volumes and value have shown substantial increases and
TC's marketing methods are improving. Furthermore, as a result of the new
commercialization policy of GOB, TC's Management Committee now has policy-
making power, TC has to operate within a commercially-oriented financial
system and a bonus scheme has been introduced.  Under the decentralization
policy of GOB, TC's extraction, accounting and marketing and milling activi-
ties are being decentralized to relax central control and encourage decision
making and innovation at the field level. Although there will be a difficult
transition period, these measures are expected to improve TC's productivity
and quality of work. Most significantly, the Forestry II extraction project
was prepared by TC, utilizing some personnel from the Project Units, with
advice from CP, in only four months. Because of the high quality of many of
its staff TC has great potential for development which will be hastened as
TC staff benefit from international experience through in-house and overseas
training and from suitably experienced overseas personnel visiting Burma.
1.10      Despite TC's variable physical performance, it has always been a
financially profitable organization. In fiscal 1976/77 total after-tax earn-
ings were Kyats 58 M (US$8.6 M) on gross revenues of Kyats 540 M (US$81 M),
(11% return on revenues) having risen from after tax earnings of less than
Kyats 1 M on gross revenues of Kyats 340 M in fiscal 1972/73. TC's total
assets were about Kyats 880 M (US$131 M) at the end of fiscal 1976/77. TC's
after-tax return on total net assets rose from 2.9% in 1973/74 to 6.6% in
1976/77. In 1976/77, Forestry I contributed 28% of TC's net earnings and pro-
vided 26% of revenues from 23% of net assets (8% return on net assets). In
1977/78 Forestry I increased its return on net assets to 21% and is expected
to contribute, together with the Sagaing project, to a substantial further
improvement in TC's operating position. The total equity capital of TC was
Kyats 312 M (US$46 M) at the end of fiscal 1976/77 with net total long-term
debt of Kyats 247 M (US$37 M) of which Kyats 161 M (US$24 M) is 20 year gov-
ernment debt stemming from the Working Capital and People's Consolidated Fund
System which ended in 1977/78. TC's debt coverage in 1976/77 was 2.8 with a
debt ratio of about 0.65. TC's capital structure is considered acceptable.
GOB receives substantial contributions from TC operations through import taxes
and duties (of about 50%) on equipment, operating taxes on value-added (rang-
ing from about 30% to 55%) and royalties on teak and hardwood extraction.
Accounting and auditing have been less than satisfactory for TC as a whole,



- 6 -
with two years backlog. Forestry I accounting and auditing, however, is
up-to-date. TC's backlog of accounting is being reduced, and the adoption
of Forestry I financial and cost accounting procedures, when completed and
proven, will bring major improvements.
F. Forest Industries
1.11      Burma's forest products industry has, until recently, been neglected
and, hence, has been unable to maintain its share of national output. It is
old, run down, short of spares, inadequately maintained and has low throughput
and wastefully low conversion rates. It cannot supply the minimal requirements
of the domestic economy nor can it supply adequate quality sawn and manufac-
tured products to the export markets. Rehabilitation and expansion are of
primary importance to make better use of current forest output. Present State
manufacturing facilities include about 200 teak and hardwood saw mills, 3 ply-
wood mills, 1 integrated pulp and paperboard mill, 1 waste-paper paperboard
mill and minor plants such as a small furniture factory. There are also about
400 small, private "resaw" operations which are licensed to re-saw teak and
hardwood to retail sizes. Employment in the industry is about 30,000, of
which over half is widely dispersed in villages and towns other than Rangoon.
With the exception of paper and paperboard, production has declined over the
last 5 years. Particularly serious are sawn teak, sawn hardwood and plywood
production. Current single shift teak milling capacity is 270,000 H tons.
1976 input was 155,000 H tons with an output of 70,000 H tons, the lowest
since 1958/59 and 55% of rated capacity. The current teak recovery rate
of 45% hoppus is low, given the existing log input quality and product mix.
Substantial revenues are now foregone due to poor sawing. The hardwood mills
are mainly small, simple operations of 2,000-10,000 H tons annual input.
Almost all are in very poor condition and ill equipped to utilize effectively
the existing hardwood resource. The sawn product is of poor quality and would
be largely unacceptable in international markets. While most teak sawnwood
is exported, hardwood sawnwood is utilized almost entirely domestically.
Whereas all the principal teak mills are in Rangoon, hardwood production is
widely dispersed with mills generally 10-15% the size of teak mills. Hardwood
sawmilling now runs at substantially less than nominal capacity.  Throughput
in 1975/76 was 350,000 H tons or 60% of nominal capacity, compared with
1972/73 throughput of 580,000 H tons. Recovery, as for teak, is poor at 54%
hoppus. Declining output is due to log shortages, equipment breakdowns, few
spare parts, absenteeism and diesel fuel shortages. Three plywood plants
in Rangoon and Swa manufacture and distribute a small range of urea bonded
plywood panels from sliced and3peeled teak or hardwood veneers.  Althou g
nominal capacity ii 450,000 ft actual output has fallen from 390,000 ft in
1972 to 300,000 ft in 1976. Recovery rates average an extremely low 26%.
The secondary mechanical wood products industry is not highly developed and
although these activities provide an essential service to the domestic market,
only minimal volumes are exported.



- 7 -
G. External Assistance to Forestry
1.12      Forestry I.  The Burma Forestry Project, Credit 493-BA for US$24 M
was approved in 1974 (Map 1). The project covers five extraction agencies
centered in Prome, in an area 400 miles long and 75 miles wide and including
about 5 M acres of teak and hardwood forest. Principal project components are:
(a) Roads - Construction and maintenance of access feeder roads;
(b) Logging - equipment for logging, spares for rehabilitation of
existing equipment;
(c) Transport - loading equipment, logging trucks, towing launches
for river log rafts and spares for existing equipment;
(d) Administration - project headquarters buildings, stores and
workshops, supervision vehicles, workshop and office equipment;
(e) Sawmills - rehabilitation of selected sawmills;
(f) Technical Assistance - training overseas of key TC personnel
and provision of specialists in workshops, extraction, roads,
management accounting and sawmilling; and
(g) Feasibility Studies - to study future development projects in
the forestry sector.
1.13      The project started slowly due to delays and difficulties in recruit-
ing consultants and to organizational constraints. The project reached its
projected annual teak output of 100,000 H tons in 1976/77 but has reached only
35% of projected hardwood output of 72,000 H tons (1977/78). Despite the
hardwood shortfall, project revenues are about 25% greater than projected
at appraisal, due to substantial increases in the world price of teak and
average production costs which are equal to or less than those projected at
appraisal. Although returns from the project are very high, there have been
substantial problems during implementation which have prevented returns from
being yet higher. These problems have included shortages of spare parts and
diesel fuel, slow procurement, inadequate maintenance and management account-
ing and insufficient forward planning. The shortfall in hardwood output stems
principally from procurement problems for new logging trucks which have only
recently been resolved, but also from a natural concentration on high value
teak extraction whenever difficulties limited total extraction capacity. The
project status is now good. GOB has taken action to solve shortages of spare
parts and diesel fuel, project planning has improved because TC and IDA have
more fully understood the complexities of mixed animal/mechanical extraction
of teak, maintenance and forward planning are being improved. The Project
Unit has strong support from MAF and TC. Logging trucks will arrive in mid
1979. Rehabilitation of sawmills is almost complete and IDA is, in addition,
financing a small new hardwood sawmill which would be a model for the proposed
new mills in Forestry II. Project disbursements under the Credit as of
April 30, 1979 were US$11.5 M or 55% of appraisal estimate. With the arrival



-8-
of equipment now on order, disbursements are expected to reach 80% of appraisal
estimates by September 1979. The bulk of the Credit is expected to be dis-
bursed by the project closing date of March 31, 1981. The financial position
of Forestry I is satisfactory. With gross revenues of Kyats 190 M (US$28 M)
and total assets of Kyats 260 M (US$39 M), in 1977/78 it had a return on total
assets of 21%, a debt ratio of 48%, a current ratio of 3.9 and debt coverage
of about 6 times.
1.14      Many lessons have been learned from Forestry I.  Communications
were difficult, due to the size of the area (which was also split by the
Irrawaddy) and poor telephone communications leading to inefficient control
of machinery operations. As a consequence, Forestry II would be much more
compact, would lie in one area served by road and rail and would have a com-
prehensive internal radio network. The use of logging equipment in Forestry I
is not yet fully developed, and Forestry II would provide further assistance
for planning, operator training and surveying so that techniques appropriate
to the unique problems of Burma may be developed further.  Technical assist-
ance would be provided by a firm, to avoid the difficulties of identifying
available experts with sound, recent commercial experience. Specifications
for major equipment groups have been finalized to avoid delays in the procure-
ment approval process. The problems experienced in Forestry I are expected
not to appear in Forestry II due to improved project design and GOB actions
taken as a result of experience in Forestry I. Significantly, TC and FD were
capable, with assistance and advice from CP, of themselves preparing the
Forestry II project.
1.15      Forest Feasibility Studies (FFS).  The FFS were a component of
Forestry I.  The principal objective was to prepare a program for the system-
atic development of Burma's forest-based industries, matched with the resource
potential. The FFS were implemented in three phases:
(a)  Phase 1:  overseas training for Burmese counterparts;
(b)  Phase 2:  evaluation of forest resource, present and future
markets and selection of projects for detailed study;
(c)  Phase 3:  detailed studies for:  (i) teak extraction, (ii)
organization and management of TC, (iii) mechanical wood
using industries; and (iv) pulp and paper industries.
The FFS were satisfactorily completed in October 1978 and provide detailed
development recommendations and feasibility studies (Annex 4 B.2). Key
constraints and objectives identified are included in para 1.19. Detailed
feasibility studies were completed for a timber extraction project in the
East Pegu Yoma, a hardwood sawmill in Mandalay and an export teak veneer
mill in Rangoon. Principal FFS recommendations are summarized below:
(a) Forest Resource: Early implementation of a forest inventory,
linked with land use/land capability study; reduction in teak
girth limit and felling cycle; conversion of forest management



-9-
from selection to uniform system following intensive trials;
a substantial increase in plantation establishment; improved
integration of FD and TC operations; and strengthening of FD.
(b) Extraction. Limiting teak AAC to 300,000 H tons and hard-
wood AAC to 780,000 H tons unless supplemental plantations
be established; increased mechanization and trucking; simul-
taneous extraction of teak and hardwoods; increased all-
weather roads; major expansion of radio network; and
improved repair, maintenance and spares systems.
(c) Industrial Development. Rationalize and rehabilitate teak
mills including Okkyin mill; to supply domestic market
requirements, increase hardwood sawing capacity by 500,000
H tons through rehabilitation and new construction; con-
tinue regional development based on "project areas"; review
hardwood pricing policy; rehabilitate plymills 2 and 3;
maintain teak log exports and initiate a teak export
veneer mill; improve export marketing; improve knowledge of
the domestic market; implement a prefeasibility study for
a bleached kraft bamboo pulp mill in Arakan and formulate
a national plan for pulp and paper.
(d) Timber Corporation. Continue a single corporation, decen-
tralized with four regional and one product division based
on existing and proposed project units; maximum authority
and responsibility delegated to divisions; integrate and
coordinate industry and sectoral planning.
1.16      Some of these recommendations have already been implemented, and
the reduction in girth limit has already enabled TC to increase its permissi-
ble extraction volumes for the next cutting cycle. Many of the recommenda-
tions would be implemented in the proposed Forestry II project.  Others are
under active consideration by GOB.
1.17      The ADB financed forestry project in Sagaing (near Mandalay) is
similar to Forestry I (Map 1). Full production is projected to be about
88,000 H tons of teak and 215,000 H tons of hardwood annually. The loan of
US$25.1 M, made in March 1977, was to finance construction and upgrading of
forest roads, investment in logging equipment, sawmill modernization, over-
seas training and technical assistance, and assistance to FD. Project equip-
ment has recently arrived and 1979/80 will be the first complete production
year. Equipment procurement has proceeded smoothly due to TC's increasing
experience in procurement but there have been continuing delays in the hiring
of foreign consultants. FAO/UNDP is financing foreign exchange costs for the
development of FRI at Yezin. CIDA is financing the development of TC's base
workshop at Pyinmana, including rehabilitation of Canadian manufactured
logging equipment.
1.18.     GOB has also requested assistance for a Forestry III (Forest Indus-
tries) project and for a Fuelwood Supply Plantation Project. These projects
are under preparation.



- 10 -
H. Constraints to Development
1.19      Key sectoral constraints identified in the FFS and through Bank
operations in Burma include: (i) Extraction - inadequate investment in new
equipment and insufficient maintenance of existing equipment so that the
available resource is not utilized optimally, (ii) Processing - insufficient
investment in primary processing causing inefficient utilization of present
forest output and (iii) Planning - insufficient knowledge of the resource
for comprehensive long term planning. Principal sectoral objectives are:
(i) to maximize teak log export revenues in the near term, (ii) to satisfy
the domestic market for sawn hardwoods, and (iii) to develop a strategy to
maximize long term economic returns from the forest resource. GOB's policies
will meet these objectives through: (i) investment in roadmaking, extraction
and transport equipment to reduce log losses in transit and to increase timber
extraction volumes, (ii) improving sawing quality and conversion rates of
sawmills, plywood mills and veneer mills through rehabilitation and new invest-
ment, (iii) improved marketing by TC to increase total revenues, (iv) improving
equipment maintenance, (v) increasing resource availability by improved forest
management/silvicultural research and by augmenting supplies of teak and other
hardwoods through increased plantation establishment and (vi) intensified
planning and coordination of forestry activities by GOB.
II. PROJECT AREA
A. Location, Resource and Forestry Production
2.01      The project area covers almost the entire eastern slope of the Pegu
Yoma range, forming a north-south rectangle 50 miles wide and 280 miles long
(Map 2).  Of these 14,000 square miles, about 6,500 square miles (4 M acres),
are productive forest. The area contains six of Burma's 36 Forest Divisions 1/,
20% of Burma's teak bearing reserve forest area and teak standing volume, 2/
17% of the hardwood reserve forest area and 21% of merchantable hardwood stand-
ing volume. 2/ The rugged terrain of the East Pegu Yoma contains some of the
finest quality teak and other valuable hardwood species in Burma. From 1974
to 1977 annual teak log production from the project area increased from
50,000 H tons to 67,000 H tons but annual hardwood log production declined
from 135,000 H tons to 81,000 H tons. The hardwood sawmilling industry in the
area also declined, not only from the reduction in log input, but also because
equipment is old and unreliable.
2.02      The teak AAC for the reserve forest in the project area is 147,000 H
tons for the next twenty year cutting cycle. This AAC includes the extraction
of the teak backlog and "excess working stock" created by the reduction from
1/   North and South Pyinmana, North and South Toungoo, North and South Pegu.
2/   Volume over 4 foot gbh.



- 11 -
7'6" to 6'6'" gbh.  In the subsequent cycles the AAC in perpetuity provided
by natural regeneration annual increment would revert to about 60,000 H tons.
About half the forest area has never been felled for hardwoods. The growing
stock in these project areas comprises mature and over-mature stock, with
per acre yields substantially higher than other previously logged areas.
Approximately 70% of the hardwood growing stock in the project area comprises
currently merchantable species.  In the project, teak and hardwoods would be
extracted simultaneously and annual hardwood production would be limited to
290,000 H tons. This level of extraction could be maintained for a cutting
cycle of about 30 years for currently merchantable species. In the second and
subsequent cycles, other circumstances remaining equal, the hardwood AAC in
perpetuity would revert to about 150,000 H tons.  It is expected that, by
then, species utilization would have improved and that, more significantly,
production from the manmade forests in the East Pegu Yoma will more than
compensate for a reduction in natural regeneration yield (Annex 3.C1).
2.03      Plantation forestry in the project area is well established, mainly
in scattered stands or "enrichment plantations" throughout the area. About
40,000 acres, which is about 20% of total national plantation area, have been
established in the project area. Of this about 75% is teak and 10% eucalypts.
Plantation establishment in the past was not consistent, partly because of
interruptions due to war and insurrection, with particularly severe effects
on the small scattered plantations on tending, thinning and protection. In the
last ten years, taungya plantation establishment has been implemented in larger
blocks of up to 5,000 acres and, although inexpensive and simple, has been
extremely successful in the project area and in the Forestry I project area.
Growth characteristics of plantation teak in the project area are excellent
with ideal climatic and soil conditions.
2.04      Demand for industrial sawnwood from the project area is increasing
because of its proximity to both Mandalay and Rangoon and because it is close
to Rangoon port for export of logs and sawnwood. The area contains important
conversion facilities and is of sufficient size to support a large scale mecha-
nical extraction and sawmilling operation. It is sufficiently compact to
allow good communications and control of extraction operations. Selection of
the project area as an operating area fits with GOB's policy of decentralizing
TC and creating operationally autonomous and accountable operating divisions.
B. Topography, Geology and Soils
2.05      Topography of the forest areas varies between gently undulating
hills close to the plain and broken, rugged, steep, short slopes with many
small streams and rivers, in the remote areas close to the Pegu Yoma water-
shed. The main parent materials are soft tertiary sandstones and clay shales.
Solid rock and laterite exist in scattered areas.  The area extending from the
Sittang River to the Pegu Yoma foothills is flat and is under cultivation
principally for rice and sugar cane. Soils in the plain are sand and sandy
loam with some heavier clay soils in poorly drained depressions. Generally,
the main drainage patterns flow east from the Pegu Yoma ridge to the Sittang



- 12 -
River. The exception is in the Pegu area where the main drainage flow is
northwest to southeast. Altitudes range from approximately 400 ft in Toungoo
Township to 2,000 ft on the remote higher ridges of the Pegu Yomas. In the
hills, soils are generally sandy loam with limited pockets of clay or laterite.
Earth roads become excessively dusty in the dry season and, if unimproved,
become impassable to wheeled traffic in the rainy season. A shortage of
suitable road surfacing materials makes the construction of all weather roads
difficult and expensive. For logging and road construction purposes the
project area may be divided into three distinct classes of topography which
run roughly parallel to the Sittang River in a north/south direction. These
classes of topography are:
(a)  Class I (Steep) - areas with slopes greater than 22  1/
or so remote as to be beyond present economic or practical
roading access within the next five years;
(b)  Class II (Moderate to steep) - areas with slopes from 120
to 220 with limited areas in excess of 22  such as bluffs
or steep side slopes in the lower reaches of the catchments;
and
(c) Class III (Easy) - all the areas which are less than 120.
Areas included in each category are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: LAND CLASSIFICATION
('000 acres)
Class I          Class II          Class III           Total
Steep Slopes      Moderate to           Easy              Forest
in Excess of      Steep Slopes      Slopes Below          Area in
Agency          220            120 to 220            120            '000 Acres
Area      X      Area        %      Area        %       Area        %
N. Pyinmana       0        0     349        70       150       30        499       100
S. Pyinmana       0        0     286        50       287       50        573       100
N. Toungoo      244       40     367        60         0        0        611       100
S. Toungoo      600       50     601        50         0        0      1,201       100
N. Pegu         276       50     276        50         0        0        552       100
S. Pegu         210      40      316        60         0        0        527       100
Total   1,330       34   2,195        55       437        41     3,963       100
Elephants are highly effective in rugged terrain inaccessible to machines and
the project has been designed so that elephant extraction for teak is confined
to the Class I (remote or steep) areas with the balance of elephants being used
1/   Gradients based on ability of earth moving, logging and transport equip-
ment to negotiate slopes.



- 13 -
in conjunction with machine extraction in the Class II areas. Many Class III
(easy) areas have been logged for teak in the recent past and mechanical or
elephant and mechanical logging would be confined principally to the Class II
(moderate to steep) areas.
C. Climate
2.06      The climate of the project area is monsoonal with two distinct sea-
sons. The dry season extends from November to April with little or no rain-
fall (Annex 2, Table 1). The rainy season begins in the middle of May and
lasts until the end of October. Rainfall is intermittent in September/October
and some logging and road construction activity could take place although it
is not present practice to do so.  Annual average rainfall varies from 140
inches in Pegu to 60 inches in Pyinmana.  Day time temperatures can reach 30°-
400C particularly towards the end of the dry season. Night time temperatures
can go as low as 100 C during January and February.
D. Infrastructure
2.07      Transportation in the project area is reasonably good in a north/
south direction. A two lane tarred road from Rangoon to Mandalay runs through
the plain adjacent to the Sittang river. East/west access is poor with only
one all weather road crossing the Pegu Yoma range from Toungoo to Prome, in
the Forestry I area. A multi-lane road from Rangoon to Mandalay is in the
early planning and construction stages and would cross much of the rich and
presently inaccessible forest. This road is expected to be completed after
the project and has not been considered in project planning for the next five
years. The Pegu river provides access to South Pegu Agency during the rainy
season. The Sittang river is navigable to small craft during the rainy season,
and is used for rafting dry teak from Toungoo and Pegu to Rangoon via the Pegu
canal. The north/south Rangoon Mandalay railroad runs parallel with the road,
providing transport for both logs and sawnwood to either Rangoon or Mandalay.
A single track railroad provides the only access through the main valley of
South Pyinmana to the forest extraction areas and sawmills. North Pyinmana,
North Pegu and South Pegu extraction agencies have road or rail access only
up to the boundary of the forest.
E. Economy and Industries
2.08      The population of the project area is about 2.5 million of which
10% live in the main urban areas of Pegu, Toungoo, Yadeshi, Lewe and Pyinmana.
Villages are located both along the main road and adjacent to the foothills
of the Pegu Yomas. The forest areas are sparsely inhabited, principally
because they were cleared of population during insurgency in the early 1970's.



- i4 -
The area is now secure and some resettlement would take place at plan,2ation
centers in the project.  Pegu is a center of local government.  The area has
high voltage grid supply which is reasonably reliable.
2.09      In 1977/78, the total value of industrial timber extracted from
the project area (about 67,000 H tons of teak and 81,000 H tons of hardwoods)
was estimated to be about US$26 M, compared with Burma's total production
of US$90 M. The sawmilling industry in the project area comprises 16 State
owned mills and 14 private or hire mills, all of which saw timber extracted
by TC. Few can operate at full capacity because of poor design and high
levels of downtime due to mechanical failures, lack of spares and inadequate
log supply. All the hardwood mills have circular saws. A few very small
private and cooperative mills are permitted to saw reject teak and hardwood
logs for local consumption. Recovery percentages are low (about 40%) and the
quality of sawing is uneven. Further deterioration of sawnwood occurs from
poor stacking and inadequate protection. A plywood mill at Swa has a nominal
annual capacity of 100,000 sheets of plywood/veneer. This mill is well designed
and managed but requires upgrading and replacement of some equipment. A 45
tons/day pulp and paper mill at Sittang produces all of Burma's virgin pulp
from bamboo furnish. A new pulp and paper plant is under construction at Yeni
and further expansion is proposed at that site, using hardwood tops and lops,
bamboo and bagasse as furnish. Forest industries provide employment to an
estimated 10,000 people in the project area.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Genesis
3.01      The FFS made overall recommendations for priority investments in
Burma (para 1.15 et seq). Included was a feasibility study for timber
extraction in the East Pegu Yoma. The detailed project proposal was pre-
pared by GOB between May and September 1978, with assistance from CP during
August 1978. The Project Preparation Committee, principally TC and FD staff,
drew extensively on experience in Forestry I, the Sagaing Project and FFS, and
presented a Preparation Report to IDA in October 1978. The Preparation Report
was considered a sound basis for a project, and an IDA appraisal team visited
Burma during November and December 1978.
B. Main Features
3.02      The project would cover a five year period from 1979 to 1984 and
would be the first phase of forestry and forest industry development in the
East Pegu Yoma. Principal project objectives would be:
(a) to increase teak and hardwood export revenues;



- 15 -
(b) to increase the supply of sawn hardwood to the domestic
market;
(c) to augment teak supplies through compensatory plantations;
and
(d) to select suitable fast growing species and to establish
land clearing techniques for future large scale planta-
tion establishment of fast growing species.
These objectives would be met through the following major activities:
(a) setting up project units in the project area for extrac-
tion and sawmilling, PU(TC), and for plantations, PU(FD);
(b) investment in new, and rehabilitation of existing extrac-
tion equipment which would increase annual extraction
capacity by about 290,000 H tons and reduce teak log
losses;
(c) investment in road construction to improve access to
currently inaccessible or poorly accessed forest areas;
(d) upgrading mechanical maintenance capacity in the project
area;
(e) investment in the rehabilitation of existing hardwood saw-
mills and the construction of new hardwood sawmills in the
project area which would increase existing annual capacity
by about 21,000 H tons, add 24,000 H tons of new single
shift annual capacity and reduce timber wastage by improved
equipment and sawing techniques;
(f)   investment in the rehabilitation of Okkyin teak sawmill
in Rangoon, provision of minor spares to other teak saw-
mills to provide teak sawmilling capacity to meet increased
project output and provision for minor equipment to TC
Milling and Marketing Department;
(g) investment in 29,500 acres of teak plantations;
(h) investment in about 6,000 acres of large scale trial plan-
tations for selection of appropriate fast growing species
and the development of land clearing techniques;
(i) upgrading of timber wagons and locomotives on the
Taungdwingyi-Rangoon rail line to provide adequate
unit-train timber transport capacity to Rangoon; and
(j) technical assistance for extraction, sawmilling and
plantations.



- 16 -
C. Detailed Features
3-03      A --mmary of project output and physical development targets is
giv"-, in Tabi -. A detailed description of project components follows.
Timber Corporation
3.04      Extraction 'nnex 4.C2).  The annual output of the project at full
development would be about 423,000 H tons of timber. Of this, about 45,000 H
tons would be dry I/ teak extracted by elephant, thence floated down streams.
The remaining 88,000 H tons of teak and 290,000 H tons of hardwood would be
extracted by elephant/mechanical or mechanical teams in blocks of compart-
ments 2/ grouped for simultaneous extraction of teak and hardwoods and economy
of road construction. The project would log annually about 140,000 acres or
23,000 acres per extraction agency. Three methods of timber extraction would
be employed in the project: (a) elephant/float, (b) elephant/mechanical, and
(c) mechanical.
(a) Elephant/float. About 230 elephants would be used to extract
dry, girdled teak in the Class I (steep and remote) areas.
The teak would be floated down streams and then railed,
trucked or rafted to Rangoon.
(b) Elephant/mechanical. About 580 elephants working in 29 units
would bc used in Class II (moderate to steep areas) where
road access may be gained along stream beds, to extract
annually about 215,000 H tons of teak and hardwoods. These
elephants would be supported by 29 140 HP bulldozers, and
116 self-loading 6.5 m ton lorries and 15 front-end loaders.
Elephant/mechanical teams would move logs mainly downhill
to roads built along the stream beds. The bulldozers would
construct feeder roads along stream beds and valley floors,
prepare stream crossings and assist elephants with any uphill
hauling. Because elephants cannot be used in concentrations
greater than twenty per compartment the operational density
of elephant/mechanical units would be limited to one unit
per compartment.
(c) Mechanical. About 28 mechanical teams would extract annually
about 165,000 H tons of teak and hardwood from those Class II
areas in which there are "barriers to access" in the valley
or stream beds such as waterfalls or rocky gorges. These
units would be modelled on the standard bh lidozer/skidder
com. .- ic    bad extensively ±n other Sou-.h -'sia dipterocarp
1/   Teak which has been ring barked and dried on the stump to reduce density
and promote uniform drying.
2/   Compartment - a logging/forestry area defined by a watershed and
usually about 1 square mile.



- 17 -
Table 2: PHASING OF PROJECT PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT TARGETS
Agency
Operation                 Unit  1979/80 1980/81 1981/1982 1982/1983 1983/84 Total
TC Production
Teak logs               H tons    60       100       132.5    132.5    132.5   558
Hardwood logs           H tons    70       122       200       290       290     972
Hardwood sawnwood       H tons    35        60        68        91       105      360
Road construction
and maintenance
AW road construction   miles         -       30        30        30        30      120
ELS road construction  miles         -       60        60        60        60      240
AW/ELS maintenance       miles       -      400       400       400       400   1,600
Feeder roads             miles       -        annual program prepared during 1,900
implementation
Construction and
Rehabilitation
Rehabilitate hard-
wood mills             units       -        8         8        -        -         16
Construction hard-
wood mills             units       -        -         2        -         -         2
Rehabilitate teak
mill                   units       -        1         -        -         -         1
New workshops and
improvements
and stores            sites        3        4         -       -         -         7
Administration
building and
housing                sites        1        -         -        -         -         1
Equipment rehabil-
itation                units        -       167        -       -         -       167
FD Plantations
Teak
- land prepar-
aration           acres    3,200   3,900        5,650   7,050       8,000   27,800
- planting             acres    1,700   3,200        3,900   5,650       7,050   29,500 1/
Fast growing
species trial
- land preparation   acres        900    1,000       1,400   1,400       1,400    6,100
- planting                         -        900      1,000   1,400       1,400    5,200
Plantation centers   sites         10        -           5        2          1        18
Road construction    miles         -         39         46       54         52       191
TC/
BRC Railways
Rehabilitation
- timber wagons  units        -        150         20       20          -       190
- locotives       units       -          4           -        1         -         5
1/   Including 8,000 acres prepared in 1983/84 and planted early in 1984/85.



- 18 -
forests with terrain similar to Burma's. The mechanical
units would comprise about 56 140 HP bulldozers, 28 skidders
and 14 loaders. Bulldozers would create access for skidders
either along ridge tops or by side cutting along slopes
and would winch or skid logs to points from Mnich skidders
could operate safely and rapidly. Skidders would undertake
longer forwarding hauls to roadside. Extraction areas for
these units would be surveyed and skid trails prepared at
least one year prior to extraction to achieve operational
efficiency. Short distance log transport within the active
extraction areas would be by skidder.
3.05      Elephants working singly, supported by buffalo, produce about 100
to 200 H tons of logs annually.  In the project, the productivity of elephants
supported by mechanical teams and buffalo would increase to about 375 H tons
annually. Although buffalo are currently used in extraction operations, their
usefulness would decline as extraction moves into more rugged terrain. The
number of working elephants in the project area, owned by TC or contractors,
would be increased to about 810 prior to the 1981/82 extraction season, by
moving elephants from areas where the opportunities for productive use are
not as good (para 4.07). Without mechanical support, especially trucking,
insufficient stream floating capacity in the East Pegu Yoma would limit use
of this increased number of elephants.
3.06      The 6.5 m ton lorries are locally assembled and conversion of 58
lorries to self-load, by adding a simple self-loading mechanism and power take
off operated winch, would be completed by October 31, 1980, with the remaining
58 completed by October 31, 1981 (para 4.07). Transport from the extraction
areas to main road head, saw mill or rail head would be by 15 m ton trucks
which would also be required for moving logging bulldozers during the extrac-
tion season. Logging equipment would be ordered at one time, but delivered in
two batches about one year apart, to allow the build-up of logging work force,
trained personnel, mechanical maintenance facilities and initial road penetra-
tion in the virgin forest areas of North Pegu and South Pegu. A description
of these logging systems and typical costs is in Annex 2, Table 2. The
proposed extraction program is in Annex 2, Table 3. A radio system (Annex
4.C3) would be installed in the project area to control logging operations,
to enable management to utilize transport effectively, to direct mechanical
support services to plant items requiring maintenance, to control the logis-
tics of fuel supply and distribution and to communicate with the plantation
project. MAF would ensure that frequencies had been allocated to TC by
September 30, 1979 (para 4.07).
3.07      Road Construction (Annex 4.C4).  PU(TC) would have two road con-
struction units (Annex 2, Table 4) which would construct about 120 miles of
All Weather (AW) roads, and about 240 miles of Extended Logging Season (ELS)
roads. These road units would comprise in total, 2 200 HP bulldozers, 4 140
HP bulldozers, 8 6x4 graders, 2 front-end loaders and 20 15 m ton dump trucks.
Previous mechanical logging operations in Burma have used only two road
classes, AW roads and feeder roads. The purpose of ELS roads would be to



- 19 -
enable Road Units to construct greater mileages of intermediate, cheaper roads
annually. ELS roads would increase access road availability from 120 days to
150 days per year so that mechanical extraction could similarly increase to
150 days per year. This would raise equipment utilization levels closer to
those obtained in other countries with similar terrain and climatic conditions.
Road specifications and typical costs are in Annex 2, Table 5. North and
South Pegu now have no reasonable road access and one full road construction
year would be necessary before sufficient road penetration would enable
mechanical logging operations (road construction program, Annex 2, Table 6).
PU(TC) would build and maintain all forest roads required for timber extrac-
tion. Construction Corporation (CC), which is responsible for maintenance
of the main highway system would, as requested by TC, transfer maintenance
responsibility for those public roads which were deteriorating due to being
heavily trafficked by logging vehicles, to PU(TC) for a specified period.
The principal road concerned is the Oktwin-Prome road east of the Pegu Yoma
watershed. Agreement was reached with GOB that an agreement between TC and
CC would specify terms and conditions for such a transfer including the
condition in which roads were to be returned, the period for which PU(TC) was
to maintain the road and the conditions under which TC or CC could request
the road be returned to CC (para 9.02(a)). CC would maintain responsibility
for the Rangoon-Mandalay highway, and would maintain specific sections at
TC's request. The road units would also: (i) construct rail loading areas
at Minbyin, Thitpokpin, Pyudwin, Pyinmana and Thagaya; (ii) upgrade sawmill
log yards; and (iii) prepare sites for construction of new sawmills.
3.08      Equipment Rehabilitation (Annex 4.C5).  Major rehabilitation of
existing equipment would be restricted to about 170 units which would have
remaining lives of at least five years and would be economically repairable
(Annex 2, Table 7). The CIDA-financed TC workshop at Pyinmana is currently
repairing logging trucks and skidders which belong to the project. These
latter repairs would be completed and equipment transferred to PU(TC) by
October 31, 1980 (para 4.07).
3.09      Workshops and Mechanical Maintenance (Annex 4.C6).  Mechanical
maintenance would be of fundamental importance to the mechanized logging and
road construction operation. The mechanical maintenance department of PU(TC)
would be strengthened to provide rapid and effective mechanical support.
Additional workshop equipment, mobile service centers, inspection vehicles
and recovery vehicles would be provided for the six agency workshops and the
static workshop at Swa.  New workshops and stores would be built in South
Toungoo and South Pegu; a stores extension would be built at Swa and workshop
improvements carried out in North Pyinmana, North Toungoo and North Pegu.
Training would be given to workshop staff in the areas of workshop management
and supervision.  For the purchase of emergency spare parts for PU(TC) a GOB
revolving fund and supply arrangements by equipment manufacturers, which have
been used in Forestry I, would be repeated in Forestry II.
3.10      Hardwood Sawmill Rehabilitation (Annex 4.C7).  The project would
provide equipment to rehabilitate 16 State sawmills and provide spare parts,
for resale by TC, to 14 private or "hire" sawmills operating under contract



- 20 -
to TC.  Capacity of the State sawmills would increase by 39,000 H tons input
or 21,000 H tons output. The majority of the State hardwood sawmills are of
a type and condition that do not justify major rehabilitation, and the reha-
bilitation in the project would be a holding operation to prolong their use-
ful life until the project has established the first stage of modern bandsaw
milling. Overseas training for TC sawdoctor instructors would be provided
(para 4.08). These instructors would then conduct sawdoctor training through-
out the project area and elsewhere in TC.
3.11      New Hardwood Sawmills (Annex 4.C7).  Additional sawing capacity
would be required by 1982 in North Pegu and South Pegu. The project would
construct two sawmills, each of nominal annual single shift log input capa-
city of 12,000 H tons. The mills would be located outside the forest area
at Payagalay and Kyungon close to power, transportation, and existing labor
sources. As staff gain operational experience, annual production would be
increased from 12,000 H tons single shift to 24,000 H tons double shift. The
sawmill building, machinery layout and area of the site have been planned for
future expansion and the later addition of drying kilns, drying areas, kiln
dried lumber storage and a moulding mill. Mill design would allow teak sawing
with only minor equipment changes. Sawing would be to finer tolerances and
yield would increase from the present 54% to about 58%. The hardwood sawing
program is in Annex 2, Table 8. Annual single shift mill capacity could be
increased in the future from 12,000 to 20,000 H tons by the addition of
minimal handling and sawing equipment.
3.12      Okkyin Teak Mill Rehabilitation (Annex 4.C7).  The Okkyin teak saw-
mill in Rangoon was commissioned in 1972. The design annual two-shift input
was 150,000 H tons but because of design inadequacies and poor operation,
current annual input is only about 20,000 H tons. In the project TC, with the
assistance of the sawmill engineer provided under the project, would carry out
a detailed work study and would redesign bottleneck areas in the mill. The
project would provide sawing and materials handling equipment to rehabilitate
the mill. The mill main building would be partially rebuilt, new timber stor-
age sheds and site roads constructed and the saw and machine shops extended.
Annual two shift input would increase to about 100,000 H tons. The rehabili-
tation work has not been appraised in detail but preliminary estimates, based
on TC proposals, indicate that rehabilitation of the log input system from the
river, resaw operations, materials handling equipment and power supply improve-
ment would remove existing bottlenecks. Disbursement for this component would
be contingent upon the technical approval of detailed rehabilitation plans by
the sawmill engineer (para. 3.26). Following reconstruction, the sawmilll
engineer would assist TC in Okkyin mill operations. The Project would also
provide minor spare parts to teak sawmills number 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 10 and 14 in
Rangoon. A summary of teak sawmilling capacity is in Annex 2, Table 9.
3.13      Administration, Planning and Marketing.  PU(TC) would construct
new and extend existing headquarters buildings in Toungoo and would provide
housing for technical assistance personnel. Office equipment, inspection
and other administration vehicles would be provided to PU(TC).



- 21 -
3.14      Map making, surveying and detailed planning for forest extraction
areas would take place one to two years in advance of operations. Overall
planning would be on a five year rolling basis. Aerial photograph negatives
of the project area, which were made between 1971/72 and 1973/74 and which are
adequate for planning purposes, would be made fully available for copying by
PU(TC). During implementation they would be transferred by aerial photo-
interpretation techniques into large-scale operating maps of extraction and
plantation areas. Survey and photointerpretation equipment and materials
would be provided.  Overseas training in techniques of aerial photointer-
pretation, mapscribing and surveying for the new logging methods would be
provided (para 4.08).
3.15      The export section of the Marketing and Milling Department, TC,
Rangoon, would be provided with office equipment, inspection vehicles, a mark-
eting library and other equipment to assist its export marketing efforts.
Forest Department
3.16      Plantations (Annex 4.C8).  The project would establish about 36,000
acres of plantations in a period slightly over five years. The principal
species would be teak (29,500 acres), which has a well established technology
(taungya cultivation) for plantation establishment (paras 1.03 and 2.03).  The
project's plantation teak planting program at full development would produce
about 450,000 H tons of teak annually at maturity, which is greater than the
present teak AAC from the whole of Burma's Reserve Forest Area. Teak planta-
tions would be distributed among the six forest divisions. Large scale planta-
tion trials (6,100 acres) would select suitable fast growing species for the
future establishment of commercial scale industrial plantations in the project
area. The trials would also develop suitable mechanized plantation establish-
ment methods for future use when taungya labor is insufficient. Trial planta-
tions would be located at the two extremes of the project area, South Pegu and
Yamethin (North Pyinmana), areas of high and low rainfall respectively. The
project would employ taungya cultivation methods for teak plantation establish-
ment and for part of the large-scale trials. This labor intensive method is
currently used, is successful and is silviculturally, socially, financially
and economically superior to mechanized operations when labor is available.
Taungya labor would be provided by landless people whose occupation would
otherwise cause the destruction of high value timber through uncontrolled,
shifting cultivation in the reserve forest. Activities and typical costs are
in Annex 2, Table 10. Both taungya and mechanized methods would be used for
trial plantation establishment. At full development 18 plantation centers
would have been established, each with an annual planting program of about
500 acres. The planting program is in Annex 2, Table 11.
3.17      PU(FD) would be provided with 4 140 HP crawler tractors, 6 80 HP
crawler tractors, 5 85 HP graders, 5 dump trucks, 1 bucket loader and 14
rotary slashers for mechanized land clearing.  Taungya plantation develop-
ment would be provided with 18 65 HP wheeled tractors, trailers and water
bowsers and 18 6.5 m ton trucks. Administration vehicles, office equipment
and minor workshop equipment would be provided. New offices and residential



- 22 -
buildings would be constructed to accommodate staff. Buildings constructed at
plantation centers would be mainly temporary. Each center, in addition to an
office and operational buildings, would include a shrine, school, dispensary,
common room, and potable water supply. Taungya villagers would build their
own temporary houses, assisted by PU(FD) in the transport of building mate-
rials such as bamboo poles and thatching materials. PU(FD) would have a small
workshop to carry out routine maintenance amd minor repairs on PU(FD) project
equipment. Technical assistance would be provided for silvicultural and land
clearing operations. Overseas training would be provided to FD and PU(FD)
staff (para 4.08). The plantation project would work closely with the Forest
Research Institute (FRI) at Yezin. FRI would monitor and evaluate the planta-
tion program as part of its research program and FD and FRI would prepare a
monitoring program, in consultation with the project silviculturalist, by
December 31, 1980 (para 4.07).
Burma Railways Corporation (BRC) (Annex 4.C9)
3.18      Railways Rolling Stock Rehabilitation.  Transport capacity on the
Taungdwingyi-Pyinmana-Rangoon line would be increased by rehabilitating 190
double-bogie log wagons and 5 locomotives (Annex 2, Table 12). New bearings
and vacuum brakes would be provided for the wagons and spares for 2 major
overhauls each provided for the locomotives, to permit higher speeds and unit
train operations. BRC would thereafter operate four unit or regular trains
from Pyinmana to Rangoon and one train on the Myinbyin-Pyinmana line for
sawnwood transportation.  Spares would be purchased by TC and transferred at
cost to BRC who would then install them. Agreement was reached with GOB that
BRC and TC would form a written agreement, specifying terms and conditions
under which the unit train would be operated by January 31, 1980 (para
9.02(b)). The contract would specify inter alia that:
(a) TC would:
(i) procure and resell at cost to BRC vacuum brakes
and bearings for 190 wagons and two sets of major
overhaul spares for each of 5 locomotives;
(ii) ensure that wagons are loaded within a specified
time at Pyinmana and Thagaya if wagons were
presented as scheduled;
(iii) pay the regular one way freight charge for a fully
loaded unit train from Pyinmana to Rangoon, irre-
spective of load;
(b) BRC would:
(i) fit 190 double-bogie wagons with vacuum brakes and
bearings and overhaul 5 locomotives, to an agreed
schedule, and would reserve those units for TC use
on the Taungdwingyi-Pyinmana-Rangoon line;
(ii) run unit or regular trains on that line to a regular
schedule agreed with TC;



- 23 -
Table 3: SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES /a
% Base %
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Cost   FE
----Kyat million----  -----US$ million----
Civil Works
Road Construction (TC)       19.8    5.0   24.8   3.0    0.7         3.7     5    20
Administration and
workshops (TC)              2.7    0.1    2.8   0.4        -      0.4      1      4
Hardwood Sawmills (TC)        3.0    -        3.0   0.4      -       0.4     1    -
Teak Mill                     5.5    0.1    5.6   0.8        -      0.8      1      2
Plantation buildings
and roads (FD)              10.0    0.8   10.8   1.5    0.1        1.6      2      7
41.0    6.0   47.0   6.1    0.9        7.0    10    13
Equipment and Machinery
Road Construction (TC)       11.6   21.7   33.3   1.7    3.2        5.0      7    65
Extraction (TC)              91.3  170.2  261.5  13.6   25.4    39.0    53    65
Administration super-
vision and export (TC)       3.6    6.2    9.8   0.5    0.9         1.5     2    63
Equipment rehabilitation    3.1    7.4   10.5   0.5    1.1           1.6     2    70
Hardwood mills (TC):
- rehabilitation              4.4    7.2   11.6   0.6    1.1        1.7      2    62
- construction               10.1   14.5   24.7   1.5    2.2        3.7      5    59
Teak Mill
rehabilitation (TC)          9.3   15.9   25.2   1.4    2.4        3.8      5    63
Plantation equipment (FD)  12.3   20.9   33.2   1.8    3.1          5.0      7    63
Railwagon rehabilitation    3.0    6.5    9.6   0.4    1.0          1.4      2    68
(TC/BRC)                   148.7  270.5  419.3  22.2   40.4    62.6    85    64
Plantations
Teak plantation
establishment (FD)         12.0    -      12.0   1.8      -       1.8      2    -
Fast growing species
large scale trials (FD)   3.5    0.6    4.1   0.5    0.1          0.6      1    15
15.5    0.6   16.1   2.3    0.1        2.4      3     4
Training and Technical
Assistance
Overseas and local
training                    0.2    1.2    1.4    -       0.2      0.2      -    86
Technical Assistance          2.3    8.0   10.3   0.3    1.2         1.5     2    78
2.5    9.2   11.7   0.4    1.4        1.7     2    79
TOTAL BASE COST             207.8  286.4  494.2  31.0   42.7    73.8   100    58
Physical contingencies       12.4   16.9   29.3   1.8    2.5        4.4      6    58
Price contingencies          25.5   29.9   55.4   3.8    4.5        8.3    11    54
TOTAL PROJECT COST          245.7  333.2  578.9  36.6   49.7    86.4   117    58
/a   Including taxes and duties.
NB   Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 24 -
(iii) present wagons at agreed times to TC for loading; and
(iv) maintain and overhaul the reserved wagons and
locomotives.
D. Cost Estimates
3.19      Total project costs are estimated at US$86.4 M of which US$49.7 M
is foreign exchange and US$20.9 M, import taxes and duties (Table 3).  Local
currency costs (excluding taxes and duties) are estimated at US$15.8 M.
Including contingencies, equipment costs amount to US$51.8 M of which US$46.4 M
is foreign exchange, civil works and plantation establishment amount to
US$11.7 M of which US$1.7 M is foreign exchange and technical assistance
and overseas training amount to US$2.0 M of which US$1.6 M is foreign exchange.
The cost estimates for imported equipment, vehicles, and foreign consultants
and training are based on unit prices in recent contract awards and on
international prices, adjusted to January 1979 price levels. Costs of civil
works, buildings, and plantation establishment are based on recent costs in
Burma for similar works. Physical contingencies amount to an average of 6%,
based on 5% for equipment, 5% for buildings and hardwood mills (where construc-
tion would be almost identical to that recently completed in Forestry I), 5%
for road construction (which is in terrain similar to that in Forestry I,
where recent average costs are available) and 20% for Okkyin sawmill. Con-
tingencies for price escalation over the 5-year period amount to 11% of the
basic cost based on 7% per annum increase for civil works and 6% per annum for
equipment. Cost estimates by component are in Annex 2, Table 13.
E. Financing
3.20      Total external financing, which would amount to US$44.6 M would
finance all foreign exchange costs, except for reserve procurement (para 3.21)
or 68% of total project costs, excluding taxes and duties. An IDA Credit of
US$35.0 M equivalent would finance equipment (US$33.3 M), teak plantations
(US$1.5 M) and local consultants (US$0.2 M). An EEC Special Action Credit of
US$8.0 M equivalent would finance equipment. A Government of Finland (GOF)
grant of US$1.4 M would finance technical assistance and a UNDP grant of
US$0.2 M would finance overseas training. The EEC Credit would finance
specific items of logging and sawmilling equipment. The GOF grant would
finance a technical assistance firm. A condition of effectiveness of the IDA
Credit would be effectiveness of the EEC Credit and GOF Grant (para 9.03(a)).
The overall financial plan would be as follows:
Table 4: FINANCIAL PLAN /a
US$ million
IDA       EEC    Finland   UNDP    GOB   Total
TC                         30.9       8.0        -        -      15.0    53.9
FD                          3.9        -         -        -      5.7      9.6
Technical Assistance        0.2         -       1.4       -      0.2      1.8
Overseas Training            -          -        -       0.2      -       0.2
Total                  35.0        8.0       1.4      0.2    20.9    65.5
/a   Excluding taxes and duties.



- 25 -
3.21      Equipment and vehicles currently estimated to cost about US$8.4 M,
including contingencies, of which about US$5.1 M is foreign exchange, would be
reserved for procurement under local procedures, would be financed by GOB and
would not be eligible for reimbursement. The proposed equipment procurement
list has been approved by the Equipment Control Committee. A subsidiary loan
agreement for US$39.1 M between GOB and TC would onlend IDA and EEC funds at
9% interest, repayable over fifteen years including a five year grace period
with TC bearing the foreign exchange risk. TC would borrow from the Union
Bank of Burma (UBB) for other capital expenditures at prevailing interest
rates. The average annual inflation rate from 1976-78 was about 5% and for
the next three years is expected to be about 6-7% annually. Current interest
rates for similar lending from domestic institutions range from 5% to 9% for
investment and 8% for working capital. The execution and delivery of a
subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and TC would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 9.03(b)). FD expenditures would be financed by annual
budgetary appropriations. Adequate budgetary allocations for TC and FD have
been made by GOB.
F. Procurement
3.22      IDA Credit.  Equipment, vehicles and spare parts to be financed by
IDA would be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank Group procurement guidelines. Exceptions to these procedures,
totalling US$4.5 M equivalent, would be as follows:
(a)  proprietary spare parts for rehabilitation of existing
extraction equipment (US$1.3 M) and sawmilling equipment
(US$1.2 M) are specific by make and model so that ICB
procedures would not be appropriate and procurement
would be from original equipment agents or manufacturers.
(b)  equipment, spare parts and materials and groupings thereof,
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$100,000
equivalent, per contract, which are either required
urgently or are otherwise not suitable for ICB, would
be purchased through normal GOB procurement procedures
and on the basis of comparing prices from no less than 3
independent suppliers. Such purchases would be limited
to US$2 M which would be about 5% of equipment costs.
3.23      EEC Credit.  Equipment to be financed by the EEC Special Action
Credit, would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for
procurement and subject to EEC eligibility restrictions. Equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, which
is either required urgently or is otherwise not suitable for ICB would be
purchased through normal GOB procurement procedures and on the basis of
comparing prices from no less than 3 independent suppliers. Such purchases
would be limited to US$1 M, which is about 2-1/2% of equipment costs. Equip-
ment to be financed by the EEC Credit would include (a) road graders, log



- 26 -
loaders, fork lift trucks and straddle trucks for TC operaLions and, (b)
workshop equipment, survey equipment and radios.
3.24      Orders for sawmill equipment, workshop equipment and similar items
would be bulked to provide economic bidding packages for ICB and to reduce
the procurement load on TC.  Preference limited to 15% of the CIF price, or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to eligible
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Draft specifications and
bidding documents for crawler tractors (200 HP, 140 HP and 75 HP) front-end
loaders, skidders, 15 metric ton logging and tipper trucks, mechanical service
units and motor graders (120-130 HP and 60-70 HP) have been agreed with IDA.
A summary procurement and replacement schedule for major equipment is in
Annex 2, Table 14.
G. Disbursements
3.25      Disbursements from the IDA Credit account are expected to be com-
pleted by September 30, 1985, approximately nine months after the end of
project implementation. Disbursements from the EEC Special Action Credit are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1982. Disbursements from the proposed
IDA and EEC credits would be as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equip-
ment, spare parts and other materials (IDA and EEC credits);
(b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) for locally
manufactured equipment and spare parts (IDA and EEC Credits);
(c) 90% of expenditures for local consultants' services (manage-
ment accounting and information systems) (IDA Credit); and
(d) 100% of direct local costs of teak plantation establishment
(IDA Credit).
3.26      Disbursements for plantation establishment would be made only for
those plantings which had been certified by the Director General, FD to have
been satisfactorily established. Project plantings would be considered estab-
lished approximately nine months after planting. Certified statements of
establishment would be audited by the Director General, Central Accounts
Office acting on behalf of the Council of Peoples Inspectors of the GOB.
Disbursements would be at an estimated rate of US$50 per acre up to a maximum
of 29,500 acres. Disbursements for Okkyin sawmill equipment would be contin-
gent upon the technical approval of the detailed rehabilitation plans by
the sawmill engineer (para 3.12).
3.27      Applications for withdrawals from the IDA and EEC credits would be
fully documented except that disbursements for project plantings would be
against a statement prepared by the PD(FD) and certified by the Director
General, FD (Annex 4). Documentation supporting these statements would be



- 27 -
retained by FD for review during project supervision. Upon completion of the
project, any surplus remaining in the credit account could be used for project
related expenditures, as agreed between GOB and IDA. Estimated quarterly dis-
bursements are in Annex 2, Table 15.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.28      All government agencies maintain accounts according to procedures
and forms laid down by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF). The Central
Audit and Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Council of Peoples Inspec-
tors, is responsible for auditing government accounts and would be acceptable
to IDA as an independent auditor for this project. Agreement was reached with
GOB (para 9.01(a)) that, as in Forestry I:
(a) Separate accounts for TC and FD project components would
be maintained by the respective implementing agencies; and
(b) These accounts would be audited annually in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied by the
Director General, Central Accounts Office acting on behalf
of the Council of Peoples Inspectors of the GOB; and
(c) TC and FD would send to IDA copies of the summary of the
unaudited annual project accounts within 6 months of the
end of a fiscal year to be followed by certified copies
of the audited accounts and auditors' reports for the
PU(TC) and PU(FD) and for TC and FD within 9 months of
the end of each fiscal year. The PU(FD) audit would
include an audit of the planting program against which
IDA disbursements had been made.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation
Project Authority
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) (Annex 2, Chart 1)
would be responsible for project implementation, except for rehabilitation of
the BRC rolling stock. MAF currently is responsible for the Burma Forestry I
project and the ADB financed Sagaing Forestry Project. All extraction and
plantation establishment would be in reserved forest areas and therefore
under the control of MAF.



- 28 -
Implementing Agencies
4.02      TC would implement the extraction, road building and sawmilling
components. FD would implement the plantation component. Coordination of
administrative matters between the agencies would be provided through the
Project Steering Committee (PSC) which would be formed by August 31, 1979
(para 4.07) and the formation of which would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness (para 9.03(c)).  The PSC would be chaired by the MAF Deputy Minister
and would comprise the heads of the implementing agencies. The MAF Planning
and Statistics Department (PSD), BRC, Heavy Industries Corporation, CC, Myanma
Oil Corporation, auditing agencies and MPF would be coopted as appropriate.
The PSC would be responsible for coordinating activities, as necessary,
with other Ministries and would meet not less than once in three months.
Timber Corporation Extraction Operations
4.03      TC would establish a Project Unit PU(TC), headquartered in Toungoo,
by August 31, 1979 that would be fully responsible for road development, timber
extraction, rehabilitation of existing hardwood sawmills, construction of new
hardwood sawmills and the milling and marketing of teak and hardwood in the
project area (para 4.07). Establishment of PU(TC) would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (para 9.03(c)). A similar PU has functioned well in
Forestry I project. PU(TC) would be an operating division (East Pegu Yoma
Division) of TC and would be responsible to the Managing Director and Manage-
ment Committee of the Timber Corporation. In order to provide operational
continuity and to attract staff to transfer to Toungoo, PU would remain an
operating division indefinitely after the project period. The Project
Director (PD(TC)), with qualifications acceptable to IDA, would be of the
rank of General Manager. Appointment of PD(TC), with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (para
9.03(d)) and should be made by August 31, 1979 (para 4.07). The Management
Committee of TC would meet as often as required and not less than once a
month, to assist the PD(TC) in implementation and operation of the project.
Day-to-day internal operational coordination of the project in the project
area would be carried out by the Project Implementation Committee (PIC)
comprising the Department Heads of PU(TC), the Technical Assistance Co-
ordinator (para 4.09) and, as required, the technical assistance advisors.
A liaison office in Rangoon would coordinate operations, procurement and
disbursements between PU(TC) and TC Headquarters. Staff would be recruited
principally from TC. PU(TC) would have 6 Department Heads viz. Extraction,
Roads, Workshops, Milling and Marketing, Finance and Accounts, and Internal
Audit (Annex 2, Chart 2). Agency Extraction Managers would report to the
Extraction Manager. Agency workshop foremen would report to the Workshop
Manager. The workshops would undertake service and maintenance requirements
for all PU(TC) vehicles, mobile and stationary plant utilized in logging,
roading, sawmilling, railway log yards, project administration vehicles and
workshop vehicles and plant. Major rebuild work would be undertaken as
required under contract for PU(FD). Current mechanic staffing in the project
area is adequate but some relocation of staff would be required. Substantial
upgrading of mechanics from lower grades to skilled mechanic grades is
necessary and would be undertaken under the technical assistance component



- 29 -
of the project (para 4.08). Although most mechanics in Burma have undergone
some technical training there has been insufficient training in the mainte-
nance of advanced heavy -quipmnnt and mechanical staff often have to repair
unfamiliar and advanced machinery. In the project area, 25% of the mechanics
are Grade 1, with the balance being in the lower Grade 2 and Grade 3 catego-
ries. Training would pay particular attention to fleet and component-specific
training.  Such training would include, in addition to upgrading courses,
specialist courses in welding, machining, autoelectrics, toroue convertors,
other heavy duty transmission repairs, fuel injection, other engine repairs
and mechanical storeman training. The workshops would provide the following
services:
(a)  Agency workshops would provide primary field maintenance
and repair services and would ensure high standards of
in-field maintenance and service;
(b)  Swa static workshop would undertake the rehabilitation of
major components such as replacement engines, gear boxes
and differentials;
(c)  Pyinmana base workshop.  Pyinmana base workshop is not
included in PU(TC) but, because it is the major rebuild
center for TC, would undertake the repair and recondi-
tioning of parts or assemblies which require precision
machining and specialized mechanic skills. These
services would not be duplicated at Swa workshop.
Because marketing of teak and hardwood outside the project area would be the
responsibility of TC, as in Forestry I, PU(TC) teak would be identified
separately.   Agreement was reached with GOB that, as in Forestry I:  (i)
PU(TC) would be autonomous in financial and operating matters, (ii) TC would
deposit to PU(TC)'s bank account proceeds of project teak and hardwood sales
outside the project area, less reasonable marketing and milling costs,
promptly after Milling and Marketing (TC) takes possession of project timber,
(iii) PU(TC) would be permitted to retain annual depreciation provisions for
reinvestment and replacement of fixed assets (para 9.01(b)). PU(TC) would
provide TC with a return of at least 10% on its equity in PU(TC).
4.04      Annual diesel fuel requirements for project extraction operations
would be 1.0 million gallons in 1980/81, rising to 1.6 million gallons in
1981/82 and 1.9 million gallons at full development in 1982/83. Timely
supply of fuel would be essential.
Other Timber Corporation Activities
4.05      Work study, redesign and rehabilitation of the Okkyin sawmill would
be carried out by the Marketing and Milling Department of TC Headquarters
in Rangoon, using staff trained in the Forestry I project, with the assistance
and advice of the Sawmill Engineer. Agreement was reached with GOB that the
Marketing and Milling Department in Rangoon would be strengthened by formation
of a Market Research Unit by July 31, 1980 in order to continue TC's develop-
ment of a strong export marketing function and to improve TC's knowledge and



-30 -
and forecasting for the domestic market (para 9.02(d)).  The Market Research
Unit would, inter alia: (i) collect and analyze market and forecasting data
for East and West export markets; (ii) propose pricing and cutting policies
for export markets, (iii) analyze and recommend appropriate changes for
physical aspects of TC marketing including enquiry handling, shipping, con-
tracts and handling, (iv) survey the domestic, public and private markets
including the effects of national and sectoral priorities, (v) project
domestic product requirements by volume, size and species; and (vi) communi-
cate its conclusions within TC and MAF.
Forest Department Component
4.06      The plantation component would be implemented by a PU within FD
(PU(FD)) reporting through the Director General of the FD to the PSC. Estab-
lishment of PU(FD) would be a condition of effectiveness (para 9.03(c)).
Implementation uf the FD component would be coordinated by a Technical Com-
mittee, chaired by the Director General of FD and including departmental heads
of FD and the Technical Assistance Coordinator (para 4.09). The Project
Director (PD(FD)) would be recru!ited from FD and he would be of Conservator
status. Appointment of PD(FD), with qualifications and experience acceptable
to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (para 9.03(d)) and should be made
by August 31, 1979 (para 4.07). Initially two ana, in year 3, three regions,
would be organized within the project area (Annex 2, Chart 3). Each region
would be headed by a professional forester with District Forest Officer status
who would eventually control 6 plantation centers, each with an annual plant-
ing program of about 500 acres. Plantation centers would be headed by a
junior professional forester (Assistant Director). Plantation centers would
execute field operations.  after che third year plantations would be con-
sidered established and would be transferred to the FD for subsequent manage-
ment and protection.
General
4.07      PSC would ensure close coordination between FD and TC activities.
FD would depend on the construction of AW roads by TC to provide year round
access to the plantation centers.  PU(TC) and PU(FD) would establish their
headquarters close to each other, preferably in the same compound. A joint
mapping office would be established staffed by both TC and FD personnel and
would be responsible for preparation of maps, aerial photointerpretation and
primary survey work. A summary project implementation schedule is in Annex 2,
Chart 4. Key implementation activities and dates are in Annex 2, Chart 5.
A detailed equipment procurement, implementation and cost schedule is in
Annex 2,Chart 6.
B. Consultancy Services, Technical Assistance and Training
4.08      The project includes direct provision for foreign exchange costs
of about US$0.2 M for about 137 manmonths of overseas training for TC and FD
personnel (Annex 2, Table 16 and Annex 4.C 10), and about i6 manyears of



- 31 -
expatriate technical consultancy assistance costing about US$1.4 M (US$6,500
per man-month) (Annex 4.C 10). Agreement was reached with GOB that a detailed
program for overseas training, including management, extraction, workshops,
roads, finance and milling and marketing, would be prepared by January 31,
1980 (para 9.01(e)). Technical assistance provided by a firm over a three
year period would include about 3 manyears for workshop engineering, 3-1/2
manyears for mechanic training and in-field mechanic assistance, 3 manyears
for logging engineering, 2 manyears for sawmill engineering, 2-1/2 manyears
for silvicultural plantation assistance and land clearing. In addition, the
firm would provide about 22 man-months of external assistance for management
accounting and management information systems assistance to PU(TC), supported
by about 4 manyears of local consultancy (financed by IDA). About 2 manyears
of road engineering assistance and about 2 manyears of surveying assistance
would be provided to PU(TC) by local consultants. Equipment manufacturers
would also provide 1 manyear of assistance for training of heavy equipment
operators. Draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 4.ClO. Benefits from the
technical assistance would be substantial (para 7.04).
4.09      The total cost of the project's technical assistance and overseas
training component is estimated at about US$2.0 M of which US$0.4 M would be
local currency. A Technical Assistance Coordinator of senior rank would be
appointed to oversee and coordinate all TA activities in the project by
December 31, 1979 (para 4.07). The coordinator would be responsible to the
PSC and thus also to TC and FD, to ensure that the consultants are effec-
tively utilized. Agreement was reached with GOB that a consulting firm with
terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to IDA would be retained by
March 31, 1980 (paras 4.07, 9.02(f)).
C. Forestry Planning, Inventory and Coordination
4.10      With the continuing development of the forestry and forest indus-
tries sector in Burma, effective coordination, an improved data base, and
improved forest management planning will be increasingly necessary for
efficient forest management. Burma's forestry and forest based industries
have the potential for supplying increased volumes of teak and other hardwoods
to the export markets and for fulfilling a critical domestic need for wood
products by improving other forest based industries such as sawmills, veneer,
ply production and pulp and paper. In order to provide a long term framework
for planning, development and investments it is necessary that GOB should
improve its medium and long term forest development planning by developing,
over time, a long term comprehensive forest based industry development Master
Plan. This would include:
(a)  improving the data base for forestry for key areas of teak,
hardwood and pulp wood production;
(b)  carrying out a program of silvicultural and plantation research
and forest management development over the next five years so
that appropriate information becomes available for decision



- 32 -
making when inventory data indicates that existing stocking
levels and management practices are a constraint to long term
development;
(c) relating forest based industry development to resource
availability; and
(d) initiating land use - land capability studies to resolve
potential land use conflicts.
MAF would initiate and the MPF and MAF would undertake coordination between
agencies and departments involved in forests or forest products including TC,
FD, BRC, FRI and CC, which are users of, or produce, timber. Agreement was
reached with GOB that the Forestry Committee of MAF would undertake prepara-
tion of a detailed program for the development of a Forest Master Plan by
December 31, 1980 (para 9.02(g)).
4.11      Project evaluation would be the responsibility of TC and FD.  CSO
would provide technical and statistical back-up, as required, to TC, FD and
FRI for the monitoring and evaluation of the project. TC and FD would pre-
pare a draft Project Completion Report.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      Past and planned future production of wood in the project area is
summarized in Table 5. 1/
Table 5: PROJECT AREA TIMBER PRODUCTION
('000 H tons)
Teak                            Hardwoods
Year          Burma Total    Forestry II        Burma Total    Forestry II
1974/75           258              49                 527             135
1975/76           237              33                 393              93
1976/77           280              52                403              120
1977/78           316              67                357               81
1978/79           310              60                419               75
1979/80           313              60                460               70
1980/81           336             100                550              110
1981/82           363             132                643              200
1982/83           363             132                 733             290
1983/84           363             132                 733             290
1984-             363             132                 733             290
Source:  Timber Corporation and Mission Estimates.
1/   Assuming no further investments are made other than those proposed in
this project.



- 33 -
The highest quality teak logs would continue to be exported as roundwood
because it is unlikely that Burma will, in the near future, be able to com-
pete with Japanese veneer manufacturers who now slice veneer to about 0.25 mm,
which is approximately half the industry standard in the rest of the world.
Medium quality teak logs would also be exported in the near term. However,
upgrading of existing mills, or a new mill, could justify some local manufac-
ture when conversion rates and quality were satisfactory.  Low quality teak
logs would be sawn locally and exported as conversions or sold domestically.
A small volume of hardwoods would be exported as roundwood or conversions
but most would be sold locally. The increase in teak extraction volumes from
about 60,000 H tons to the final production volume over two years is consid-
ered reasonable, considering the immediate impact that improved transportation
in 1980/81 would have on teak production capacity and also the immediate and
one time benefit to be realized by removing some of the approximately 75,000 H
tons of teak logs now lying in stream beds, which may be simply and rapidly
removed by mechanical transport. This permanent reduction of in-transit
floating volumes would have the continuing benefit of reducing teak log losses
from theft from about 20% to almost zero for trucked logs. Log losses, which
have averaged almost 30% countrywide for all Burma over the last four years,
have been reduced in Forestry I to almost nil for trucked logs and about 15%
for free-floated logs.  The extraction components are similar to those of the
IDA and ADB financed projects and knowledge from these projects would simplify
and speed implementation of similar components in this project. Hardwood
production would increase to full capacity over a period of 3 years. Con-
struction of new sawmills, and rehabilitation of existing hardwood sawmills
has been phased so that log production arriving at sawmills would provide
adequate log supply during their increase to full two shift production.
Details of past and projected project output are shown in Annex 2, Tables
17 and 18.
B. Markets and Prices
Markets
5.02      Teak occupies a unique position in the wide range of wood species
available for use as structural, architectural or furniture grades. It is
highly valued because of both its technical and aesthetic characteristics
and the limited production of high quality teak. Its desirability comes from
its durability when exposed to air, sun and water; dimensionally stable under
changing atmospheric conditions; the ease with which it can be worked; natural
oils which make it smooth and easy to finish; resistance to decay and destruc-
tion by insects; and above all, its attractive appearance embodying a richness
and "depth" which are found in few other species. The world volumes of mature
teak available for harvest in producing areas are very small in comparison
with the availability of other species. The long rotation periods necessary
to grow mature trees limit the volumes which can be produced. Although exten-
sive plantation programs have been initiated in Asia, Africa and the Caribbean,
their recent establishment precludes their competing with Burma in the near
future. Currently Indonesia is the only other major producer of teak in



- 34 -
addition to Burma.  No reliable consolidation of inturraticLxaL trade figures
for teak is compiled but, since the species is indigenous to restricted areas
of Southeast Asia including Burma, Thailand and Indonesia (Java), a fairly
reliable estimate of the position of Burma in the trade can be made. Burma
supplies over half the world's teak and has recently become the only source of
supply of high quality teak in the world, due to declines in production from
other areas, and now has a world monopoly in the teak log trade. The recent
export ban for teak from Thailand, due to declining teak volumes, will further
improve the market situation for Burma. Exports of teak from Laos, Cambodia
and Vietnam are assumed to be small. Teak log exports would be limited by the
volume of high quality logs available. About 13% of teak logs which arrive in
Rangoon would be of export quality and would be exported principally for veneer
manufacture. The remaining lower quality logs would be converted in Burma.
In the project, an increasing share of teak sawnwood would be exported, rising
from 65% in the first year of the project to 90% in 1984/85. To achieve this
increase in export conversions, TC would need to continue to improve and change
its marketing system along the lines proposed in the FFS.
5.03      The hardwoods to be produced 1/ would comprise a group of species
internationally less well known than teak. The main species in the project
area is Pyinkado, 2/ known in the domestic market as an excellent heavy con-
struction timber and in the export market as a good material for railway
sleepers. Because of low hardwood production, there have been major shortages
of pyinkado domestically and recent exports of pyinkado have been negligible.
Other important species would be gurjun (for construction) and padauk (decora-
tive). About 60% of pyinkado and padauk logs and 50% of other species would
arrive in Rangoon port in exportable quality. Export markets for padauk are
good and, based on recent experience, all export quality padauk logs would be
readily marketable. Pyinkado and gurjun, however, compete in the world market
with other tropical construction timbers and, in some applications, with
pressure treated kiln dried softwoods.  TC would have to establish new markets
for pyinkado by improved market research, intelligence, pricing, and improved
coordination between production and marketing. An increase in export of other
hardwoods from Burma to the projected total of 56,000 H tons by 1985 would
imply a share of the world market in this type of timber increasing from the
past peak of 0.14% to 0.17%. This is an insignificant change in market share.
TC has recently improved its poor reputation in the export market both for
supply levels and continuity of supply. In the project, TC would coordinate
production and export sales from the project area such that reasonable export
quantities could be supplied on a regular basis. Pyinkado round log export
would be temporary until sawnwood quality improved to standards acceptable in
world markets. In the longer term, hardwoods would increasingly be exported
as sawnwood.
1/   See Annex 1 for species.
2/   23% of total standing volume, 28% of total standing volume over 5' gbh
and 40% of volume extracted.



- 35 -
5.04      In the domestic market, consumption of hardwood sawnwood has been
supply constrained and has declined from about 350,000 H tons in 1971/1972 to
about 160,000 H tons in 1977/1978. The increase in teak theft over the same
period is directly attributed to hardwood shortages. In recent years, TC has
been able to fill only 40% to 75% of the orders placed upon it by Government
Departments and Public Corporations and supply to private users has been
equally limited. Demand estimates by the FFS and FAO indicate total sawnwood
demand of between 350,000 and 450,000 H tons/year by 1985. Project output
would increase national sawnwood output to the lowest of the demand forecasts.
It is possible that forecast consumption would be achieved earlier than
projected, in which case, sawmilling capacity in the project area could be
increased. In order to improve knowledge about domestic demand and production,
TC would carry out a domestic sawnwood demand and production survey during the
project by December 31, 1980 (para 4.07). Draft Terms of Reference for the
survey are provided in Annex 4.Cll.
5.05      During the project, domestic consumption of teak would be reduced
to a minimum by increasing the supply of substitute sawn hardwoods and divert-
ing increased quantities of sawn teak to the export market.
Prices
5.06      Financial and economic prices used in project analyses are given
in Annex 2, Table 19.
5.07      Teak export prices are based on prevailing average export prices
and have been maintained constant for the analysis period. Past teak volumes
and prices are in Annex 2, Table 20. The average log quality from the project
would be substantially greater than the average for Burma (due to large mature
trees, and a reduction in theft of highest quality logs). Because real trop-
ical hardwood prices in general are projected to increase by at least 2% per
annum, price assumptions are therefore considered extremely conservative.
Although Burma's exports would increase during the project, the effect on
world teak prices would not be significant, because of declining exports from
alternative suppliers. Hardwood log and sawnwood economic prices are based
on prevailing average world market prices, adjusted for quality. Past hard-
wood volumes and prices are in Annex 2, Table 21. The project would increase
supply to the most pessimistic projections of demand. Because it is not clear
to what extent excess demand exists, additional data would be collected during
the project (para 5.04). Hardwood export prices used in the economic analysis
were lower than world market, reflecting the discounts TC may require to
reenter the world market in the volumes proposed.
5.08      The separate analysis of the teak plantation component assumed a
real teak price increase of 2% per year, for the project rotation of 60 years,
in line with projected price increases for tropical hardwoods in general.
In the long term, it is expected that the higher value, scarcer hardwoods
will increase in value at greater rate at least equal to the general price
increase for tropical hardwoods. In order to improve knowledge of the market
characteristics of plantation grown teak TC and FRI would undertake test



- 36 -
marketing and processing of plantation grown teak, would test its physical
and decorative characteristics and would project prices attainable at
maturity, by June 30, 1981 (para 4.07).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      The project continues and expands the ongoing MAF forest development
program. This program has historically been extremely profitable to GOB,
principally because of the extremely high returns from teak exports.  The
fiscal rate of return of the project to GOB would be 67% (Annex 2, Table 22).
A five year summary of the fiscal implications for GOB of the project are
in Table 6.
Table 6: FISCAL IMPLICATIONS FOR GOB /a
(Million Kyats)
1979/80    1980/81    1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
Incremental expenditures       37          231         170        82        75
Incremental benefits           -            99         216      260        271
Net incremental benefit       (37)        (132)         46       178       196
/a   Source:  Annex 2 Table 22.
During the five year project, incremental investment and operating taxes of
about US$90 M would be payable to GOB. Project investments by TC and PU(TC)
would be financed by on-lending from GOB. TC's financial status is summarized
in para 1.10 and in Table 7 below. TC's most recent financial statements are
summarized in Annex 2, Table 23.
Table 7: SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATUS OF TC AND FORESTRY I
Gross     Net       Net      Total    Return    Debts/
Year    Revenue  Revenue  Earnings  Assets  on Assets  Assets
-------- (million kyats) --------
TC            1976/77      541      346       58        881     6.6%        65%
Forestry I   1976/77       150      120       17        210        8%       62%
Forestry I   1977/78       190       140      55        260       21%       51%
A five year summary of the financial flows (constant prices) for PU(TC) is
given in Table 8 below.



- 37 -
Table 8: PU(TC) SUMMARY CASH FLOW
(Million Kyats)
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
Incremental costs
- Investments                   12        214        145        14        -
- Production                     3         91        154      181        190
- Total                         15        305        299      195        190
Incremental benefits              -          99        216      260        271
Net incremental
benefit                         (15)      (206)       (83)      65         80
The financial rate of return for the PU(TC) would be 14%, after payment of
all investment and operating taxes and duties (Annex 2, Table 22). This is
satisfactory, in view of GOB's heavy taxation and Export Price Equalization
Fund systems which are necessary in order to reduce TC's returns to levels
which encourage efficient operation. PU(TC) - the East Pegu Yoma Division -
would generate a satisfactory cash flow for debt service and which would be
adequate for replacement of equipment from its own resources (Annex 2,Table 24,
Annex 4C 13). Debt coverage for PU(TC) would be about 1.9 in 1980/81, but
would rise rapidly thereafter to over 5 in 1983/84. The overall earnings
performance of TC is considered adequate in the context of GOB's taxation
system and because TC's overall performance is expected to improve rapidly
due to the substantial and increasing contribution from the Forestry I project
and a similar contribution from the ADB financed Sagaing project.
6.02      FD capital and operating costs would be financed through budgetary
allocation from MAF. The financial rate of return of the overall plantation
program would be 19% (Annex 4.C8).
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits and Costs
7.01      Incremental physical output benefits of the project are given in
Annex 2, Table 25. The project would contribute to meeting GOB's 4 year
plan objectives of increasing teak export revenues and increasing supplies
of sawn hardwoods to the domestic market by increased utilization of the teak
resource, increased hardwood output from log production, by upgrading forest
based industries and improving incomes and living standards of landless people
in the project area.  The annual incremental total economic benefits of the
project, which amount to over Kyats 600 M at full development, would accrue
to the Government.



- 38 -
7.02      It has been assumed that annual "without project  pro.iuction would
remain at current levels of about 60,000 H tons of teak, about 70,000 H tons
of hardwood logs and about 39,000 H tons of sawn hardwood. Although these
production levels in the 'without project' case could be exceeded for short
periods by extreme overcutting, this alternative is technically unacceptable
and was not considered as an alternative.  Maintaining the "without project"
volumes may be optimistic, considering the rapidly deteriorating state of
equipment in the project area and to this extent project benefits are under-
stated.   At full "with project" production total annual log extraction from
the project area would be 132,500 H tons of teak and 290,000 H tons of hard-
woods, a net incremental log production of 72,500 H tons of teak and 220,000 H
tons of hardwoods. "With project" teak production includes benefits resulting
from the reduction in log losses and logs in transit (para 5,01). Total pro-
duction of sawnwood from State and hire mills at full production would be
about 113,000 H tons or 76,000 H tons net incremental production. The planta-
tion program would be the first phase of a continuing program aimed at increas-
ing the value of Burma's forest resource. It would ensure a continuing and
expanding forestry sector in Burma, and would provide a basis for sustained
forestry industry expansion in the East Pegu Yoma area. The "without project"
alternative for plantations is natural forest management with uncontrolled
destruction of high value timber stands by taungya farmers and the net bene-
fits are assumed to equal net costs. To the extent that most of the plantation
areas would be on already degraded forest land with virtually zero opportunity
cost, and because the economic costs of uncontrolled taungya farming are
substantial, project benefits may be understated.
7.03      Total personal income to project employees would be about Kyats 15 M
(US$2.2 M) per year.  In addition, Kyats 25 M (US$3.7 M) would be earned by
private fellers, elephant and buffalo owners and private truck owners. Income
to taungya farmers from FD work carried out concurrently with normal cultiva-
tion would increase the annual total revenue of each taungya family from less
than Kyats 1,600 (US$240) to more than Kyats 3,000 (US$450).
7.04      In addition to making physical investments to achieve and sustain
annual industrial production of 420,000 H tons, the project would provide
managerial and technician level assistance to improve utilization of new and
existing equipment and, equally important, to make future development in the
area self-sustaining. Based on current operating experience in Burma com-
pared with similar countries, more efficient use of machines and improved
maintenance due to the proposed Technical Assistance and Overseas Training
Program have reduced capital investments required for the project output by
about US$15 M or about US$4 M per year in annualized capital and operating
costs. Production benefits from improved sawmilling and sawdoctoring would
be about US$2.5 M per year.  The project technician training would emphasize
training teachers and the extensive technician level training to be provided
to mechanics, sawdoctors, plant operators, surveyors and photointerpreters
is expected to generate benefits outside the project due to staff mobility.
Improvement of Okkyin sawmill in Rangoon would be the first stage of physical
and operational improvement in teak sawmilling which, because of the high
value raw material, would create substantial benefits which, in this analysis,
have not been quantified.



- 39 -
7.05      The quality of sawnwood and mill recovery rates are very low in
Burma. For high value timber, Burma receives a greater economic return from
log export than from sawnwood or veneer export (para 5.01). Consequently, this
project would export the best high quality teak and hardwood logs. The intro-
duction of hardwood bandsaw mills and the technical assistance to be provided
by the sawmill engineer and sawdoctor would increase returns from sawnwood.
The project would improve the quality and recovery rate of sawnwood such that
TC could expand its export of sawnwood and correspondingly reduce its export of
logs. Prices used in the economic analysis are based on international prices
for export timber and international prices adjusted for transport to factory
gate for domestically consumed timber (Annex 2, Table 19). Sales benefits have
been allocated in subsales groups based on historical experience and expected
exports.
7.06      Labor was priced at its current financial rate in the project area,
where seasonal labor peaks for forestry coincide with farming labor peaks.
A Shadow Exchange Rate (SER) of US$1 = 12 kyats has been used for conversion
of foreign exchange costs and benefits to local currency. This SER is equiva-
lent to a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.56 and reflects extensive quantita-
tive restrictions on trade. Costs exclude timber royalties paid to GOB, sales
and other taxes, import duties and price contingencies. The overall project
analysis includes costs of the total plantation program but excludes planta-
tion benefits pending results of the teak research plantation program which
will give a firmer indication of expected yields. To this extent project
benefits are understated.
7.07      Environmental Effects.  The project would have only minor adverse
environmental effects. Animal extraction provides minimum disturbance to the
forest structure.  Mechanical extraction, through construction of skid trails
and feeder roads, will create some temporary minor turbidity in water flows.
Forest regrowth over skid trails is normally rapid and completed in one to
two years, based on experience in the Forestry I project. Major roads, if
not constructed correctly, can create some gully erosion and project manage-
ment would pay particular attention to the prevention of such erosion through
proper maintenance, drainage and bridging. Plantations are expected to
benefit the forestry structure through the replanting of degraded forest
areas. Some minor sheet erosion has been observed in certain soils beneath
pure stands of teak plantations and this would be monitored carefully by FRI
and the silviculturalist, with appropriate protective measures taken.
B. Beneficiaries
7.08      Direct total employment in the project would be about 7,000, compris-
ing about 2,200 in extraction, 2,400 in sawmills, 200 in administration, 1,600
in forest management, nurseries and plantations and about 600 in miscellaneous
and support services. Additional jobs will be also created in the Rangoon
teak sawmills and log export yards as a result of increased production from
the project area. The net increase in employment would be about 3,000.



- 40 -
7.09      The project has not been specifically designed to improve rural
income levels, but the taungya plantation development would also provide a
substantial and expanding source of employment and income to a group of people
with low incomes who were previously displaced during insurgency activities in
the project area. The plantation program would provide permanent new employ-
ment to about 1,700 landless families who would otherwise be limited to the
present and destructive practice of uncontrolled taungya cultivation. It would
make forestry a more secure source of regular employment throughout the project
area. It will improve communications with the deep forest areas and provide
forest villages with access to markets, education and health.  Currently the
logging season is limited due to the lack of all weather roads to the dry
season of about 100 to 120 days per year. This would be extended under the
project to about 150 days per year and would increase the employment and
income levels of private truck owners and extraction operators in the project
area.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.10      The economic rate of return for the total project would be over
100% (Annex 2, Table 26). The very high returns from the project are due to
Burma's possession of an extremely valuable and scarce timber resource.
Extraction levels without the project would be limited by animal power,
limited capacity in floating streams, and poor mechanical support. The
project shows substantial returns merely by increasing the levels of extrac-
tion. Substantial returns, however, are also achieved by reducing teak log
losses from present levels, which average 20%, to almost zero for trucked
timber (para 5.01). Because teak extraction shows such high returns, the
incremental costs and benefits of the lower return hardwood extraction and
sawmilling were estimated separately. The rate of return to hardwood ex-
traction and sawmilling (about 55% of project costs) would be about 90%.
Rates of return for hardwood sawmilling and extraction separately have not
been estimated, because they are largely inseparable activities. The high
return is due to substantial sunk costs in hardwood sawmilling in the project
area and low construction and production costs. Because of the long duration
of teak plantations and the economic unattractiveness of teak plantations in
other countries, the economic rate of return of the teak plantations (about
5% of project costs) was also separately estimated and would be about 20%.
This rate of return is high compared with teak plantations in other countries
and is due to (i) the very low cost of teak plantation establishment by
taungya cultivation and (ii) to the substantial comparative advantage that
Burma possesses in its optimum growing conditions for teak.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.11      The project remains extremely attractive even with substantial
changes in assumptions of revenue or cost. The project mix of local use and
exports could change substantially without significantly changing the economic
or financial rate of return. The State sawmills have potential for further



- 41 -
increased throughput should the conservatively projected level of hardwood
export sales not materialize or the local sawing market should not accept the
volume of logs proposed. Plantations are sensitive to the income received by
taungya farmers in the initial years of the project. Attention would be paid
by FRI and FD to assist taungya farmers in selecting crops (e.g. nut crops)
which would provide the greatest returns. Project delays, from past experi-
ence, would be most likely to occur in procurement. Delays would reduce
costs and benefits similarly and would not significantly affect the financial
or economic returns. Sensitivities to changed assumptions are given in
Table 9.
Table 9: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Hardwood Extraction
Total Project      and Sawmilling
Base estimate                  over 100%               90%
All costs up 20%                      98%              66%
Benefits down 20%              over 100%
All costs up 20%,                     81%              45%
benefits down 20%
Teak Plantations
Base estimate                     19.7%
Zero benefit from
taungya crop                    13.7%
50% decrease in revenue
at maturity                     18.9%
VIII. PROJECT RISKS
8.01      It is extremely unlikely that the project would become financially
or economically unsound due to adverse technical or economic conditions. The
project would continue to show substantial returns even in major adverse cir-
cumstances such as reduced volumes, lower prices and increased costs. A
possible risk is that renewed insurgency in the project area would preclude
forestry operations altogether. There is no insurgent activity in the area
now and proposed forest industry activity in the project, particularly road
building, would tend to discourage renewed activity because of improved access
for security forces. Should any of the area become insecure, project invest-
ment in equipment would be readily usable elsewhere in the project area, or
in other forest areas of Burma.  The principal long term risk is that, should
hardwood volumes prove to be less than projected by FD, then the proposed
cutting cycle would be reduced in duration and a reduction to the sustained
annual allowable cut, which is less than the proposed cutting volume, would be
reached sooner than could be compensated by initiation of fast growing species
plantations. This risk is considered small. It is unlikely that volumes
would be inadequate during the project period or during the fifteen year



- 42 -
analysis period.  The proposed hardwood cutting cyci, is <csut 30 years.  If
this cycle were to prove shorter for the species or sizes proposed, before
plantations of fast growing species matured, a reduction of the girth limit
could be made. Burma is embarking on a course of dynamic forestry management
which in the near and longer term would increase the revenues and expand the
long term resource basis from forests.  A further risk is that the domestic
market for sawn hardwoods may recover to 1972 levels more slowly than over the
five years projected. Much of the project domestic output would be absorbed
by the public sector. The risk of supply exceeding demand is small because
of the substantial additional absorptive capacity in the private sector. The
risk for plantation grown teak is difficult to evaluate. Plantations will
reach maturity in 60 years. Naturally there are uncertainties concerning the
value of decorative and structural hardwoods over that period.  Teak and
hardwoods have, however, increased their real values over an extended period
and teak has maintained a price premium above average hardwood prices for 150
years.  Given the increasing scarcity of tropical hardwoods in the world, the
decision of GOB to invest a small portion of its resources in teak plantations,
with the potential of extremely high returns at maturity, is considered a
desirable element of Burma's forest strategy.
IX.  ASSURANCES REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB that,
as in Forestry I:
(a)  (i)  PU(TC) and PU(FD) would maintain separate bank
accounts from TC and FD;
(ii) Accounts for TC, FD, PU(TC) and PU(FD) would be
audited annually;
(iii) TC and FD would send to IDA copies of the summary
of the unaudited annual project accounts within
6 months of the end of a fiscal year, to be fol-
lowed by certified copies of the audited accounts
and audit reports for the PU(TC) and PU(FD), PU
and FD within 9 months of the end of each fiscal
year (para 3.28).
(b)  (i)  PU (TC) would be autonomous in financial and operating
matters;
(ii) TC would deposit to PU(TC) accounts proceeds from the
sale of PU(TC) timber outside the project area, less
reasonable marketing and milling costs not, promptly
after TC takes possession of the timber; and, teak from
the project area would be identified for origin and
stored and invoiced separately; and



- 43 -
(iii) PU(TC) would be permitted to retain annual depre-
ciation provisions for reinvestment and replacement
of fixed assets (para 4.03).
9.02      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB that:
(a) (i)) At the request of TC, CC would transfer maintenance
responsibility for specified public roads in the project
area heavily trafficked by logging vehicles (except for
the Rangoon-Mandalay Highway), from CC to PU(TC) for a
specified period of time. At the end of that period,
or as otherwise requested by TC or CC, maintenance of
such roads would revert to CC. For each road so trans-
ferred a written agreement, acceptable to IDA, would
be made between TC and CC, specifying the terms and
conditions under which such transfer would occur, to
include inter alia, a description of the minimum
physical condition to which PU(TC) must restore the
road prior to acceptance by CC (para 3.07);
(ii)  As required CC would, promptly maintain or upgrade any
section of the Rangoon-Mandalay highway in the project
area that is heavily trafficked by PU(TC) logging
vehicles (para 3.07);
(b)  TC and BRC would form a written agreement, specifying
terms and conditions under which unit trains would be
operated by January 31, 1980 (para 3.18);
(c)  a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and TC would have
an annual interest of 9%, repayable over fifteen years
including a five year grace period (para 3.21);
(d)  a Market Research Unit would be established within
TC's Marketing and Milling Department by July 31,
1980 (para 4.05);
(e)  a detailed program for overseas training would be prepared
by January 31, 1980 (para 4.08);
(f)  GOB would retain a consulting firm by March 31, 1980
(para 4.09); and
(g)  MAF would prepare a detailed program for preparation of a
Forest Master Plan by December 31, 1980 (para 4.10).
9.03      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  effectiveness of the EEC Special Action Credit and Gov-
ernment of Finland grant (para 3.20);



- 44 -
(b) execution and delivery of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(para 3.21);
(c) creation of PSC, PU(TC), and PU(FD); (paras 4.02, 4.03,
4.06); and
(d) appointment of Project Directors for PU(TC) and PU(FD)
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
(paras 4.03, 4.06).



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                                 -
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY II: EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Glossary and Principal Species
A. Glossary
1.- Annual Allowable Cut (AAC): The annual amount of wood which may be
harvested from a certain area.
2. Felling Cycle: the interval between successive felling operations on
the same area.
3. Furnish: raw material for pulp manufacture.
4. Girdling: complete ring barking of teak to kill the standing tree,
thereby reducing the moisture content and allowing the logs to be
floated down river.
5.  Girth Breast Height:  gbh.  The tree circumference atbreastheight (4'6").
6. Growing Stock: standing volume of live trees.
7. Hoppus Measure: the measure of timber volume in Burma.
1 hoppus ft (HF)                -   1.273 ft3 true geometric measure
1 log ton/hoppus ton (H ton)   =   50 HF (roundlogs)
=   63.66 ft3 true geometric measure
=   50 ft3 (converted lumber)
=   1.805 m3 roundwood under break
1 sawn ton (5 ton)              =   50 ft3
=   1.416 m3 (sawnwood)
8.  Natural Regeneration:  regeneration of the forest from natural seeding.
The area may be managed either before or after seeding to enhance
regeneration success.
9. Reserved Forest: forests gazetted under the Forestry Act and which are
intended to remain in perpetuity as production or protection areas.



-46 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 2
10.  Rotation:  the period of years required to establish and grow timber crops
to a specified marketable size.
11.  Sawnwood:  cut wood, lumber.
12. Silviculture: the art and science of cultivating forest crops.
13.  Skidding:  movement of logs from stump to loading point.
14.  Taungya:  (i) shifting cultivation or (ii) a system of controlled, moving inter-
cultivation for establishing plantations, which originated in Burma, is now
used world wide.
15. Unreserved Forest: gazetted forested areas which can be alienated for
other uses such as settlement.
16. Virgin Pulp: pulp not previously used for paper making.
B. Principal Species
Teak       -    Tectona grandis
Pyinkado   -    Xylia dolabriformis benth.  (Burma ironwood)
Padauk     -    Pterocarpus marcrocarpus kurz.  (Burma rosewood)
Gurjun )
)   -    Dipterocarpus spp.
Kanyin )
In         -    Dipterocarpus tuberculatis



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Climatic Data - Project Area
Average Monthly Rainfall 1961-75
(mm)
Annual
Jan.     Feb.      Mar.      Apr.      May      June      July     Aug.      Sept.      Oct.    Nov.    Dec.   Total
Pyinmana
Average rainfall           6        2         2        27      172      242       230       292       182        165       25       1      1,364
Heaviest Rainfall         34        8        14        57        74     175        88       104        75        155       81       21       -
in 24 hours
Toungoo
Average rainfall           1        2         4        28      195      420       405       314       293        183       20      13      1,878
Heaviest rainfall          7       18        31      103       116      102       102       122        90         98       29       43       -
in 24 hours
Pegu
Average rainfall           2        5         4        41      298      727       771       833       535        268       18      11      3,513       1
Heaviest rainfall         12       31        35        90      103      138       201       169       189        159       40       21       -         9
in 24 hours
Average Monthly Temperature 1961-75
(IC)
Pyinmana
Average maximum temp.   30.0    33.1         35.4      37.7      35.1    31.1      30.3      30.4      31.5       31.8    31.1    29.2
Average minimum temp.   14.9    15.9         20.6      24.2     24.9    24.1       23.8      23.8      23.9       23.0    20.1    16.3
Lowest minimum temp.       9.0      9.3      13.0      18.0     20.8    22.0       21.9      21.0      22.0       19.0    14.4    10.6
Toungoo
Average maximum temp.   317.1    33.9        36.6      37.6      34.8    30.6      29.6      29.7      31.1       32.1    32.2    30.5
Average minimum temp.   15.6    16.2         20.6      24.4      24.9    24.1      23.8      23.9      23.9       23.4    20.6    17.1
Lowest minumum temp.    10.5    11.0         14.4      18.5      21.3    22.0      21.9      21.8      21.6       18.0    15.0    11.1
Pegu
Average maximum temp.   31.8    34.1         36.6      37.5      34.0    30.0      29.4      29.1      30.3       32.0    33.0    31.6
Average minmmum temp.   17.7    17.3         20.3      23.4     24.8    24.3       24.1      24.0      24.1       23.8    21.7    18.3              - '
Lowest minimum temp.    11.7    11.0         15.3      19.0      22.0    22.5      22.0      22.0      22.0       20.0    16.5    12.0
Source - Feasibility Study Report.
March 19, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Logging Systems and Typical Production Costs
Annual         Working days    Logging cost/H ton 1/
Method                     Production Unit              Production    per year           Kyats           US$
(H tons)
A. Elephant/Float
(i) 1 elephant (TC or contract)          200              200          140            21.1
(ii) Hand labor
B. Elephant/Mechanical
(i) 20 elephants (TC or contract)   7,500                 150          140            21.1
(ii) 1 140 HP bulldozer
(iii) 4 6.5 M ton self loading lorry
(iv) 1/2  125 HP log loader
(v) 6 operators, 1 supervisor                                                                     X
C.  Mechanical           (i) 2  140 HP bulldozers               6,000              150          130             19.6
(ii) 1 135 HP skidder
(iii) Chain saw (contract)
(iv) 1/2 125 HP log loader
(v) 4 operators, 1 supervisor
1/ Including depreciation
Source: Project Preparation Report and Mission Estimates.
March 19, 1979                                                                                                          a X



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Extraction Plan
('000 H Tons)
Agency                   1979/80       1980/81       1981/82        1982/83        1983/93-1993/94         Extraction Capacity at Full Production
Year 1       Year 2         Year 3         Year 4           Years 5-15           Teak Float   Elephant/Mechanical   Mebhnical
North Pyinmana
Teak              na            14             14             14                  14
Hardwood           na           29.5           42             52                  52
Total             na            43.5           56             66                  66                                     30                36
South Pyinmana
Teak              na            20             21             21                  21
Hardwood          na            32             54             66                  66
Total             na            52             75             87                  87                                     60                30
North Toungoo
Teak              na             4              4.5            4.5                 4.5                                                                1
Hardwood           na           30.5           44             54                  45
Total             na            34.5           48.5           58.5                58.5                1.8                30                30
South Toungoo
Teak              na            31             31             31                  31
Hardwood           na           18.5           29             35                  35
Total             na            49.5           60             66                  66                 15.5                30                 24
North Pegu
Teak              na            13             26             26                  26
Hardwood          na             -             10             37                  37
Total              na           13             36             63                  63                 13                  37.5               12
South Pegu
Teak              na            18             36             36                  36
Hardwood          na            11.5           21             46                  46
Total             na             29.5          57             82                  82                 14.5                30                 36
Project Area
Teak               60          100            132.5          132.5               132.5
Hardwood           70          122            200            290                 290
Total             130          222            332.5          422.5               422.5               44.8               217.5              168
1/ Data are for arrivals, net of:  (i) rejections at stump, (ii) losses in dragging, floating  and transport and (iii) butting.                              H 
Source:  Project Preparation Report and Mission Estimate.                                                                                                     |
May 25, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Road Units
Equipment/Unit                                                                          Construction Capacity/Unit l/
No.             Description                      Purpose              Staffing/Unit            Road type   Miles per day   Miles per year
1    140 HP bulldozer, angle blade         Pioneer Cuts              1 Road Engineer               AW            0.2              15
single drum logging winch            Winching bridge-logs
1 Technician Surveyor         ELS           0.4              30
Total                           45
1    200 HP bulldozer, straight/bull    Complete alignments          1 Survey Assistant        AW/ELS/Feeder      -              200
blade and ripper                                                                         maintenance
1    140 HP bulldozer, straight            Rip surfacing material  4 Roading foremen
blade and ripper                     assist 200 HP in ELS
1 Construction
1    120-140 HP 6x4 road grader            Finish formation side         1 Bridging                                                                   A
drains spread surfacing                                                                                   .
1 Quarry and surface                                                        o
1    125 HP front end loader               Load surfacing
1 Road maintenance
10   15 m ton dump trucks                  Transport materials
23 Drivers/Operators
2    1,600 gal fuel bowsers                Fuel delivery
16 Laborers
l    6.5 m ton general purpose lorry    Crew and materials
1 Clerk
1    4x4 jeep                              Supervision and
survey crew transport
3    120-140 HP 6x4 road graders           Road maintenance
1/2  25 ton low loader                     Transport bulldozers
(shared 2 units)
1/2  10,000 lb towed vibrating             Compaction of yards,
roller (shared 2 units)              hardstanding, roads
1/ 1 Road unit can construct noted distance of all roads per year.
Source: Project Preparation Report and Mission Estimate.
March 19, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Road Specifications and Typical Costs
Cleared   Travel        Maximum Grade       Minimum                            Bridges
Road Class                                Width     Width      Adverse   Favorable    Curve Radius Utilization/year   Load          Speed   Coat/mile 1/
(feet)    (feet)                                (feet)          (days)         (M Tons)  (mph)  Kyats       US$
1. All Weather Road (AW)
Log bridges, 6" stone/laterite/          60         22         40          50           100              300              25      25   127,000   19,000
clay surface compressed to 4".
2. Extended Logging Season Road (ELS)
Log bridges, side drainage and           80         18         5°          60            90              150              25      20    52,000    7,800
culverting as AW Road, minimum
surfacing, 5 year life.
3. Feeder Roads
Minimum cost, 1 year life, no            20         14         8°          -          60-80            120-150             -    10-12      na       na 2/
bridges, minor culverting only, no
surfacing. Stream beds used where
possible. Constructed by logging units.
4. Skid Trails
Log skidder/bulldozer use only,           -         10         -          22°         25-30            120-150             -      -        na       na 2/
no culverts, minor drainage.
5. Maintenance
AW/EIS/Feeder roads.                      -          -         -           -            -                 -                -      -       5,600      840
1/ Including depreciation.
2/ Feeder roads and skid trails constructed by logging units - costs inseparable from logging.
Source: Project Preparation Report and Mission Estimates.                                                                                                     HPs
March 19, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
AW, ELS and Feeder Road Construction Program
1980/81-1983/84
Feeder Roads (Logging Units)
Agency                    AW Road         ELS Road       Maintenance    Road Unit Cost/H Ton 1/            Approximate Total 2/
(Road Units)     (Road Unit)     (Road Unit)    Kyats               US$
-------------- Miles ---       ----                                                   Miles
North Pyinmana              7.2             14.4              96          8.38              1.25                    300
South Pyinmana             21.6             43.2.           288         19.10               2.85                    430
North Toungoo              25.2             50.4             336         33.97              5.07                    280
U,
South Toungoo              13.2             26.4            176         20.30               3.03                    270
North Pegu                 19.2             38.4             256        29.55               4.41                    300
South Pegu                 33.6             67.2            448          38.59              5.76                    290
Project Area               120             240            1,600         25.12               3.75                  1,870
1/ (i)  Including depreciation; (ii) costs allocatbd,; without distinction between teak and hardwood.
2/ Feeder road details vary on yearly prepared logging plans.
Source:  Project Preparation Report and Mission Estimates.
March 7, 1979                                                                                                                                O r



- 53 -                                             ANNEX 2
Table 7
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
ExiRting Equipment in Project Area
Approximate           Beyond
Age           Total  Economic                                 Total to        Cost of repair 2/
Plant             Years         No.    Repair    Repairable   Serviceable-'be Retained   ('000 Kyats)
Bulldozers
Caterpillar D7      18             2       2           0               0              0
Caterpillar D6      1-18           5       2            2              1               3
Allis Chalmers      10            13        4           8              1               9
International       15             3        3          0               0              0
Harvester
Massey Ferguson    10              5        5           0              0               0
28      16          10               2             12             3,375
Road Graders
Mitsubishi          8              4       4            0              0              0
4       4           0               0              0               -
Skidders
Timber Jack 1/      11           10        0            9              1             10
Caterpillar         2-7            2       0           1               1              2
Clark               2              2       1           0               1              1
14       1          10               3             13              195
Loaders
Yale                11             9        7           0              2              2
Clarke              2-3            6       0           4               2              6
International       10-15          3       3           0               0              0
Harvester
Caterpillar         7              2       0            2              0              2
Komatsu             9              3       2            1              0              1
Allis Chalmers                     3        3           0              0              0
26-     UT            7              4              11           1,830
Timber Lorries
i(enworth 1/        15            34      10          17               7             24
Henschel            NA            11      11            0              0              0
Hino 6.5 m ton      NA           243      89         120              34            154
288     110         137              41            178            5,090
Administrative Vehicles
Fuel Bowsers        NA             3       0            0              3              3
Tippers             NA             4       4            0              0              0
Hino 6.5 m ton      NA             3       0            3              0               3
G.P. Lorries
Jeeps 4x4           NA             6       4            0              2              2
16        8           3              5               8.3
Total                       376     154         167              55            222           10,500
1/ To be repaired at Pyinmana Base Workshop under existing CIDA grant.
2/ Including FE, taxes and duties. Labor is costed separately under maintenance.
3/ Serviceable -operable, but in most cases requiring maintenance/rehabilitation.
Source: Project Preparation Report and mission estimate.
July 16, 1979



ANNEX 2
- 54                                Table 8
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Summary Hardwood Log Distribution Program to Sawmills & Plymill
(t000 H tons)
Agency                No.    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84
North Pyinmana
State mills              3         NA         13.7       16.8        18.0        18.0
TC Hire mills            6         NA         15.7       15.7        15.7        15.7
Log supply                       16.8        29.4       32.5        33.7        33.7
South Pyinmana
State mills              6         -          20.2       26.3        36.0        36.0
TC Hire mills            3         -          12.1        12.1       12.1        12.1
Log supply                      18.5        32.3       38.4        48.1        48.1
North Toungoo
State mills              4         NA         15.9       20.0        24.0        24.0
TC Hire mills            1         NA          2.7         2.7        2.7         2.7
Plywood mill             1         NA         12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0
Log supply                      16.0        30.6       34.7        38.7        38.7
South Toungoo
State mills              2         NA         10.5       12.5        12.5        12.5
TC Hire mills            2         NA          8.1         8.1        8.1         8.1
Log supply                      10.7        18.6       20.6        20.6        20.6
North Pegu
State mills              -         -           -          -           -           -
TC Hire mills            -         -           -          -           -           -
New mill                 1         -           -           -         12.0        24.0
Log supply                       -           -          -          12.0        24.0
South Pegu
State mills              1         NA          2.8         3.8        6.0         6.0
TC Hire mills            2         NA          8.8         8.8        8.8         8.8
New mill                 1         -           -           -         12.0        24.0
Log supply                       6.6        11.6       12.6        26.8        38.8
Project Area
State mills             16         NA         63.1        79.4       96.5        96.5
TC Hire mills           14         NA         47.4        47.4       47.4        47.4
Plywood mill             1         NA         12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0
New mill                 2         -           -           -         24.0        48.0
Log supply                      70.0       122.0      139.0       180.0       204.0
Source: Project Preparation Report, Mission Estimate.
March 6, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Teak Utilization & Sawmilling Capacity
rrnominal 1 shift    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82        1982/83     1983/84
Capacity                             (O000 H tons)
Availability
Total arrivals (Burma                                      313        336         363         363          363
Total for sawmilling (Burma)                               268        288         312         312          312
Sawmilling
(i)    Outside Rangoon                    45               58          60         62           55           50          1
(ii)   Rangoon, excluding Okkyin         144.4            185         193        200          177          162
(iii)  Okkyin Mill                        NA               25          35         50           80          100
TOTAL                                     268        288         312         312          312
1/ Double shift operation commences.
Sources: Project Preparation Report Addendum, Mission Estimate.
May 8, 1979
%I-.



- 56 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 10
BUL IA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Labour Intensive Plantation Establishment - Typical Inputs, Costs and Taungya Benefits
Cost/Acre
Activity                               Input/Acre              (Kyats)        (US$)
LAND CLEARING
1. Surveying                                      1/
- labor                      0.5 man days              2.70         0.40
2. Land Clearing
- labor                      15 mandays           81.0
- tools                      sum                  13.6
PLANTING                                                        94.6        14.12
3. Burning & Reburning
- labor                      9 man days               48.6          7.25
4. Staking
- labor                      2 man days           10.8
- stakes                     sum                  15.0 _
25.8         3.85
5. Planting
- labor                      1.5 man days          8.1
- stumps/seeds                540 units           22.4
- tools                      sum                   6.5 _             =
37.0         5.52
6. Replanting
- labor                      1 man day             5.4
- stumps                     160 units             7.0
- tools                      sum                   2.0
14.4         2.15~
7. Weeding
(a) First Weeding
- labor                      5 man day            27.0
- tools                       sum                  7.50
34.50        5.15
(b) Second Weeding                                       34.50         5.15
(c) Third Weeding                                        34.50         5.15
Total Cost                                          327.00        48.74
Alternative Outputs of Taungya Farmers
Product                   Seed      Yield     Net Yield      Local Price       Net Revenue
(Basket) (Basket)    (Basket)   (Kyats/Basket)       (Kyats/Acre )
Hill Rice                  1.0        30           29            9.0               261
Groundnut                  0.75       10            9.25        34.0               315
Sesame                      -          4            4          85                  340
i/ Wage rate of j.4 Kyats/manday.
Source: Project Preparation Report, Mission Estimates.
March 6, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Plantation Planting Program 1/
(Acres)
1979/80 --                     -----1980/81    ------------    ---------    1981/82----------------- ----------------                 2/83
Total  Teak Fast Crowing Species Trials Total Teak  Fast Growing Species Trials Total Teak Fast Growing Species Trials Total  Teak Fast Growing Species Trials
Labor                                    Labor                                      LabGr             -
Forest Division                            Intensive   Mechanized                    Intensive   Mechanized                    Intensive   Mechanized                    Intensive   Mechanized
Yamethin (N. Pyinmana)      600    600         -            -          850    600        -           250        900    600         -          300         1,500   1,000        -          500
ytEnmana                    800    800         -            -        1,100  1,000       100           -       1,100  1,000        100          -          1,350   1,250      100           -
North Toungoo               300    300         -            -          900    800       100           -       1,100  1,000        100          -          1,300   1,200       100          -
South Toungoo                -      -          -            -          700    600       100           -         800    700        100          -          1,100   1,000       100          -
North Pegu                   --                             -          200    100       100           -         400    300        100          -            700     600       100          -
South Pegu                   -      -          -            -          350    100        -           250        400    300         -           300        1,100     600        -          500
TOTAL                     1,700  1,700         -            -        4,100  3,200       400          500      4,900  3,900        400         600         7,050   5,650       400       1,000
1/ Planting program has been updated to agree with latest field work by FD. Project costs have been left unaltered and are not significantly affected.  Procurement timing remains umaltered.
Source: Forest Department
March 6, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Plantation Planting Program 1/ -
(Acres)
----------------1983/83----------------  ----------------1984/85----------------  ----------------Total------------------
Total  Teak Fast Growing Species Trials Total  Teak Fast Growing Species Trials  Total  Teak Fast Growing Species Trials
Labor                                       Labor                                       Labor
Intensive   Mechanized                      Intensive   Mechanized                      Intensive   Mechanized
1,850   1,350       -           500         2,000   1,500       -           500         7,700   5,650        -          2,050
1,350   1,250      100           -          1,600   1,500      100           -          7,300   6,800       500           -
1,350   1,250      100           -          1,600   1,500      100           -          6,550   6,050       500          --
1,300   1,200      100           -          1,600   1,500      100           -          5,500   5,000       500           -
1,100   1,000      100           -          1,100   1,000      100            -         3,500   3,000       500           -
1,500   1,000       -           500         1,500   1,000       -           500         5,050   3,000        -          2,050
8,450   7,050      400        1,000         9,400   8,000      400        1,000        35,600  29,500   2,000           4,100
1/ Planting program has been updated to agree with latest field work by1FD.  Project 3osts have been left unaltered and
are not significAntlv affected. Procurement timing remains unaltered.
Source: Forest Department
March 6, 1979                                                                                                                 X



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Railway Program : Rangoon - Taungdwingyi Line
1979/80           1980/81           1981/82           1982/83           1983/84
'000    '000      '000    '000      '000    '000      '000    '000      '000    '000
H.Tons  M.Tons   H.Tons  M.Tons   H.Tons  M.Tons   H.Tons  M.Tons   H.Tons  M.Tons
Logs                           NA        NA        60     115        56     109        66      128       76      146
Sawnwood                       NA        NA        61     119        61     119        70     136        74      144
Total                          NA        NA       121     234       117     228       136      264      150      290
Logwagons required (units)       -        -        -      150        -       170       -       190       -       190
Locomotives required (units)   -          -        -        41/    -           4       _         51/    -          5
1/ 1 locomotive would operate "yard train" to move sawnwood wagons from sawmills on the Minbyin,
Thitpokpin, Lewe, Pyinmana line to Pyinmana.
Source: Mission Estimate.
June 1, 1979
I  X



- 60 -                                                   ANNEX 2
Table 13
BURMA
FORESTRY II: EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates by Component
('000 Kyats)
Percentage of Base Cost
Local 1/             FE           Total                  1
A. Administration and Export
(i) Civil works and buildings                                  1,915              50           1,965                  0.4
(ii) Equipment                                                  2,550           3,190           5,740                  1.2
Base cost                                              4,465          3,240            7,705                 1.6
B.  Road Construction (TC)
(i) Civil works, All weather construction                     19,816           4,984          24,800                 5.0
(ii) Equipment, road units                                     11,600          21,685          33 285                  6.7
Base coSt                                            31,416          26,669           58,085                11.7
C. Logging, Transport and Maintenance (TC)
(i) Civil works, maintenance workshops                           830              60              890                 0.2
(ii) Equipment - Logging and transport                  87,800        166,500         254,300                    51.4
- maintenance                            3,460         3.700            7,160                     1.4
- operational supervision                1,045         2,980            4,025                     0.8
92,305       173,180          265,485                    53.7
Base cost                                            93,135         173,240         266,375                 53.9
D. Equipment Rehabilitation (TC)
Equipment                                                  3,096          7,398           10,494                 2.1
Base cost                                             3,096           7,398          10,494                  2.1
E. State Hardwood Sawmill Rehabilitation (TC)
(i) Civil works                                                  630             -               630                  0.1
(ii) Equipment                                                  3,995          6,435           10,430                  2.1
Base cost                                             4,625           6,435          11,060                  2.2
F. Private Hardwood Sawmill Rehabilitation
Equipment                                                    420             760           1,180                 0.2
Base cost                                               420             760            1,180                 0.2
G. State Hardwood Sawmill Construction (TC)
(i) Civil works                                                2,340              -            2,340                  0.5
(fi) Equipment                                                 1,3            14,530           24,660                  5.0
Base cost                                            12,470          14,530           27,000                 5.5
H. Teak Sawmill Rehabilitation (TC)
(i) Civil works                                               5,535               80           5,615                 1.1
(ii) Equipment                                                 9,310          15,925           25,235                 5.1
Base cost                                           14,845           16,005           30,850                 6.2
I.  Plantations (FD)
(i) Civil works and buildings                                 9,965              850          10,815                 2.2
(ii) Teak plantation establishment                            11,995              -            11,995                  2.4
(iii) Fast growing species, large scale trials                  3,502              600           4,102                  0.8
(iv) Equipment                                                12,340           20,860          33,200                  6.7
Base cost                                           37,802           22,310          60,112                 12.1
J. Railways (BRC/TC)
Equipment                                                 3,045           6530             9,575                 1.9
Base cost                                            3,045            6,530            9,575                 1.9
K. Technical Assistance (TC/FD)
(1) Technical assistance                                       2,280            8,040          10,320                  2.1
(ii) Overseas and local training                                  245            1,190           1,435                  (.3
Base cost                                            2,520            9,230           11,750                 2.4
PROJECT TOTAL
Base cost                                                207,800         286,400          494,200               100.0
Physical contingencies                              12,400           16,900           29,300                 6.0
Price contingencies                                 25,500           29,900           55,400                11.2
Total project cost                                       245,720          333,180         578,900               117.1
1/ Including taxes and duties.
NB Totals may not add due to rounding.
July 5, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Suomoary Major Equipment Procurement and Replacement Schedule 1/
Proijet                                                     Replacemet
Eniotina  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  Total   84~/85  85/86   68W78    88    99    09   91/92  92/93  93/9
EXTRACTION (TC)
Logging
140 HP bulldozer, angle blade, winch              12              29      44                      73            12                      73                                     12
125 HP wheel log-loader                           11                5     20                      25            11                       25                                    11
135 HP log skidder                                13              15                              15            13                      15                                     13
15 m ton logging lorry with trailer               24              77      77                     154            24                      154                                    24
6.5 ton self loading lorry                        58              58                              58            58                       58                                    58
Power saws                                                        60              60             120    60              60               60             60             60
Roads
200 HP bulldozer, straight blade, ripper                           2                               2                                      2
140 HP bulldozer, straight blade, ripper                           2                               2                                      2
140 HP bulldozer, angle blade and wineh                            2                               2                                      2
125 HP road grader                                                 8                               8                                      8
125 HP frout end loader                                            2                               2                                      2
15 m ton tipper lorry                                             20                              20                                     20
6.5 m ton fuel bowser                                              3                               3                                      3
6.5 m ton gp lorry                                 2                                                              2                                                             2
4x4 SWB                                                             2                              2                     2                                               2
Administration, maintenance
Radios                                                            Set                             Set                                    Set
6.5 m ton fuel bowser                              3                10                            10              3                      10                                     3
6.5 m ton gp lorry                                 1                12                            12             1                       12                                     1
Recovery vehicle                                                     6                             6                                      6
4x4/4x2 SWB and LWB                                2        8       24                            32              2     32                                       2     32
Utility truck                                                        2                             2                                      2                                               o
6.5 m ton mobils service units                                      6                              6                                      6
New hardwood sawmills
Log loader                                                                 2
Fork lift truck                                                            4
Straddle truck                                                             4
Tow truck                                                                  2
4x2 vehicle                                                                2
Okkvyn Sawmill
Forklift truck                                                       4
Straddle truck                                                       3
6.5 m ton truck                                                      5
Tipper truck                                                         2
Wheel bractor                                                        2
3.-5 m tou truck                                                     3
Marketing and Milling Rangoon
2x4 Inspection vehicles                                              4
PLANTATIONS (FD)
60 HP wheel tractor                                        10              5       2      1       18
140 HP crawler tractor                                               2     2                       4
80 HP crawler tractor                                                2     4                       6
85 HP tractor/grador                                                 2                             2
4 eu yd tipper truck                                                 5                             5
12 0 ton truck                                                       1                             I
6.5 m ton fuel bowser                                                2     2                       4
Rotary slasher                                                       6     2       4       2      14
2 cu yd wheel loader                                                 I                             I
4x4 SWB and LWB                                             5       14     8       2              29
6.5 m ton gp truck                                                  10     5       2       1      18
Minibus                                                              1                             I
300 gal water bowoer                                                10     5       2      1       18
13 mton trailer                                                    10      5       2      1       18
Source: Project Preparation Report and Mi-sion Estinates.
1/ Yeor of delivery.
July 16, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
-- IDA CREDIT --------                      ------- EEC CREDIT --------            ---------- TOTAL ----------
IDA Fiscal Year & Quarter                   Quarterly        Cumulative                 Quarterly        Cumulative             Quarterly        Cumulative
Disbursement   Disbursement                 Disbursement   Disbursement            Disbursement   Disbursement
FY1980
September 30, 1979
December 31,  1979                                -               -                           _                _
March 31,       1980                            0.2              0.2                         0.1              0.1                   0.3              0.3
June 30,       1980                             0.2              0.4                        0.3               0.4                   0.5              n.8
FY1981
September 30, 1980                              1.5              1.9                         0.4              0.8                   1.9               2.7
December 31,  1980                              2.2              4.1                         2.1              2.9                   4.3               7.0
March 31,       1981                            5.8              9.9                         2.0              4.9                    7.8            14.8
June 30,       1981                             4.0             13.9                         1.9              5.8                   4.9             19.7
FY1982
September 30, 1981                              1.4             15.3                        2.2               8.0                   4.0             23.3
December 31,  1981                              6.0             21.3                          -               8.0                   6.0             29.3
March 31,       1982                            5.0             26.3                          -               8.0                   5.0             34.3
June 30,       1982                             3.0             29.3                          -               8.0                   3.0             39.3
FY1983
September 30, 1982                              1.5             30.8                          -               8.0                   1.5             38.8
December 31,  1982                              1.0             31.8                          -               8.0                   1.0             39.8
March 31,       1983                            1.0             32.8                          -               8.0                   1.0             40.8
June 30,       1983                             0.6             33.4                          -               8.0                   0.6             41.4
FY1984
September 30, 1983                              0.3             33.7                          -               8.0                   0.3             41.4
December 31,  1983                              0.2             33.9                          -              8.0                    0.2             41.9
March 31,      1984                             0.2             34.1                          -               8.0                   0.2             42.1
June 30,       1984                             0.4             34.5                          -               8.0                   0.4             42.5
FY1985
September 30, 1984                               -              34.5                          -               8.0                    -              42.5
December 31,  1984                                              34.5                          -               8.0                    -              42.5
March  31,      1985                             -              34.5                          -               8.0                    --             42.5
June 30,       1985                             0.5             35.0                          -               8.0                   0.5             43.0
July 16, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Overseas Training Requirements
Approximate      -----Year 1-----   -----Year 2-----   -----Year 3-----                -----Total-----
Duration m/m       #          m/m       #          m/m       #         m/mr                        m/m
Timber Corporation
1.  Logging PU(TC) & TC                               2             2           4        2           4        2           4               6         12
2.  Roads PU(TC)                                      2             1           2        1           2        -           -               2          4
3.  Management PU(TC) & TC                            2             2           4        2           4        2           4               6         12
4.  Workshop PU(TC) & TC                              2             1           2        1           2        -           -               2          4
5.  Marketing TC                                      1             2           2        2           2        2           2               6          6
6.  Finance PU(TC) & TC                               2             1           2        1           2        1           2               3          6
7.  Sawmilling PU(TC) & TC                            2             2           4        2           4        -           -               4          8
8.  Sawdoctor PU(TC) & TC                             6             2          12        1           6        1           6               4         24
9.  Photo-interpretation and survey PU(TC)            4             2           8                                                         2          8
Sub-total                                            15          40       12          26        8          18              35         84
Forest Department
1.  Silviculture                                      3             2           6        2           6                                    4         12
2.  Photo-interpretation, cartography, survey         6             2          12        -           -                                    2         12
3.  Forest protection                                 3             1           3                                                         1          3
4. Management training                                2             -            -       1           2                                     1         2
5.  Forest economics, planning                       24             1          12                   12                                    1         24
Sub-total                                             6          33        3          20                                    9         53
2173          75          46        8          1                44         37
1/ To include (i) pines, (ii) hardwoods, (iii) mechanization, (iv) plantations establishment.
July 16, 1979
Ft'I
1' I'
0 m



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Past and Projected Teak Log Arrivals and Utilization in Burma
('000 H tons)
Log Utilization                           Sawnwood Utilization
Delivery                                     Export
Arrivals 11                         Export                     to        Other   Total  Local              % Total
Year         Total   Forestry I    Forestry II  ADB          Other   Volume   % of logs   Sawmills    Use          Sales  Use       Volume  Conversions
1974-75       258        67.7           48.6       105.1    36.6        37         14          205          4       88      22        66        75
1975-76       237        83.2            33.0       88.1    32.7        33         14          195          7       92      24        67        73
1976-77       280       100.1           52.0        62.1    65.8        26          9          215          3       73      22        51        70
1977-78       316       101.1           66.6        76-      72.3       46         15          237          4       73      34        39        53         O
1978-79 2/   310        100             60.0        85       65         40         13          266          4      112      45        67        60
1979-80       313       100             60.0        88       65         41         13          268          4      113      40        73        65
1980-81       336       100              100        71       65         44         13          288          4      121      40        81        66
1981-82       363       100             132.5       65.5    65          47         13          312          4      131      33        98        75
1982-83       363       100              132.5      65.5    65          47         13          312          4      131      26       105        80
1983-84       363       100              132.5      65.5    65          47         13          312          4      131      20       111        85
1984-85       363       100              132.5      65.5    65          47         13          312          4      131      13       118        90
1985-         363       100              132.5      65.5    65          47         13          312           4     131      13       118        90      s3
1/ Arrivals - net of losses including (i) rejections at stump, (ii) floating/transport losses and (iii) butting losses.
2/ 1978/79 Data - Mission estimate.
Sources Project Preparation Report, Forestry I Appraisal Report, Sagaing Project (ADB) Appraisal Report, Feasibility Study
Reports and mission estimates.
July 16, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Past and Projected Hardwood Log Arrivals and Utilization in Burma
('000 H Tons)
Log Utilization                        Sawnwood Utilization
Arrivals 1!                       Deliveries                               TC
Forestry   Forestry   ADB                  to TC                           Local   Sawntimber   Other    Total    Sawnttmber
Year        Total       I           II      Project   Others  Sawmills        Export   Other  Sales   Output           Output   Output   Export
1974-75      527      47.3       135.4       178.8    165.5        427           11      32      57         235          30       265          2
1975-76      393      30.6        92.7       130.9    148.8        347            3      37       6         189           3       192          6
1976-77      403      16.5       120.1       158.0    294.6        257            5      28    113          138          60       198          2
1977-78      357       36.1       81.4       165.9 _   83.6        327           10      24      -4         173           -       173          -
1978-79 2/  419       40.0         75.0       174      130          378          11      30       -         204           -       204          -
1979-80      460       75.0        70.0       185     -130         419           11      30       -         226           -       226          -
1980-81      538     100.0        110.0       198      130         497           11      30       -         268           -       268          -
1981-82      643     100.0        200.0       213      130          549          45      30      19         296           6       302          -
1982-83      733     100.0       290.0        213      130          589          56      30      58         318          41       359          5          o
1983-84      733     100.0        290.0      213       130         613           56      30      34         330          19       349          5          m
1985-        733     100.0        290.0       213       130         613          56       30     34         330          19       349          5
Note A  Breakdown of Projected Log Export by Producer                         Note B  Breakdown of Forestry II Log Utilization
---Other Use---   Local Log
Year       Total  ADB   Forestry I  Forestry II                               Year       Export   TC Mills   Plywood  Others   Sales
1980-81    11    11          -            -                                   1980-81        -       110          -         -
1981-82    45    11         10           24                                   1981-82       24       127          12       18         19
1982-83    56    11         10           35                                   1982-83       35       167          12       18         58
1983-84    56    11         10           35                                   1983-84       35       191          12       18          34
1/ Arrivals - net of losses including (i) rejections at stump (ii) floating/transport losses and (iii) butting losses.
2/ 1978/79 Data - mission estimate.
Sources:  Project Preparation Report, Forestry I Appraisal Report, Sagaing Project (ADB) Appraisal Report, Feasibility Study Reports
and mission estimates.                                                                                                                     X
March 6, 1979                                                                                                                                         00



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analyses 1/
Product                                       Financial Prices         Economic Prices 1               Basis of Economic Price
K/H ton   US$/H ton    K/H ton   US$/H ton
1. Teak Logs
(i) Local use                           745 4/    111           4620       385       Weighted average export price, FOB Rangoon,
lowest quality teak logs.
(ii) Export                             4965 3/    741           8965       741       Weighted average export price, FOB Rangoon.
2. Hardwood Logs
(i) Local use Grade I                   395 4/      59          1220        99       Millgate Pegu, from world market price,
CIF Rangoon for similar timber.
(ii) Local use other grades              310 4/      46          1050        85                         "
(iii) Export Padauk                      4050 3/    604           7310       604        Weighted average export price, FOB Rangoon
(iv) Export Gurjan                       585 3/      87          1110        87                        it
(v) Export Pyinkado                     490 5/      73           940        73       World market prices for similar timber,
FOB Rangoon, less 15% discount.
3. Teak Sawnwood
(i) Local use                          1845 4/    275           5485       457       Weighted average export price, FOB Rangoon,
less 25% quality discount.
(ii) Export                             3975 4/    593           7215       593       Weighted average export price, FOB Rangoon.
4. Hardwood Sawnwood
(i) Local use Grade I                  1020 4/    152           2550       210       Millgate Pegu, from world market price CIF
Rangoon for similar timber.
(ii) Local use other grades              700 4/    104           2310       190                           "
(iii) Export Pyinkado                     920 5/    138           1770       138        World market, FOB Rangoon.
Notes
1/  Adjusted to January 1979 price levels.
27  Shadow rate of exchange  1 US$ = 12 kyats
3/  Based on weighted sales price 1977/78 FOB Rangoon, net of handling, packaging, harbor fees, etc.
4/  Based on weighted average sales price 1977/78.
5/ Mission estimate.                                                                                                                        M
May 7, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Export Prices and Volumes of Burma Teak Logs and Sawnwood
70/71                         75/76                           76/77                         77/78                     78179 (8 mos)
TEAY LOG PRICES 1/             Unit Price/H ton  7 Volume  Unit Price/H ton  % Volume   Unit Price/H ton  % Volume  Unit Price/H ton  % Volume   Unit Price/H ton  % Volume
Grade                   US$   '000 Kvats               US$   '000 Kyats               US$   '000 Kyats               US$   '000 Kyats               US$   '000 Kyats
Tender                       1,040       5.22         8%   2,150       14.41         2%    1,380       9.66        58%   1,270       8.87        11%    2,030       13.62         1%
First                          490       2.45         3%    1,000       6.71         1%    1,160       8.15         *    3,060      21 44         *      1,100       7.40         1%
Second                         350       1.77        29%      800       5.37        10%      970       6.81         9%   1,440      10.10         27.    1,480       9.95         1%
Two Star                       220       1.00        57%      480       3.22        74%      630       4.40        23%      870      6.07        29%       869       5,53        23%
Log ends                        85       0.42         3%      240       1.63         5%      220       1.51         2%      330       2.32         3%      340       2.26         3%
Sawing quality                   -        -           -       380       2.58         5%      490       3.44         7%      580      4.08        41%       630       4.24        53%7
Unbutted                       320       1.62         *                                        -         -        -          -               -         -         -          -
Unsorted                       110       0.66         1       270       1.81         3%       290      2.05         2%      370       2.60        14%      400       2.68        18%
Total Weighted Average         320       1.62       100%      520       3.48       100%    1,070       7.50       100%      720       5.05      100%       690       4.61       100%
Total Volume ('000 H tons)                           49.1                           33.5                           26.3                           45.6                           37.3
TEAK SAWNWOOD PRICES 1/
Total Weighted Average         150       0.76                 360       2.39                  510      3.56                 580       4.10                 650       4.33
Total Volume ('000 H tons)                           75.4                           67.3                           50.6                           38.7                           41.6
1/ Fob Rangoon.
2/ Average prices CIF European ports.
*  Less than 1%.                                                                                                                                                                       |x
March 6, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Hardwood Sawnwood Export, Domestic Consumption Volumes & Prices
Volume                            Average Prices
Year                    Total        Export   Domestic              Export                Domestic
'000 H tons                             k/H ton   US$/H ton   k/H to_ US$IH ton
1966/67                    310           5          305           564       117          271         57
1970/71                    330           2          330           337         67         347         73
1975/76                    192           6   -      186           626         93         474         72
1976/77                    196           2          198           655         94         NA          NA
00
1977/78                    173           *          173          1120       170          NA          NA                            X
1978/79 (8 mos.)            NA           * 1         NA          1165       175         840         125
Ht m
Sources:  Project Preparation Report, IBRD- Economic Analysis and Projections Department, Mission Estimates.
May 7, 1979



BLTUMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Summary Fiscal and Financial Analysis -
(million K)
Fiscal                                                     Financial 3/
Incremental                                                    Incremental
Incremental Costs            Incremental       Net              Incremental Costs             Incremental    Net
Year   Investment  Production  Total    Benefits    Benefit             Investment  Production  Total    Benefits   Benefit
1  1979/80        34           3           37           -          (37)            12            3          15           -         (15)
2  1980/81      195           36         231           99         (132)          214            91        305           99       (206)
3  1981/82      119           51         170          216           46           145           154        299          216        (83)
4  1982/83        23          59           82         260          178            14           181        195          260         65
5  1983/84        13          62           75         271          197             -           190        191          271         80
6  1984/85         6          62           68      -  277         208               -          192        193          277         84
7  1985/86       49           62         111          277         165             59           192        251          277         26
8  1986/87         9          62           71         277         205               3          192        195          277         82                 a
9  1987/88        10          62           72         277          205             -           192        192          277         84
10  1988/89       173          62          235         277           42           239           192         431         277        (155)
11  1989/90         6          62           68         277          209              -          192         192         277          84
12  1990/91         6          62           68         277          209              -          192         193         277          84
13  1991/92         6          62           68         277          209              -          192         192         277          84
14  1992/93         9          62           71         277          206              3          192         195         277          82
15  1993/94         9          62           71         277          206              4          192         196         277          80
Fiscal Rate of Return:   67%                                         Financial Rate of Return (PU-TC):  14%
_                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
1/  At constant 1979 prices.
2/  Fiscal analysis includes all investments; excludes investment, operating and other direct Burmese taxes.
3/ Financial analysis includes those investments and operations undertaken by PU(TC). Investments excluded
are: okkyin mill, railways, hire mill spares. Investment and operating taxes included.
Source: Mission Estimate.
May 7, 1978



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Timber Corporation Consolidated Financial Statements 1976/77
(Million Kyats)
Balance Sheet (March 31, 1977)                                                     Income Statement 1976/77
Assets                                 Liabilities
Net fixed assets        154         Current liabilities           288                            Gross Revenue                     541
Other assets             43         Payables                        34
Current assets 1/       642                                                                      Cost of sales                     195
Receivables              42         Long term debt (IDA)           65
Other long term debt           21                            Net revenues                      346
Working Capital System        161
and People's Consolidated                                    Other costs and provisions         98
Total Assets            881         Fund
Government capital             98                                                                                   °
Reserves/provisions             9                                                                                   I
Retained earnings             205                            Margin                            248
Total liabilities             881                            EPEF 2/                      105
State Contribution           15
Commodity taxes              58
Service taxes                12
190
Net profit                         58
1/ Financial year ends March 31, which is peak logging season, after logs have been removed from the forest, but before arrived in
Rangoon in the period April and May. High current assets reflect this, and the five to seven year inventory of floating teak
logs as a whole.
2/ EPEF - Export Price Equalization Fund.
Source:  1976/77 TC and Forestry I Financial Statements.                                                                                                
May 25, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Sources and Applications of Funds - PU(TC)
1979/80       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84       1984/85
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation
Total income                            51.8          234.9         281.3         364.6         412.8         464.0
Depreciation                             0.7           21.8          39.6          43.5          43.5          43.5
Total                             52.5          256.7         320.9         408.1         456.3         507.5
Capital
IDA/EEC loan                             3.4         129.4          102.6          10.7           0.2           _
Union Bank loan (capital)                9.1           99.4          56.5           5.2           -
Total                             12.4          228.8         159.1          15.9           0.2           _
Total                             64.9          485.5         480.0         424.0         456.5         507.5
Application of Funds
Capital expenditures
Foreign                                  3.4          129.4         102.6          10.7           0.2           0.2
Local                                    9.1           99.4          56.5           5.2           0.2           0.1
Total                             12.5          228.8         159.1          15.9            0.4          0.3
Debt service
IDA/EEC loan amortisation                -              -             -             -             -            49.2
Union Bank loan                          -              -             -           100.0          70.2           -
Interest                                0.4            18.5          31.1          32.4          26.4          17.7
Total                              0.4           18.5          31.1         132.4          96.6          66.9
Operating taxes                             29.7          133.9         161.9         192.1         214.4         234.1
Royalties                                    7.0           30.1          32.4          35.1          35.1          35.1
Other taxes                                  2.9           10.5          11.4          21.0          27.4          35.4
Total                             39.6          174.5         205.7         248.2         276.9         304.6
Working capital and other assets            12.4           63.7          84.1          27.5          82.6         135.7
Total                             64.9          485.5         480.0         424.0         456.5          507.5
Source:  Project Preparation Report, Mission Estimate.                                                                    e
July 17, 1979



- 72--                                 ANNEX 2
Table 25
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Physical Benefits of the Project
('000 H tons)
Teak                        1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85-1993/94
Total Log production          60        60        60        60        60            60
without the project
Log production with the       60       100       132       132      132            132
the project
Benefit                        -        40        72        72        72            72
Log export without           7.8       7.8       7.8       7.8       7.8           7.8
the project _J
Log export with the          7.8      13        17.2      17.2     17.2           17.2
project
Benefit                      -         5.2       9.4       9.4      9.4            9.4
Local log sales without    1.8         1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8           1.8
the project
Local log sales with the   1.8         2.5       4.0       4.0      4.0            4.0
the project
Benefit                      -         0.7       2.2       2.2      2.2            2.2
Sawnwood export without   13.8        13.8      13.8      13.8     13.8           13.8
the project
Sawnwood export with        13.8      23.4      34.9      37.2     39.5           41.9
the project
Benefit                      -         9.6      21.1      23.4     25.7           28.1
Local use of sawnwood        7.4       7.4       7.4       7.4       7.4           7.4
without the project
Local use of sawnwood        7.4      12.1      11.6       9.3       7.0           4.6
with the project
Benefit                      -         4.7       4.2       1.9      (0.4)         (2.8)
Hardwoods
Log production withouh the  70          70        70        70        70            70
project
Log production with the       70       122       200       290      290            290
project
Benefit                        -        52       130       220      220            220
Log exports without          -         -         -         -        -              -
the project
Log exports with             -         -        24        35       35             35
the project
Local log sales (Grade I)  -          12        30        30       30             30
with the project
Local log sales (other       -         -        19        58       34             34
logs) with the project
Benefit                      -        12        49       88        64             64
Sawnwoodproduction GradeI  19.5       18.2      18.2      18.2      18.2          18.2
without the project
Sawnwoodproduction GradeI  19.5       25.5      23.9      38.6      35.6          35.6
with the project 2/
Benefit                      -         7.3       5.7      20.4      17.4          17.4
Sawnwood production other   19.5      18.2      18.2      18.2      18.2          18.2
grades without the project
Sawnwood production other   19.5      34.1      44.6      52.8      69.7          69.7
grades with the project 2/3/
Benefit                       -       15.9      26.4      34.6      51.5          51.5
Sawnwood export with                   -         -         3.7       7.4           7.4
the project
1/ 13% of arrivals would be of export quality.
2/ Conversion export has been deducted.
3/ From total extraction 50% are other grades.
May 25, 1979



BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
(million K)
Incremental Benefits                                             Incremental Costs
Teak  Hardwood  Total                          Investments                              Production Costs           Total Cost
Year                                Extraction Sawmilling Railways Plantations  Total  Extraction Sawmilling Total
1  1979/80       -        -         -          9           -           7        28          44          3           0         3         48
2  1980/81    146        70       216        215          90          -         11         316         30           6        36        352
3  1981/82    268       188       455        175           4          4         11        195          55           6        62        256
4  1982/83    274       315       589         18           1           1          8         26         69           8        77        103
5  1983/84    278       328       605          1           -          1           7          8         70          10        81         89
6  1984/85    282       328       610          -           -          -           7          7         70          10        81         88
7  1985/86    282       328       610         68           -          -           7         75         70          10        81        156
8  1986/87    282       328       610          4           -          -           7         10         70          10        81         91
9  1987/88    282       328       610          -           -          -          13         13         70          10        81         94
10  1988/89    282       328       610        290           -           -          7        297         70          10        81        364
11  1989/90    282       328       610          -           -           -          7          7         70          10        81         87
12  1990/91    282       328       610          -            -          -          7          7         70          10        81         87
13  1991/92    282       328       610          -           -           -          7          7         70          10        81         87
14  1992/93    282       328       610          4            -          -          7         10         70          10        81         91
15  1993/94    282       328       610         68           -           -          7         75         70          10        81        156
Rate of return: Over 100%
Source:  Mission Estimate.
May 25, 1979                                                                                                                                      MIX



BURMA
FORESTRY 11: EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS
ORGANIZATION CHART
|  Minister 
§                         I             Off~~~~~~~~~~~~~ice of the Minister
| Deputy Minister                                                                                    Deputy Minister
Livestock, Fisheries
l  Agriculture   l                                                                       l        & Forests
Planning & Statistics          Agriculture             State Farms                                                      imber               ject Steering               Forest
Planning                   State Farms~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        TmerPojctSeein                                     ort
Department                 Department              Corporation                                                  Corporation              Committee               Department
Irrigation    l l       Survey                         Salt Corp.                                                                                              Fisheries
l    Department    l l    Department  l   |     |                "                        "                        .             |     Department
-| Land Records  lameango   Z o |-                  Veterinary & Animal                                           |                                                    Pearl
Depa oren             giH aresusbandary Dept.                                                                                                               & Fishery Corp.
Livestock Corp.
Proposed
U Liaison
Sass Peu Yoma   Technicalss            V
Division        Coordmnt.
World Bank - 20060
rtX
I . 



BURMA
FORESTRY 11 - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Project Unit (TC) Organization Chart
Timber Corporation                                                  Technical Assistance
Managing Director/Management Committee                                             Coordinator
Project Implementation                           Project Director 
Committee 
Liaison Office                             ZIIchn....~ ji~                         I    icas ssistance
Rangoon                                                                          Consultants (PU-TC)
|   Deputy Project Director
Internal                                     Engingaction                                       oadig                                         Offi 
Audit                 Fiac                   niern                    xrcinRasMarketing                                                     ManagerI
Manager                M                       Manager                 Manager                Manager                 Manager             (Headquarters)                                            Lni
Extraction                Road
Procurement             Workshop                 Agencies             Constructin             Sawmilling                 apping
Sittang
Inventory                Agency                 Rafting
Workshops (6)             Agency
Cost                 Sawmill   |                                            _           Joint
Accounting             Engineering                                                          with
PU (FD)
Financial                                                                                                                                                            r1t X
Accounting                                                                                                           Bn  -0
World Bank- 20268



BURMA
FORESTRY 11 - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Project Unit (FD)- Organization Chart
Director Gerieral                                     Technical Assistance
FD                                                 Coordinator
Technical                                                                                    |
Comm ittee
Plantation
Dirctr                                           r
Technical Assistance 
Assistant      |
Director
eanica                 Accounts               Region 1               Region 2               Region 31/             Mapping 
Engineer                Officer           Deputy Director         Deputy Director        Deputy Director             Unit
6 Centers
|     Plantation Cnter
Assistant Director
_  _  _  Joint with
PU (TC)
Deputy Ranger (4)                  Nursery
- Deputy Ranger
- Forest Guard (2)
F orest
Guard (6)
'IN
1' Region 3 from year 4.                                                                                                                                                     rt
World Bank - 20267



BURMA
FORESTRY II: EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
SUMMARY PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
BLurmese Fiscal Year         l-------1998                    Ic1980/81'                    i                19182                           982183                       198/8
Calendar Year                1979                           1980                           1981                          19q82                          1983                            1984
AgenCy
EXTRACTION
\     .
1. Equipment Procurement                 TC                              ~
1.1  Road Construction                                                  u
1.2  Logging                                                     ' tgl                        .d
1.3 Admninistration & Maintenance
2. Equipment FRehabilitation              T
3. Road Construction                     TC                                                             0Mls AW/E LS                  kH iles AW/ELS    \>            90 Miles AW/ELS                 90 Miles AVVIEL~
SAW MILLING
1. Rehabilitation Hardwood               TC
1 .1  Equipment Procurement                                                     I
1.2  Civil Works & Installation                                                                                    16ilsCmlt
2. Hardvvood Construction                 TC7,
2.1  Equipment Procurement                                                         silNO. 1Copee                                                  N"26mlt'
2.2  Civil Works & Installation 
3. Okkyin Sam Mlill                       TO
3.1 Studiy
3.2 Equipmnent Procurement
3.3 Civil Works & Installation
PLANTATIONS                                                                                                                                                       V
1. Equipment Procurement                 FD
2. Teak Plantation Establishment          P0            1700 Acres                        30    ce                     3900 Acres                     6650 Acres                        7 050 Acres                    000 Acres
3. Fast Gromving Species Trials          FD                                                90Acres                     1 000 Acres                    140    cres1400 Acres                                            1 0qAcres
RAILWAYS
1. Equipment Procurement                 TO
SPARE PARTS                              TO/FD                                                                                                                                                                                         il
Illelhlmlull   Order
i_J Each group of lotting equipment is ordered at one time and delivered in tmo batches,.-1
~~~ ~~Delivery                                                         2_/ Mechanical handling equipment.r-
Field Work                                                3J Savv milling equipment                                                                                                             World Bank - 20128
V  \ Rainy Season



ANNEX 2
Chart 5
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Key Implementation Activities
Activity                      Ref. Para   Responsibility           Date
1.  810 working elephants in project        3.05         TC/MAF          August 31, 1981
area.
2.  (i) Conversion of 58 self-load          3.06         TC              October 31, 1980
6.5 m ton lorries completed
(ii) Conversion of remaining 58          3.06        TC              October 31, 1981
self-load lorries completed
3.  Radio frequencies allocated to          3.06         MAF             September 30, 1979
TC.
4.  Completion of repairs to 15             3.08         TC              October 31, 1980
Kenworth logging trucks and
11 Timberjack skidders at Pyinmana
Base Workshop, transfer to PU(TC).
5.  Preparation of a program for            3.17         FD/FRI/MAF      December 31, 1980
monitoring the plantation program
6.  Establish PSC                           4.02         MAF             August 31, 1979
7.  Establish PU(TC)                        4.03         TC/MAF          August 31, 1979
8.  Appoint PD(TC)                          4.03         TC/MAF          August 31, 1979
9.  Establish TC Market Research Unit       4.05         TC              July 31, 1980
10. Establish PU(FD)                        4.06         FD/MAF          August 31, 1979
11. Appoint PD(FD)                          4.06         FD/MAF          August 31, 1979
12. Appoint TA Coordinator                  4.09         MAF             December 31, 1979
13. Consultant firm retained                4.09         MAF            March 31, 1980
14. Complete draft program for              4.10         FD/MAF          December 31, 1980
preparation of a Forest Master Plan.
15. Completion of domestic sawnwood         5.04         TC             December 31, 1980
demand and production survey.
16. Completion of TC and FRI test           5.08         TC/FRI          June 30, 1981
marketing and processing of
plantation grown teak, price
projections.
July 17, 1979



BURM&
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Equipment List and Procurement Schedule a/
Foreign        Local         Takes
Unit       Total           Total         and         Procurement                             Procurement Schedule 5/
No.                  Item                               Cost 1/    Cost    2/    Cost  3/        Duties      Method       4/       A           B           C           D          __ F
____-------- ('000 Kyats) ------------------
A.  TIMBER CORPORATION - PU (TC)
A.l ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Al.l  200 HP Bulldozer with straight            2       940          1,870            90            930           ICR              *         8/79       10/79        12/79        1/80       8/80
blade and ripper
A1.2  140 HP Bulldozer with straight             2      600          1,200             60           600           ICB                        8/79       10/79        12/79        1/80       8!80
blade and ripper
Al.3  140 HP Bulldozer with angle               2       650          1,300             60           650           ICB              *         8/79       10/79        12/79        1/80       8/80
blade and winch
Al.4  125 HP 6 x 4 road grader                   8      510          4,100            190         2,030           EEC-ICB                    9/79       11/79         1/80        2/80      10/80
A1.5  125 HP Bucket loader                      2       610          i,210             60           610           EEC-ICB          *         9/79       10/79        12/79        1/80       8/80
A1.6  Low bed loader 40 m ton                    1      740             740            40           370           ICB             9/79      10/79       12/79          3/80       4/80       9/80
A1.7  15 m ton Tipper truck                    20       340          6,700            330         3,340           ICB              *         8/79       10/79        12/79         1/80      A/80
A1.8  6.5 m ton Fuel bowsers                    3       270             -             820           -             RP                          -           -                         -         9180
Al.9  4 x 4 SWB vehicles                         2      100            -              200           -             RP               -          -           -            -           -         3180
Al.10  Survey equipment
- Photoscriber                        I
- Enlarger                            1
- DiOdzoprinter                       1
- Planimeters                         2
- Stereo viewer                       6
- Compass - staff                     2
- Compass - hand                      6
- Clinometer - level and staff        1
- Clinometer - hand                   6
- Chains and tapes
- topo/trailer tapes             6
- 100 foot                      12
- Miscellaneous
Total survey                         60             60           -              20           EEC-PS (B)        -         9/79       11/79                      1/80      6/80
Subtotal                                        17,180         1,850         8,550
Subtotal including spares  6/                                20,710         2,280        10,290
~00
Footnotes page 14.
a/ This estimate of equipment requirements may be changed during project implementation by agreement between the Borrower and IDA.
June 21, 1979



Foreign        Local         Taxes
Unit        Total          Total          and         Procurement                              Procurement Schedule 5/
No.                   Item                      Qtyf    Cost 1/    Cost    2/    Cost  3/          Duties      Method        4/      A            B           C           D           E            F
-- - - -- -TrT   Tyats)7 ----- -- -- -- --
A.2 LOGGING
A2.1  140 IIP Bulldozer with angle blade         73      650         47,840          2,390         23,920           ICB               *          8/79       10/79       12/79        1/80 ( (29)  9/80
and winch                                                                                                                                                                            ( (44)  7/81
A2.2  125 HP Nbheeled log loader                 25      610         15,380            770          7,690           EEC-ICB           *          8/79       10/79       12/79         1/80 ( (5)   9/80
( (20)  7/81
A2.3  130-140 HP Wheeled skidder                  15     420           6,230           310          3,120           ICB               *          8/79       10/79       12/79         1/80          9/80
A2.4  (i)  6.5 m Logging lorry                   58      180             -          10,530             -            RP                -           -           -            -           -           10/80
(ii)  Self loading equipment               116      30             -           6,020             -            RP               7/79               -           -                  -            5/80
A2.5  (i)  15 m ton Logging lorry               154      340 a/      51,030          2,600         25,990           ICB               *          8/79       10/79       12/79         1/80 )(77 + 20) 9/80
(ii)  10 m ton Towed trailer                40                                                                                                                                       )(77 + 20) 7/81
A2.6  Power saw                                 120       #              400            20             200          PS          (60) *           9/79       11/79          -          1/80          7/80     o
(60) -          6/81        8/81          -         10/81          4/82
Subtotal                                                      121,780        22,640          60,920
Subtotal including spares 6/                                  153,210        24,530          76,460
A.3 MAINTENANCE
A3.1  Welding/Generators etc
- Engine driven welding set                8                                                                                     *
- Portable service unit (lube              7
and air compressor)
- Oxy-acetylene welding/cutting            9
set
- Battery charger 50A                      7
- Track reconditioning machine             1
- Soldering equipment                     10
- Generating set 20 KW                     1
- Steam clearer                            2                                                                                                                                   1/80 __80
Lot           280             40           140         EEC-pS (B)              -       9/79        11/79         _          1/80        6/80
a/ Price is combined for lorry/trailer in ratio of 154/40.
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979



Foreign        Local         Taxes
Unit        Total          Total          and         Procurement                             Procurement Schedule V
No.                  Item                     - Qty      Cost 1/    Cost    2!    Cost  3/         Duties      Method       4/         A          1           C           D
A3.2  Jacks and heavy lift equipment
- Hydraulic jack 10 ton                  1E
- Hydraulic jack 20 ton                    8
- Track pin press                          7
- Chain block S ton                        8
- Chain block 2 ton                        8
- Sheer legs                  ~~~~10                    ----                                                                   97           17                       /0         68
- Sheer legs                              10      LBot           120            60             60         EEC-PS (B)             -        9179       11/79          -          1180        b/SO
A3.3  Tools
- Tractor mechanic tool kits            135
(metric and imperial)
- Industrial tool set (over size          10
specialist spanners)
- Torque wrench 300 ft lb                  8
- Torque wrench 100 ft lb                  8
- Plumbers tools, wrenches                 8
- Portable electric drill I"               8
- Portable electric grinders               8
- Benchvice 5"-6"                        56
-C Glamps (set of 2)                      26
- Heav-y duty tyre repair kit             8                      -97                                                                                 17
tot           820            So            410         EEC-ICB (B)            -        9/79       11/79          -          1/80        6/80
A3.4 Specialist 'fools
- Tap and die set (metric)               8
- Tap and die set (imperial)            8
, Stud/screw extractor                   8
- Bench grinder (10")                   4
- Bench drill (1 1/2")                  4
- Inspection lamp                      20
- Compression gauge                    12
- Hydraulic test gauge                  4
- Battery cell tester                   8
- Measuring sets (micrometer,          10
verater, depthetc)
Lot           40            -              20          EEC-PS (B)          -          9/79       11/79          _          1/80        6/80
A3.5  6.5 m ton Fuel bowser                      6        270             -          1,620             -          uP                  -           -           -           -            -          8/80
A3.6  4 x 4 SWB vehicles                          6         -             -            600             -          RP                  _                                                -     (4) i/80
(6) s/so
A3.7  4 x4 LdB pickup                             4        100            -            400             -          RP                              -                       -            -          6/80
A3.8  6.5 m ton service vehicle                  6        180             -          1,080             -          RP                  -           -           -           -            -          9/80
A3.9  Miscellaneous equipment,                   -         -              -            200             -         PS
pressure gauges, etc.
Subtotal                                                  1,260           4,080          630
Subtotal including spares 6/                              1,580           4,790          790
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979
a' S



Foreign        Local          Taxes
Unit        Total           Total          and         Procurement                               Procurement Schedule  5/
No.                   Item                       Qty      Cost 1/    Cost    2/    Coat  3/          Duties       Method        4/        A          B           C            D           E            P
------------ ('000 Ryats) ------------------
A.4  OPERATING EQUIPMENT
A4.1  6.5 m ton fuel bowser                       4         270           -            1,080            -            RP                    -         -            -           -            -      (2) 7/80
(2) 7/81
A4.2  Radio system (incl. 10% spares)
- 100 w                                     2         50          100              10            50            EEC-ICR            10/79     12/79         2/80        4/80         5/80       10/80
-25 w                                       6         40          240              10           120
A4.3  4 x 4 SWB vehicles
- Agency managers                          6         100           -              600            -            RP                    -         -            -           -            -          6/80
A4.4  4 x 2 LWB pickup
- Agency managers                           1        100           -              100                         R RP                  -         -            -           -            -         12/80
A4.5  Recovery vehicle 6.5 m ton                  6         180           -            1,080                         R NP                                         _           _ -                    12?80
Subtotal                                                           340          2,880           170
A.5 ADMINISTRATION PU(TC)
(PU (TO) Headquarters)
A5.1  Typewriter 18"                               6         #            20             4             10           PS (B)                 -        7/79         9/79          _         11/79        4/80
A5.2  Typewriter 12"                               4         #            20             #             10              "                              "           "            I           I            I
A5.3  Hand calculator                              6         #            20             #             10              T                   I         "            "            "           "      
A5.4  Electric calculator                          4         #            20             #             10              "                                          " U"                                  "
A5.5  Electronic calculator                       10         4             #             #              #              "                   "         "            "            " 
A5.6  Duplicating machine                          1        10            10             #              4              "                   "          "           I
A5.7  Copying machine                              1        20            20             #             10              "                   "         "            "            "           "
A5.8  Survey and drafting equipment              Set        60            60             #             10              "                   I          "           "            I            I           T
(see A1.10)
A5.9  Camp equipment                               5         #             10            #              #              "                   I          I           I            I           "            "
A5.10 Ceiling fan                                 12         #             10            #              4              "                   "          I           "            I           IT          IT
A5.11 Air conditioner                             10        10            70             4             40              "                   I          I           "            T           "I
A5.12 Water cooler                                 4         4             10            4              4              I                   I          "           I            I           T            I
A5.13 Refrigerator                                 2        10             10            #              #              "                   "          T           TI           "            I           IT
A5.14 Office furniture                             -         -              -           60              -           RP                     I          "           I            "           "            "
(Agency Headquarters)
A5.15 Typewriter                                  14         #            50             4             10           PS(E)                  II        IT          IT           II           ,,          ..
A5. 16 Hand calculator                             7         #            20             #              4              "                   "          "           I            "           I            I
A5.17 Electronic calculator                       14         4             10            #              4              I                   I          "           I            I           "            I
(Vehicles)
A5.18 4 x 4 SWB
-HQ                                        4        100              -          400              -           RP                     "          "                        II          II
- Technical assistance                      4       100             -           400              -           RP                                        " "  II         II                      3/80
A5.19 2 x 4 LWB pickup
-HQ                                         4       100              -          400              -            RP
- Technical assistance                      4       100              -          400              -           RP                     "          T           I            I           T
A5.20 6.5 m ton General transport (HQ)             5       180              -          900              -           RP
A5.21 6.5 m ton General transport (Agency)   7             180              .        1,260              -RP                                I         "            "            "           I          4/80
Subtotal                                                      340        3,820            170
Footnotes page 14 .
July 16, 1979



Foreign        Local          Taxes
Unit        Total           Total         and         Procurement                               Procurement Schedule 5/
No.                   Item                       Oty      Coat  -/  Coat    2/    Coat  3/          Duties       Method       4/       A            B           C           0D           E           F
------('000 Kyats) -----
A6 EQUIPMENT REHABILITATION
Spares as required                            -          -        7,400           1,270         1,920         OEM                 -------------------- Not Applicable ----------------------
Subtotal                                                    7,400           1,270          1,820
A7 STATE SAWMILL BENABILITATION
A7.1   Industrial diesel engine 220 HP           13         90        1,200              70            600         ICB (B)             9/79       10/79      12/79         7/80         3/80       9 80
A7.2   Circular saw grinder with                 16         40           580             30            290            "
2.5 hP motor
A7.3   AC generating set 20 KW                    9         80        1,360              80            680           "
A7.4   72" Circular saw headrig with              5         70           340             20            170            "                 "
carriage
A7.5   Log washing pump, 3 UP motor              16         40          640              30            320
A7.6   48" Circular saw benches                   6         10            80              #             40           "                  "           "
A7.7   3 ton chain block with beam                1         10            10              #              #           "                  "           "
A7.8   Log hauling winch                          1         30            30              #             20            "                 "                       "           "
A7.9   Double drum winches with 40 BP            16        120        1,960             100            980            "                              '
diesel, cables, main blocks
and rail blocks
A7.10  Sawshop equipment, hammers                 3         10            20               4            10
anvils, setting gauges                   sets
Subtotal equipment                                            6,220             310          3,110
A7.11  72" Circular headrig saws                 14          #            40               4            20         ICB (B)             ---------------------- As required -----------------------
A7.12  48" Circular headrig saws                 50          #            20               4            10            "----------------------                                  -----------------
A7.13  36" Circular headrig saws                 50          #            20               #            10            "                ----------------------           "     -_- _- __- _________
A7.14  Miscellaneous:  small tools,               -          -           140              10            70         PS (B)
files, belting, bearings
grinding wheels, etc.
Subtotal spares                                                  220              10           110
Subtotal including installation                               6,440              780         3,220
A8  HIRE MILLS SPAFE PARTS
A8.1   Industrial diesel engine                   6         90           550              30           280         ICB (B)              ---------------------- As required -----------------------
A8.2   72" Circular headrig saws                 14           #           40               4            20            "----------------------                                  -----------------------
A8.3   48" Circular saws                         42          i            20                            10            "----                                  -----------------------
A8.4   36" Circular saws                         42          #            10               i            10            "--------------------_                                   -----------------------
A8.5   Miscellaneous:  small tools,               -    -                 140              10            70            "-------____--___-___-_____-_-__-___________
files, belting, bearings etc.                                     _              _              _
Subtotal                                                         760              40           380                                                                                         x
July 16, 1979
Footnotes page 14.



Foreign         Local          Taxes
Unit        Total           Total          and          Procureme.nt                               Procurement Schedule 5/
No.                    Ttem                       Qt       Cost 1/    Cost        2/   Cost  3/        Duties       Method        4/       A            B           C            D           F            F
------------ ('000 Kyats) ------------------
A.9  NEW HARDWOOD MILLS
(Equipoent list for one 12,000 H
ton input mill)
Sawmill
A9.1  Vertical bandmill 72" R.H. 100 HP             1         350         350              20            180          ICB (B)            10/79        12/79         2/80        4/80         5/80       11/80
A9.2  Carriage 24' x 5' x 60" opening               1         380         380              20           190
(4 blocks). Manoally operated
index on carriage, air dogging.
A9.3  Hydraolic drive 75 HP                         1         120          120             10             60              "
A9.4  Rails                                       set          10           10              #             10              "
A9.5  Log turner, air ram, 4 lifting             2 selo        90         190              10             90
arms and controls 10 IIP
A9.6  Log deck 19'  10 IIP                          1         120          120             10             60              "                "            "            "
A9.7  Liverolls 59', 4 ejector arms                 5         110          560             30            280
25 HP
A9.8  Liverolls 28'  10 lIP                         2          40           90              8             40
A9.9  Vertical bandmill 54" LH with                 1         620         620              30            310              "                 '           "            "            "
20' carriage, 4 blocks 75 IIP
A9.10 Sawn lumber transfer chains                  2           60          110             10             60
34', 10 HP
A9.11 Green chain 200', 30 HP                       1         370          370             20            180              "                 "           "            "            "
A9.12 Butting saw 25 HP                             3          30           80              #             40              "
A9.13 Firewood conveyor 10 HP                       1         300          300             20            150              "                 "           "
A9.14 Sawdust conveyor 10 HP                        1         350          350             20            180
A9.15 Air compressor 5 HP                           2          50          100             10             50
A9.16 Centrifugal pump 20 gpm, 15 HP                2          10           10              #             10
A9.17 48" vertical band resaw RH,                   2         190          390             20            190
power feed with roundabout, 100 HP
A9.18 48" band resaw slab, power feed,              1         160          160             10             80
50 HP
A9.19 Log washing pump 3 HP                         1          40           40              #             20              "                 "            "           .            .
A9.20 4 Saw multiedger, circular,                   1         330          330             10            170
inserted teeth, 48" opening,
I fixed/3 moveable saws.
Airshift. 6" cut depth, shadow
lines, 150 HP
A9.21 Electric chain saws                           2          10           20              #             10              "
A9.22 550 KVA transformer                           1          50           50              '             30
A9.23 Tranomission contractors                   I set        150          15O             10             80
A9.24 LT takeoff cable                              -          40           40              #             20              "                 '                        .
A9.25 LT control cubicle and cable                  -         190          190             10             90
Subtotal                                                    5,140            260          2,570
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979



Foreign        Local          Taxes
Unit        Total           Total         and          Procurement                              Procurement Schedule  5/
No.                   Item                       Qhr      Cost 1/    Cost    2/    Cost  3/          Dutiee      Method        4/      A            B           C           D            E           F
- ----------- ('000) -              ------------
Sawshop
A9.26  Side dressing machine for saw              1        60            60             4             30           ICB (B)           10/79        12/79        2/80        4/80         5/80       11/80
blades 2 3/4"-14 1/4" width
including motor protective switches,
2 grinding wheels, guide and lamp
A9.27  Saw supporting stand                       1        20            20            #              10                                "           "           "            ,- ,.
A9.28  Stellite tipping machine                   1        40            40             #             20              "                 "
A9.29  Saw stretcher roller, levelling            2        90            90                           40"                                                                     
block for 72" bandmill x 12" width
also back gauge, tension gauge,
hammers etc.
A9.30  Saw stretcher roller for 48"               2        90           180            10             90              "                 "           "           " ,,
band resaw x 6" width
A9.31  Automatic bandsaw sharpener for            3        50           150            10             80              "                "            "           " , .
72" RHd bandsaw. (6"-12" width,
15 gauge,, hook 30 , gullet 718")
A9.32  Welding set. Oxy/acetylene torches,    1            20            20             4             10                                            ,           .
hoses, regulators etc. Goggles,
single phase grinding wheel
230 V, portable.
A9v,33  Guillotine                                1        10            10      #         #                          "                " '                                  "
A9.34  Automatic grinder for sharpening           1        20            20             4              #              '                             '                                                ,'
30" cross cut saws                                              _                            _                                                                                                     u
Subtotal                                                  590             30           290
Mechanical Workshop
A9.35  Welding set, bricks, hoses,                I )                                                              ICB (B) or                       '
regulators, goggles                         )                                                              PS (B)
A9.36  Portable grinding machine                  1 ) I                                                                                            "            "
A9.37  Pedestal drill 3 hP                        I
A9.38  Power hacksaw 2.5 HP                       1 ) I.
A9.39  Forge                                      1
A9.40  10 ton chain block                         2 )                                                                                              "            "           "
A9.41  10 ton hydraulic jack                      2 )                                                                                  "                        "           "
A9.42  Miscellaneous tools, tool kits,                                                                                                 , ..
wire slings, pulleys, extractors,
etc.
Subtotal                                                  100             10            50
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                    m ,.



Foreign         Local          Taxes
Unit        Total           Total          and          Procurement                               Procurement Schedulo  5/
N.,                    Iter                       21x      CostS/    Cost    2f    Cost  3/            Duties      Method        4/       A            B           C            SD                       F
-____ _   (T'O00 iyats) -          ----------
Electrical Workshop
A9.43  Small tools volt meters,  eggers,                                                                              ICB (B) or        10/79        12/79         2/80        4/80         5/80        11/80
tools kits, hand electric drills                                                                             pS (B)               "            "
(1/2" and 1") miscellaneous
electrical equipment, blowers etc.
Subtotal                                        -            40             0               20                              "                         ,
Subtotal equipment                                              5,860           300            2,920
Mechanical Handling
A9.44  Front end loader a/                         1         610          610            30              300         REC-ICB (B)          -            -            -           -
A9.45  Fork lift truck 3 ton                       2         180          350            20              180          EEC-ICB (B)
A9.46  Straddle truck                              2         170          340            20              170          EEC-ICB (B)         -            -            _           -
A9.47  Tow truck 2 m ton                           1          70            70            0                1O         PS (B)              -          12/79         2/80        4/80         5/80       11/80
A9.48  Trailers Sm ton                            12          10          120             -               10          PS (B)
A9.49  4 x 2 vehicle                               1         100            -           lOO               -           RP                  -            -            -           -
Subtotal handling                                         1,490           310              670
Office Equipent
A9.50  Office equipment                                                    -             30               -           Rp                  _            _            _
Subtotal                                                      _            30
Subtotal equipment                                        T,350           640            3,590
Subtotal equipment                                        7,350         1,165            3,590
including instailation
Subtotal equipment and                                   14,700         2,330            7,100
installation 2 mills
Coimissioning Cossumable Spares
A9.51  150 ft coil 12 1/4" x 15 gauge              4          10           20           #                 10          PS (B)             ----------------------- As required -----------------------
saweteel
A9.52  150 ft coil 8 1/4" x 18 gauge               6        #              10           #                 10 o                                                     a            u ,
sawsteel
A9.S53  30" circular butting sawblades            18        i              10           S                S              "                 "            "           "
A9854  Miscellaneous saw bits,                     -        -              30           f                 10
grinding wheels, etellite
oxygen, acetylene
A9. 55  Treatment Chemicale
(i)  5,500 litres bensylhesa-              -        -             100            10               50
b chloride
(ii)  50 Kg sodium pants-                            - t                         S                #                                ,            .
.hlorophenate
A9.56  Miscellaneous maintennce                             -             -             140              -            RBp 
supplies
A9.57  Miesellameous office supplies                        -             -              50              -            RBP                              "            "           "            "
Subtotal .mmesuaable spares                                 170           200               sO
Subtotal new hardwood mills                              14,870         2,530            7,260                                                                                           '
A/ Spess as A.2.2
b/ Specs as C.l.D.
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979



Forig.         Loca          Taxe
Unit        Total          Total          and         Proce. eotPrcurmet    Shchdule  5/
No.                   Item                      j4ty     Cost I/    Cost    21    Cost  3/         luties       Method       4/       5           1C                                   E 
----:--('OIl k'yats)           -  ------
B. TIM4BER CORPORATION, RANGOON
3.1  TEAK SAWILMSL REHARITLTTATION A/
Okkyin Sawill Eouipaent
84.1  48" Beand resas, pewerfeed                  6        170        1,000           50             300        ICB (B)              3/80        4/80        6/80        8/80         s/so        3/01
BS.2  Straight 11am edger                        12        580        2,160          110          1,080"
31.3  Stelliting/side dressing machine           h          50          320           20             160                              ""
31.4  Stelliting stands                          6         20           120           10             60"
BSA5  Stellite tipping mahine                     6         40          250           50             120 
81.6  Swing cros  cut saw                        10         20          250           50             120'
31.7  Saw dust blowe                              1        120          120           20              60'""
BS.8  Sew dust conveyer                           1        130          150           80              80'""
81.9  Firewood conveyor                           1        120          120           60              60"'"
31.10 Lighting                                   -          -           -             40                        R P                               -           -                 -                 5181
31.11 Wiring                                      -         -           120           40              60        PS (B)                -          4/80        6/80        8/80          -          5/8!
B1.12 Ante bandsw grinder                         3         80          260           20             130        ICB (B)              3/00        4/00        6/80        8/30         9/80        5/81
31.13 Bemdoaw strtether rolls                     3         80          220           10             110''
131.14 Baedaw  sage and shaper                    3         20           50           10              20"""'
BI.15 Neesseriog he...b                           4         20           20                           10"'
31.16 Generting equipment                         -         -         4,000          600           2,000        ICB                     
31.17 Miscellaneou  equipment-                              -           220           90             110        ICR (3)/PS (N)        ""
31.18 Spares and installati,m-                                        1,880          450             940"                                          '
Subtotal equipment                                            11,240         1,620          5,620
Okkyin Transport and Handling lquipment
31.19 60 HF Wheel tractor                         2        110          -220                                    R P                   ----                                                       12/80
31.20 nrailer                                     2         50          -20-                                    "                                 *,
R1.21 Dueqs truk                                  2        240          -480                                                          "'..
31.22 6.5 m ton truck                             5        180          -900                                    ''
31.23 3.5 a ton truck                             3        120          -360                         -          "'
31.24 Fork lift truck                             4        120          460           20             230        ICB (B)            SI/P9         1/81        3/80        5/80         6/80       12/80
81.25 Straddle truck                              3        170          510           20             260            "1               *' 
31.26 Spares                                      -         -           250          300              70        5CB (3/PS (B)-------------A.a required------------
Subtotal vehielee                                              1_,220       2,330             560
3.2   SPARES AS REQUIRAED                                             1,680           80             840        ICB/PS/(B)/OEMP        ------------As kequird ------------
Suhtota1 teak mill spares                                      1,680            80            840
Subtotal teak sawmill r-habilitatios                                 14,140        4,080           7,020
a/ This equipment list is indicative only anod will be revised after further study during pruject iopl-aetatio.  Physical contingencles of 20% oequipment base costs are sdditional.
Footnots page 14.
July 16, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                             9



Foreign        Local         Taxes
Unit       Total           Total         and         Procurement                             Procurement Schedule  5/
No.                  Item                      Qty      Cost 1/   cost        2/   Cost   3/    Duties        Method       4/      A           B           C           D           E           F
-(-----   '000 K7yats)----------
B.3 MARKETING AND MILLING DEPT
(Indicative only)
B3.1  Office supplies
B3.2  Duplicating machine                       4
B33.3  Plain paper copier                        5
B33.4  Internal telephone system                 1
B3.5  Typewriter (English)                     20
B33.6  Typewriter (Burmese)                     4
B3.7  Electric typewriter (English)              3
B3.8  Financial pocket calculation               3
B33.9  Water cooler                             4
B33.10 Fan                                      16
B3.11 Electric stencil                          2
B3.12 Calculating machine (hand)               30
B3.13 Calculating machine (electric)            4
B3.14 Miscellaneous equipment                    -
B3.15 Journals and market research data          -
Subtotal                                                        670            20           310        PS                                             By end 1980
B3    2 x 4 Inspection vehicle                  4       100            -            400             -         RP                    -           -           -           -           -         12/80
Subtotal M and M Dept.                                          670           420           310
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979



Foreign        Local        Taxes
Unit       Total          Total         and         Procurement                             Procurement Schedule
No.                  Item                      qt2     Cost I/    Cost       2/   Cost  3/      Duties     Method        4/      A           B          C           D           E           F
-------------- ('000 Kyats) ----------------
C.  FOREST DEPARTMENT - PU (FD)                                                                                                 See Working Paper C8 - Plantations - for detailed 5 year
procurement schedule.
C.1 VEHICLES
Project Headquarters
Cl.1  4 x 4 Inspection vehicle                  2      100            -            200            -        RP
C1.2  4 x 4 Pickup                              1      100            -            100            -        RP
Regional Offices
CI.4  4 x 4 Inspection vehicle                  3      100            -            300            -         RP
C1.5  4 x 4 Pickup                              6      100            -            600            -         RP
C1.6  6.5 ton G.P. truck                       18      180            -          3,240            -        hP
Plantation Centers
C1.7  4 x 4 Inspection vehicles                18      100            -          1,800            -        RP
C1.8  60 HP %heel tractor al                   18      110            -          1,980            -         RP
C0.9  1 1/2 ton trailer                        18       10            -            180            -         RP
C1.10 300 gal water bowser                     18       20            -            290            -         RP
Subtotal vehicles                                               -         8,690             -
C2    HEAVY EQUIPNENT
C2=1  140 HP Crawler tractor                    4      650          2,600          130          1,300       ICB (B)
C2.2  80 UP Crawler tractor                     6      310          1,860           90            930       ICB (B)
C2.3  85 UP Road grader                         5      150            750           40            380       ICB
C2.4 Wheel loader, 2 cu yd                      1      610            610           30            300       ICB (B)
C2.5  Tipper truck, 4 cu yd                     5      200            -          1,000            -         RP
C2.6  Rotary slasher                           14       30            420           20            210       PS
C2.7  6.5 m ton fuel bowser                     4      210            -            840            -         RP
Subtotal heavy equipment                                     6,240        2,150          3,120
a/ Specs as for A9.47.
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979



Foreign        Local        Taxes
Unit      Total          Total         and         Procurement                            Procurement Schedule 5/
No.                  Item                     QtX       Cost I/   Cost _ 2/    Cost  3/         Duties     Methods      4/       A           B          C          __           E           F
_  _______--- '000 Kyats) --------_-_-- -
C3  TECHNICAL. ANDo OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                                                            See Working Paper C8S  Plantations- for detailed 5 year
procurement schedule.
Headquarters and Regional Offices
C3.1 Office equipment
- Drawing office equipment             4
- Electronic ¢alculator (hand)         8
- Electronic calculator (desk)         8
- Typewriters                          I
- Telescope                            8
- Binoculars                           8
- Planimeter                           4
- Camera a/                            4
- Projector a/                         4
- Increment borers                     8
- Map measurer                         8
- Clinometer                           4
- Telescope equipped survey compass 16
- Hand compass                        16
-Tapes                                 8
- Pocket stereoscope                   8                                                                                                                                                  o
- Mirror stereoscope                   4
- Tneodolite and attachments           I
190        10            100        PS (B)
Plantation Centers
C3.2 Office Equipment
- Drawing office equipment            18
- Electronic calculator               18
- Typewriter                          18
- Clinometer                          72
- Tape                                72
- Prismatic compass with tripods    18
- Soil science field testing kit    18
- Caliper                             36
- Earth auger                         36
- Increment borer                     36
- Planimeter                          18
- Pocket stereosope                   36
- Knapsack sprayer (motorized)        36
- Knapsack sprayer (hand)             36                                                                                                                                              >
- Refrigerator (seed storage)         18
Total Office                       80,000
Subtotal                                                         460         20            230       PS (B)                                                                          a,
a7 For record keeping and instruction purposes,
Footnotes page 14.
July 16, 1979



Foreign       Local         Taxes
Unit       Total          Total         and         Procurement                             Procurement Schedule ./
No.                  Item                     Qty      Cost 1/    Cost    2/    Cost  3/        Duties     Method       4/       A           B          C           D           E           F
-______----- ('000 Kyats) ----------------
See Working Paper C8 - Plantations - for detailed 5 year
C3.3  Other office and admiistrationprceenshdu.
equipment                                                                     90           -         RP                   procurement schedule.
Subtotal office equipment                                      650           940           320
C4 OTRER EQUIPMENT
C4.1  Workshop tools                            3       110          330            20           160
C4.2  Plantation water supply (village)        18        10          120            10            60
C4.3  Electrical supply                        18       140        1 570            80           780
2,710           280        1,340        PS
C4.4  Chainsaws                                54                    160            10            80
C4.5  Cross cut saws 5-6 ft                1,440                     290            10           140
04.6  Axes 2.5 lb                          1,440         #50                                      20
C4.7  Files                                    -         -            30                          10
C4.8  Sprinkler systen                          2       80           160            20            90
C4.9  Diesel engine                            10       10            -            130            -         RP
C5  SPARE PARTS                                                    2,300           980         1,150
C6   =-CELIANEOUS OFFICE AND NURSERY                               1,500            80           750        PS
SUPPLIES, SEEDS, LIBRARY WATERALS
JOURNALS ETC.
Subtotal plantations                                          13,400        13,120        6,680
Footnotes page 14,
July 16, 1979
I5 0s t
aQ a N
ID' " 



Foreign        Local        Taxes
Unit       Total          Total         and         Procurement                             Procurement Schedule 5/
No.                  Item                      Qtx     Cost !    Cost       2/=  Cost   3/    Duties       Method        4/      A           B           C          D           E           F
--___________- ('000 Kyats) ----------- -
D. TIMBER CORPORATION/BURMA RAILWAYS
D.1  WAGON SPARES
Dl.l  Set vacuum brakes for log wagon          190      10          2,020          100          800         ICB                9/79       10/79        12/79      2/80        3/80        6/80
D1.2  Set bearings for log wagon               190                    480           40          200         ICB
Subtotal wagons                                               2,500          140       1,000
D.2 LOCOMOTIVE SPARES
02.1 Maintenance spares for 5 years
per locomotive                             5     800          3,980          300       1,580         ICB/OEM             9/79      10/79        12/79        2/80       3/80        6/80
Subtotal locomotives                                          3,980          300       1,580
D.3 COMMUNICATIONS
D3.1  SSB radio for Pyinmana-                    5      10             50                        20         PS                  _         10/79        12/79       _          3/80        9/80
Taungdwingyi line
Subtotal communications                                          50                        20
Subtotal railways                                             6,530         440        2,600
1/ (i) Excluding taxes and duties; (ii) CIF Rangoon (foreign) or exfactory (local).
2/ Directly incurred foreign exchange only.
3/ Excluding taxes and duties.
4/ Procurement method:
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
EEC-ICB  Competitive Bidding restricted to bidders eligible under EEC Special Action Credit
PS       Prudent Shopping
EEC-PS   Prudent Shopping restricted to bidders eligible under EEC Special Action Credit
RP       Reserved Procurement
OEM      Original equipment manufactured
(B)      As a postscript, item bulked with others to facilitate procurement
5/ A - Specifications and bidding documents forwarded to IDA
B - Invitation to Bid
C - Bid Opening
D - Evaluation Report to IDA
E - Contract Award
F - Delivery to Project Area
6/ Spare parts: 25% for imported equipment, 10-25% for locally manufactured equipment, except as noted.
* Specifications agreed by IDA
# Cost less than Kyats 5,000
NB Totals may not add due to rounding
July 16, 1979



-93 -                             ANNEX 3
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
IDA Disbursements Against Local Expenditures for Teak Plantation Establishment
1.        In the proposed project, IDA would reimburse costs of direct local
expenditures for teak plantation establishment. This would provide a measure
of control and should maintain and improve planting standards. The reimburse-
ments would cover about 100% of the direct costs of surveying, land clearing,
burning, staking, planting, replanting and three weedings. About 85% of
these direct costs are daily wages paid to the approximately 1,700 taungya
families at 18 plantation centers, with the remaining 15% covering hand tools
and materials such as stakes. Plantings made from 1979/80 to 1984/85 would
be eligible for reimbursement up to a maximum of 29,500 acres total.
2.        To ensure that plantings have been properly established, IDA
disbursements would be made after the PD(FD) had inspected all plantings.
Inspection would be made in December of each year of planting, or about 8
months after planting. The PD(FD) would submit a report to the FD indicating
the number of acres which PU(FD) had satisfactorily established based on the
following criteria:
(a) Stand: initial planting would be approximately 560 per acre, subject
to change for silvicultural reasons.
(b) Survival: a minimum survival of 380 seedlings and replantings per
acre by December 1 of the year in which they were planted.
(c) Growth: average growth rate of the stand should have been of a
satisfactory standard.
(d) Land preparation: the land should have been properly cleared with
roads in place and maintained.
3.        Disbursements would be made against the planting statements made by
PD(FD), which had been certified by the Director General, FD, and submitted
to IDA by FD promptly after each inspection. PU(FD) would maintain full
accounts indicating the expenditures incurred to establish the teak plantations
under the project and these accounts would be available for inspection by
supervision missions and would be subject to audit as part of PU(FD) and FD
accounts.
4.        IDA would disburse the equivalent of US$50 per acre for each new
acre up to a maximum of 29,500 acres satisfactorily established under the
project. Plantations which had been established unsatisfactorily or which had
been established outside the project area would nol: be eligible for disburse-
ment.



-94-                              ANNEX 4
Page 1
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
List of Related Documents and Data Available on the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A.1 IBRD, Burma, Appraisal of Forestry Projects
Report No. 374a-BA
May 24, 1974
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1 Burma: Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project
Project Preparation Report.
Government of Burma - Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
(i) Main Report
September 1978
(ii) Technical Annexes - Timber Corporation
September 1978
(iii) Technical Annexes - Plantations and Forest Department
September 1978
(iv) Supplementary Information
December 1978
B.2 Burma, Forest Feasibility Studies
Prepared by Sandwell Management Consultants, Limited, comprising:
X4040/1    Study Background, February 10, 1978
X4040/2    Vol. 1  Forest Resources - Main Report, February 10, 1978
Vol. 2 Forest Resources - Annexes
X4040/3    The Existing Forest Products Industry, February 10, 1978
X4040/4    Mechanical Wood Products Markets, February 10, 1978
X4040/5    Pulp and Paper Markets, February 10, 1978
X4040/6    Forest Industry Development, February 10, 1978
X4040/7    Timber Corporation Organization and Management,
October 31, 1978
X4040/8    Timber Extraction Studies, December 31, 1978
X4040/9    Teak Veneer Mill Feasibility Study, October 31, 1978
X4040/10   Bassein Integrated Sawmill Study (partial study-abandoned
due to insufficient resource; resource data available)



- 95 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 2
X4040/11   Central Burma Hardwood Sawmill
Vol. 1 Wood Resources Study - Main Report, May 31, 1978
Vol. 2 Wood Resources Study - Annexes
X4040/12   Central Burma Hardwood Sawmill Feasibility Study,
July 4, 1978
C.   Selected Working Papers
C.1   Forest Resource in Burma and in the Project Area
C.2   Teak and Hardwood Extraction in the Project Area 1/
C.3   Radio Communications in the Project Area 1/
C.4   Road Construction in the Project Area 1/
C.5   Rehabilitatior of Mechanical Equipment in the Project Area 1/
C.6   Mechanical Maintenance in the Project Area 1/
C.7   Sawmilling 1/
(i) Hardwood Sawmill Rehabilitation in the Project Area
(ii) Spares for Private Mills in the Project Area
(iii) New Hardwood Mill Construction in the Project Area
(iv) Okkyin Sawmill, Rangoon, Rehabilitation
C.8   Plantation Program in the Project Area 2/
C.9   Railway Rolling Stock Rehabilitation 1/
C.10 Technical Assistance Terms of Reference
C.ll Marketing Study Terms of Reference
C.12 Economic Analysis, Financial and Economic Prices and Marketing
C.13 Financial Analysis
C.14 Equipment Specifications
1/ Physical and financial data.
2/ Physical, financial and economic data.



I



BAUTA47'                                                                      0                                           1050
1lP#EA   f        5                                                                  r.J      > 
RABIADDSV 5                                                 \ NDIA
K..               Y5\ 'T                                                 ..  '\'            ?7\,
. 0g J ; PECDPLE'S--) r'   s                     8               KACHIN j,        '   tCHINA
) > aDEM. REB>' 1. 6                                      \._N-n STATE | !C
T V    L A ND ,                  2 6 -     j    /                                                                      2(.
r~~~~~~~~~                                                                  <
DEMOCRA:e /'   1h.  (TI CH~VJET~L                                    To0on  0T   V 
/                         LA'-'    ,,       /  ,4K~~~~~~~~~~~o      o' ,, 
5'~vakvu -,  5  / 
CHIN STATE
V   K-                                                   1-'1
ARAKAN'\~'  r!
Ko"ok\o S TAT          )                  '    AA
K ... k.,.p,                                  K-)12
|'   .,    BURMAFOETY:1-AS PEGU, YOMA PROJECTN                                    "12                     THLN
SU<MA FORESTRY I (IDA FINANCES)ON
EAST'PGU YOMA PROJECTD
BURMA FORESTRY 01- EAST PEGS  YOMA PROJECT
40                                                                                                                                      1400  0   00) 
BUM  FOESR I (ID  FINANCED
MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
R    hVERS
VISIONAL RSOUNARIES                                                            10005     MN                 DANOKOI'
T EN AS S ERIIV
STATE)
100 GILSOETEBS       -.i-                                                                    EDT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
150                         30004 0
O       00       150     1SO       200     250                                                                                         > ~~0' 
M LES                                                                                                                r-
I950                                             99                                               1






F- -       -                                                                         _     _Zo   -9 --
NW,9                                   A~ IN                                                                       UR       
< 2 c u INA t ,, * BU RMA
,T                                                          9 ,+g  <_iX                         FORESTRY I
Ku39JLM0 KgOZW<o                                                          +   ^  EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
A  o'RODE.$
X   g   < 50  DeEF   g  -  -                                                         -   -
rTHAILANO                                                                                               El  .TH  C OR=REA.FL RO /5
| :       F \ t  / LDEMCX RAIC |                                94C NR,>,   urSFEMAE/A                        - _   /0 F9E ROADS (ALL UE10/1flE
J  A .  { ,!  - SKRAFAF0CF79                                                                                     F   ROROSRED P175050OR. ALSO
-F-~~~~~~~~~~N
_  ,   ./            .3         --                                                                          A   ER AR NO voRoo )    S _PH AE
- A)1t ..2-  |K. *PU 'E                                       X                                                11 IGER AFLT DO I
A    RRAR   097 -A  1TA'E
L.%ST FLG 00.R   0/FXS LTYU OOD  UILL
9f. -                                     {             ,             1)        _t                       FORESI LESE4RCo  SRIIIUTE
99'                                                                                                                     B AIE ADRKRHO/
YAMETHIN           .                                                                             $ c7 WORKSOP 2F-
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'P
29 NM/WA     -)< 4                     TEINIIONAL  --ARIES
' _2S  X;   /                          'F.-, T  /MANA
74                                                     -          F,7  SQu        PYiNMANA4       t      
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~                                                 ~             ~ ~                         ~             ~~ - .8 .  ,~OI 
.7_                /   -000                                                          F      LET I.        
T'.,GYIPA., 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~ T
'S     NORTH-
TOUNGTUNO5¢7                                               \  O-
C  To Arane E . iRSOUTH 
\ TOUJNGOO                                                    - _=-  TER.DKWIN 
7                                                                 S.. 9  ' /U    To74 4Goo --
SOUTH  TOUNGOO         '                |-
NORTH PEGU
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"I
0 .1     4                                                                G A    EMU
S                74->1 \utr R   > '  SOUTH PEGU
II' t   .2 X               I WJl/x9xxx~xd Dm3 xxd  , U x9
I  I  I  f Iod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/xL"xFx7fonIe/Fxa/x4xxFx.   m49(   
L~ ~ ~ ~       ~~~~~          x 7 FF    F7F~ s9   7xM| o x'cep7mcoxxxx tmd 7                                    |        97\x ,



