Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
Report No. P-261 1 -BA
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
JULY 24, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 1977, the Burmese kyat has been officially
valued at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and
consequently its value floats relative to other currencies.
The following exchange rate is used throughout this report
except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00        =    Kyat (K) 6.7
K 1.00         =    US$0.149
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hoppus foot (HF)            =    1.273 cubic feet (ft3) true
geometric measure
1 hoppus ton (H ton)               50 HF in round logs or
=    50 ft3 of converted lumber, or
=    63.75 ft3 true geometric
measure, or
=    1.805 cubic meter (m3) round-
wood under bark
1 metric ton (mt)                 2205 pounds
1 pound (lb)                =    0.45 kilograms (kg)
1 mile (mi)                 =    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square miles (sq mi)            2.589 square kilometers (sq km)
1 hectare (ha)              =    2.47 acres (ac)
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAC     -  Annual Allowable Cut (the annual amount of
wood which may be harvested from a certain area)
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
CC      -  Construction Corporation
ECC     -  Equipment Control Committee
FD      -  Forest Department
FFS     -  Forest Feasibility Studies
FRI     -  Forest Research Institute
GOB     -  Government of Burma
MAF     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
PU(TC)  -  Project Unit (Extraction and Sawmilling)
PU(FD)  -  Project Unit (Plantations)
TC      -  Timber Corporation
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFHCIALL USE ONLY
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
Credits and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
Beneficiaries:          The Timber Corporation (TC) and the Forest Depart-
ment (FD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.
Amount:                 US$35.0 million equivalent (IDA) and US$8.0
million equivalent (EEC) Special Action Credit.
Terms:                   Standard IDA (for both Credits).
Cofinanciers:           GovernLment of Finland - US$1.4 million equivalent,
on a grant basis, to finance the foreign exchange
cost of the technical assistance component.
UNDP -- US$200,000 equivalent, on a grant basis, to
finance the cost of overseas training.
Relending Terms:        The Government would relend about US$39.1 million
(US$31.1 million of the proposed IDA credit and the
entire proceeds of the EEC Special Action Credit of
about US$8 million) to the TC at 9% per annum for 15
years including five years grace, with the TC bearing
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:          The project would:  (i) increase teak and hardwood
exports by expanding primary forest extraction capacity
and improving transportation facilities; (ii) increase
domestic supply of sawn hardwood by expanding sawmilling
capacity; (iii) augment future timber supply through
teak plantation establishment and large-scale trials of
other species; and (iv) provide staff training and
technical assistance. At full development, the net
annual incremental forest output is estimated at about
72,000 Hoppus (H) tons of teak and 220,000 H tons of
hardwood, valued at about US$90 million after process-
ing. The project would generate additional direct
employment for about 3,000 workers and create new
permanent employment for about 1,700 landless farm
families. The rate of return to the economy is esti-
mated at over 100%. The project involves no special
risks beyond possible renewed insurgency activity in
the project areas.
This d~ocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofRcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                      US$ Million Equivalent /a
Local  Foreign   Total
Major Categories
Civil works                        6.1    0.9        7.0
Road construction equipment         1.7    3.2       5.0
Extraction equipment               13.6   25.4      39.0
Administration and export
equipment                        0.5    0.9        1.5
Equipment rehabilitation            0.5    1.1       1.6
Rehabilitation of hardwood
mills (equipment)                0.6    1.1        1.7
Construction of hardwood
mills (equipment)                 1.5    2.2       3.7
Rehabilitation of teak mills
(equipment)                      1.4    2.4        3.8
Railwagon rehabilitation            0.4    1.0       1.4
Plantation equipment                1.8    3.1       5.0
Plantation establishment            2.3    0.1       2.4
Technical assistance               0.3    1.2        1.5
Overseas training                    -     0.2       0.2
Total Base Cost            30.9   42.8      73.8
Contingencies
Physical                            1.8    2.5       4.3
Price                               3.8    4.5       8.3
Total Project Cost /b    36.6   49.7        86.4
Financing Plan:                                      US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
IDA                           1.7    33.3    35.0
EEC                            -       8.0      8.0
Government of Finland          -       1.4      1.4
UNDP                           -       0.2      0.2
Government of Burma          34.9      6.8    41.8
Total                      36.6    49.7    86.4
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.
/b Including about US$20.9 million for taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated                                      US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:        IDA FY       1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    1985
IDA
Annual        0.4   13.5   15.4    4.1    1.1       0.5
Cumulative   0.4   13.9   29.3   33.4   34.5    35.0
EEC
Annual        0.4    5.4    2.2
Cumulative   0.4    5.8    8.0
Rate of Return:         Over ]L00%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 2463-BA, dated July 17, 1979.
Maps:                   IBRD No. 14207 and 14235R






INTERNATtLONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of US$35 million, on standard IDA terms,
and a proposed EEC Special Action Credit, equivalent to about US$8 million, in
accordance with the agreement of May 2, 1978, between the Association and the
European Economic Community, to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma,
to help finance a second forestry project in East Pegu Yoma.  The Government
of Finland will finance, on a; grant basis, the foreign exchange cost of the
technical assistance component of the proposed project, about US$1.4 million
equivalent. The UNDP will finance the overseas training component of the
proposed project, about US$200,000 equivalent. A large portion of the proceeds
of the IDA credit (about US$31.1 million equivalent) and the entire proceeds
of the credit from the EEC Special Action Account (about US$8.0 million
equivalent) would be relent to the Timber Corporation (TC) for a term of 15
years, including a five-year grace period, at an interest rate of 9% per
annum, with the TC bearing the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Ihe latest economic report entitled, "Burma - Developmient Perform-
ances and Plolicies" (Report No. 2347-BA, March 8, 1979) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 16, 1979. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        World War II and the events leading up to Independence in 1948
devastated the Burmese economy and divided the country politically. As a
result, the 1950s were a period of turbulence. In 1962, parliamentary demo-
cracy was declared a failure, and the assembly and high court were dismissed.
In their place, a Revolutionary Council was formed with General Ne Win as its
Chairman, and the Burmese Socialist Program Party (BSPP) was established as
the only authorized politicaLl party. After eleven years of government by the
Revolutionary Council, a CorLstitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum
in December 1973. Under this Constitution, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's
Assembly) was created with supreme executive, legislative, and judicial
authority.
4.        The guiding philosophy of the present Government, as stated in the
April 1962 document on the Burmese Way to Socialism, is based on a combination
of traditional Burmese values and socialist doctrine. Nationalistic in charac-
ter, its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty-Year Plan, which was
adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented through a succession of
Four-Year Plans. The intent is to fashion a new order for Burma by reorient-
ing the economy to provide adequate food, clothing and shelter for the masses
and to improve the quality of social services.



5.        By and large, the Government has made progress in the attainment
of its social and political objectives. Insurgency is still a problem,
particularly in the hills and border areas, but there is probably greater
territorial control by the Government now than at any time since Independence.
Greater equality in the distribution of economic opportunity has resulted
from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size of holdings among
farm families, and from the nationalization of a number of major economic
activities in trade and industry. At the same time, access of the population
to social services has been expanded, particularly with respect to education
and health facilities.
6.        However, the Government's ability to maintain the social well-being
of the population has been constrained by slow economic growth. Per capita
income at present is about $140 and permits little above basic needs for the
greater part of the population. Urban unemployment is estimated to be over
10% of the labor force, and rural underemployment is substantial.
7.        Burma's economic performance over the last decade and a half
reflects to a significant extent the effects of the particular policies it
adopted to establish economic independence. Capitalism was considered ex-
ploitative and alien. Thus, State control was established over the means of
production and distribution in large parts of the economy and sweeping mea-
sures were taken to reduce the role of the private sector, which was regarded
as being largely synonymous with foreign investments. As public policies and
public sector performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in
private investment and production which resulted, economic growth suffered.
Throughout the period investment levels were low. Gross capital formation
averaged 10-11% of GNP, and even this limited investment was not directed
towards the sectors having the greatest comparative advantage. With invest-
ment in nationalized industry providing the main thrust in the Government's
efforts to reduce the country's reliance on external transactions, such key
directly productive sectors as agriculture, forestry and mining did not
receive due attention. The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated
the problem. They were aimed at keeping the cost of living low for the
masses, but low producer prices discouraged the production of paddy and other
crops and led to dwindling export earnings. Furthermore, State industrial
enterprises were not allowed full recovery of their costs, leading to a
decline in their financial surpluses and hence in domestic savings. An
increasing share of production was either traded in the domestic unofficial
market or illegally exported abroad at a multiple of official prices. In
both cases, income was siphoned off by segments of the private sector with
little opportunity or inclination to invest these resources productively.
The distortions arising from this system were compounded by low official
interest rates and an overvalued exchange rate.
8.        As a result, the increase in value added by the directly productive
sectors of the economy during the 1960s and early 1970s scarcely matched pop-
ulation growth, while export volumes declined for most of the period. Low
export earnings, in turn, reduced the capacity of the economy to import
essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment, leading to increasing
underutilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy and severely
limiting expansion.



- 3 -
9.        In recognition of the practical problems faced in the implementa-
tion of its overall economic policies, the Government began pragmatically in
the early 1970s to evolve a modified approach to the attainment of its basic
objectives. This modified approach has been implemented under the curtailed
First Four Year Plan (1971/72 to 1973/74) and under the recently completed
Second Four Year Plan (1974/75 to 1977/78). Pricing policy still reflects
the desire to provide basic consumer goods cheaply and to prevent inflation,
but it has begun to recognize the role of prices in creating production
incentives and financial viability. Procurement prices of a variety of
agricultural products have been raised to improve the economic position of
the farmer, while others have been decontrolled. The procurement price for
paddy was raised by 150% between 1972 and 1974. It has, however, remained
unchanged since then despite rapid inflation. In industry, the Government
obtained neVr costing schedules in 1976 and increased the ex-factory prices of
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), although the adjustments remain incomplete.
These new costing schedules in principle allow profit margins at the produc-
ing level for the first time. The official exchange rate of the kyat was
devalued by 25% relative to the US dollar in January 1975 and a further 9%
relative to the SDR in 1977, thus partially compensating for the overvaluation.
The interest: rate on savings deposits was raised from 3.5% to 6% in April 1975
and raised again to 8% in November 1977.
10.       In a policy announcement in 1973, the Government reaffirmed its aim
"to transform the economy of Burma from an agricultural to an agriculture-
based industrial country, and thence gradually to an industrial nation." In
the same statement, however, the Government accorded initial priority to
improvements in agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry and mining and
the establishment of consumer goods industries based on the raw material
resources of the country. The percentage of public investment which was
allocated to agriculture (including livestock, fishing, and forestry) and
mining in tlhe Second Four Year Plan (1974/75 to 1977/78) in fact increased
to 33%, compared to 16% during the previous decade.  The share of industrial
investment which was allocated to consumer goods and light industries, how-
ever, was very small.
11.       Managerial and organizational reforms of the SEEs have also been
initiated. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to
enable SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to improve distribution of
their production.  The guideLines introduce greater autonomy in the management
of SEEs, set standards by which their operational performance will be measured,
introduce financial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonus scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance. Although problems remain, particularly in regard
to incentives for operational and investment efficiency, overall production
and financial performance is greatly improved.
12.       A major tax reform was enacted in April 1976.  It included
the introduction of a Commodities and Services Tax and a Profits Tax.
Concurrent revisions in the selling prices of SEEs and their improved
financial performance raised the current revenues of boards and corporations
substantia]ly. The reform thus resulted in increasing Union Government
revenue from 9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1977/78, reversing the decline



- 4 -
in domestic savings and halting the rapid expansion in money supply that
fueled a high rate of inflation. It represented a major turnaround in public
finance and was perhaps the most important achievement of the Government in
recent years.
13.       These actions have undoubtedly improved the conditions for acceler-
ated economic growth and thereby contributed in a positive manner to economic
performance under the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78). GDP during
this period increased by an annual average of 4.8%, compared to 2.7% in the
previous decade. After a decline in 1974/75, agricultural output growth
recovered, mainly because of the favorable weather conditions. The tradi-
tionally important forestry and mining sectors showed mixed performance, but
a welcomed development was the expansion of onshore crude oil production by
an annual average of 8% over the period. With the increased availability
of raw material from the primary sectors, larger imports of intermediate
materials and capital equipment, and improved incentives resulting from the
introduction of the Commercial Guidelines for public enterprises which account
for 50% of gross output, the growth of the processing and manufacturing sector
increased by an annual average of 7%.
14.       After declining in the early 1970s, gross fixed capital formation
is estimated to have almost doubled in real terms during the Second Four
Year Plan, although much of the increase occurred during the last years, and
problems of implementation experienced during the period suggest that these
estimates may be scaled down. Along with the increase in investment, domestic
savings expanded. The improved budgetary position of the Government lessened
its dependence on the banking system, which in turn contributed to a reduction
in the rate of inflation. During 1976 the consumer price index in Rangoon
increased by 22% as compared with 32% in 1975. The consumer price index
declined slightly during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%,
during the first nine months of 1978.
15.       The current value of exports (in US dollars) grew by 10.6% per
annum between 1974/75 and 1977/78, principally as the result of export price
increases for most export products and an expanded volume of rice exports.
The increase in exchange earnings, plus some use of external financing,
enabled imports to rise, although Burma's capacity to import continued
to be insufficient in relation to its needs.
16.       Despite these favorable developments, much remains to be done to
put the economy firmly on the path to sustained, more rapid growth. Further
progress needs to be made in rationalizing the role of agricultural and in-
dustrial prices in the allocation of resources. At present, investment and
production decisions are guided by plan targets rather than by changes in
production and market conditions. In agriculture, the Government established
a Rice Commission to examine the appropriate level of paddy prices and this
inquiry needs to be sustained and broadened. A price adjustment for paddy
needs to be evaluated in terms of inflationary pressures as well as the pro-
duction, government revenue, and foreign exchange effects. In industry,
further adjustments of SEE product prices are required to reflect resource
scarcities more accurately, to stimulate productivity growth, and to generate
surpluses for reinvestment. In external trade, the role and impact of the
exchange rate needs to be kept under continuing review, given the importance



- 5 -
of greater export growth for the development of the domestic economy. Greater
export promotion efforts for minor products must also be made.
17.       A sharpening of sectoral development strategy aimed at rehabili-
tating productive capacity and ensuring more efficient use of the national
resource en(lowment is also retquired. Bank economic reports, for example,
have drawn attention to the wealth of Burma's agricultural resources, their
importance Eor the country's economic development, and the difficulties in
sustaining more rapid growth. Apart from the controlled price system, which
militates against fuller realization of timely adjustments of production to
changes in domestic or export: market conditions, the problems confronting
agriculture include insufficiLent supplies of essential farm inputs, inadequate
transportation facilities and shortages of farm power, basic farm services,
in particular agricultural credit, and extension services. If Burma's agri-
cultural performance is to be improved, intensive and coordinated action will
be necessary to deal with these difficulties. Along with such action, priority
needs to be given to improvements of productivity in existing cultivated areas,
with emphasis on quick-yielding projects.
18.       In forestry, Burma is estimated to have 75% of the world's remain-
ing teak reserves in addition to extensive reserves of marketable hardwood.
The rehabilitation of existing and the purchase of new equipment for both
extraction and wood processing, improved maintenance, construction of access
and feeder roads to forest areas, and better management and coordination
between Government agencies are priority requirements if the potential of
the sector for increased production and export earnings is to be more fully
tapped.
19.       E'urma's reserves of mineral products are similarly impressive.
Although only a few areas of the country have been systematically prospected,
it is clear that Burma has a highly varied and favorable endowment of minerals
-- tin and tungsten, lead, zinc, silver and copper. Their effective utiliza-
tion will, however, require that urgent attention be given to the rehabilita-
tion, modernization and maintenance of existing mining operations, institution
building and technical training. The benefits foregone by past neglect and
inadequate management in the post-war period are enormous. A new opportunity
is the development of petroleum resources; current onshore crude oil produc-
tion already permits self-sufficiency.
20.       The primary sectors potentially provide Burma with a solid base
for industrial development, provided managerial efficiency is improved and
research and development are promoted.  In contrast to this potential, however,
investments in the recent past have concentrated on industries which were not
always in Line with the country's comparative advantages.  Notable cases in this
connection are a number of heavy industries where capacity has been built up
over the years to levels that do not permit efficient production. A review of
industrial strategy is needed, given the character of the country's resource
endowments and the fiscal and balance of payments implications of capital-
intensive industrial development.
21.       Together with the development of the primary and secondary sectors,
greater attention is required for the rehabilitation of the country's physical



- 6 -
infrastructure, in particular transportation. The transport sector is in a
serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment and maintenance.
Only some 60% of the stock of diesel locomotives, 50% of the fleet of trucks
in the public sector, and 75% of inland watercraft are in running condition.
During the Second Four Year Plan, the transportation and communications sector
accounted for about 17% of all development expenditures. Although a similar
share would be justified during the Third Four-Year Plan, a share of only 13%
has been proposed. Within such an allocation, the highest priority needs to
be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing capacity, although
some expansion of capacity in the communications sector is also required.
Also, rationalization of transport pricing policy is essential. To have any
substantial impact, these measures must, in addition, be accompanied by
improvements in operational efficiency and management in the public sector.
22.       The need for institution building and management development, which
expand absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration and imple-
mentation of development programs, cannot be overemphasized. The Burmese
planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex and rigid
in its manner of operation and focuses excessively on the formulation rather
than the implementation of targets. Streamlining of the entire planning and
administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision making and strengthen-
ing of the capability of Government entities to prepare and implement projects
are urgently needed.
23.       The Government concurs broadly with the above diagnosis of the prob-
lems it faces and the issues to which attention must urgently be addressed.
if pursued vigorously, and duly supplemented with additional measures, the
Government's new policy orientation should lead to a significant acceleration
of economic growth. In this connection, the 1977 law on the "Rights of the
Private Enterprise" is welcomed. The Rules and Regulations of this law have
now been issued, and it is hoped that by legitimizing private sector activity
and establishing a clearer set of guidelines for the development of the
public, cooperative and private sectors, some re-integration of the economy
will take place which can be expected to have a beneficial impact upon
economic performance.
24.       The targets of the authorities entail GDP growth in real terms of
6.6% per annum under the Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82). Agriculture
is targeted to expand by 5.8% per annum and the processing and manufacturing
sector by 12.2%. These targets are ambitious, compared to past performance,
and whether Burma can achieve them will depend on the ability of the Govern-
ment to generate the necessary momentum, through improved efficiency and
investment in more directly productive areas, in both the private and public
sectors.
25.       In support of the ambitious growth and investment targets for the
Third Four Year Plan, external assistance is needed for projects which
contribute towards:
--   intensified and more efficient use of existing cultivated
areas and the reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture
(research and extension services, supply of essential inputs,



- 7 -
especially high-yielding varieties of planting materials,
Eertilizer and light agricultural machinery; improvement of
irrigation facilities, in particular, tubewell development;
and integrated agricultural development);
--   better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction, processing and transport
facilities);
--   development of known mineral deposits; and
--   development of agro- and mineral-based industries
possessing clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish and wood products, and fertilizer production).
Alongside such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required ior infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate exist-
ing capacity in transportation and communications. While project loans and
technical assistance will be justified for most projects in the above fields,
commodity financing also will be required from external sources to meet
Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares, and equipment in support
of its rehabilitation efforts.
26.       Given Burma's low income level and the scarcity of foreign ex-
change, such external assistance should be on concessionary terms and should,
in addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present,
be covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is parti-
cularly needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a
low foreign exchange component.
27.       Burma's debt service ratio has increased from 10% in the sixties
to about 20% in CY 1977, due primarily to a relative decline in exports with
respect to GDP rather than a relative increase in debt servicing. By the
end of MaLrch 1978, Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to US$500 million. With increased foreign assistance, external
public debt will rise further, but Burma should have no major problem in
servicing this debt, provided that it continues on concessionary terms,
in view of Burma's moderately favorable export potential.
28.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a healthy
and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with which these
resources will be managed and developed. While there are some signs that
Burma's performance in this regard is now being improved, these need to be
strengthened and broadened. Provided Burma sustains its efforts at utilizing
this endowment efficiently and combines them with a positive attitude towards
population planning, it should make the task of economic development more
manageable and provide increasingly productive employment for its people in
the long,er run.
29.       The Bank Group, in close cooperation with the IMF, will continue
discussions with the Government regarding further improvements in economic



- 8 -
policy which would help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
development. At the Government's request, the Bank organized an Aid Group
for Burma. The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in
Tokyo. At the third meeting of the Group held on April 27, 1979, in Tokyo,
the Group assured the Government of its support for programs and policies to
accelerate economic growth. This support was demonstrated by total aid
indications of over $400 million, or double the amount which was indicated
at the second aid meeting held in Paris on February 1, 1978.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
30.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways.  All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
31.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1973.  At the request of
the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973. Since 1973 IDA has made
twelve credits totalling US$202.3 million equivalent (net of cancellations),
two of which have been satisfactorily completed and the credits fully dis-
bursed. About 60% of this assistance was channeled to the agricultural
sector, consisting of seven projects: irrigation, forestry, rubber, live-
stock, seed development, and two paddyland development projects. About
21% of IDA's assistance supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector
through three projects, namely inland water transport, railways, and a second
ports project. The remaining 19% of IDA's assistance has been for one project
each in the telecommunications sector (11%) and the mining sector (8%). The
proposed credit would be the first in FY80, bringing the total of IDA assist-
ance to Burma to US$237.3 equivalent, net of cancellations. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of June 30, 1979, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no investments in
Burma, nor are any planned.
32.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects.  Through our on-
going projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved. A
US$3.0 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline suit-
able for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, transport,
power and industry. The Seed Development and Rubber Rehabilitation Projects
(Credits No. 745-BA and 879-BA, respectively) were prepared under the Umbrella
Project. A second phase of this Umbrella project is now under discussion with
the Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Association plans to continue its
technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help improve Burmese
project preparation capabilities, as well as administrative and managerial
skills through in-service and overseas training.



33.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate con-
straints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying production
for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange. Within this
overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the development of
agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and where possible,
priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same time, finan-
cing of infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas as transporta-
tion and telecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Many
of these are inoperable at present and have increasingly impeded economic
activity in the directly productive sectors of the economy.
34.       The Association intends to assist the Government with the implemen-
tation of these objectives. However, the extent to which the Association
would be abLe to provide assistance will depend largely on the pace by which
the Government continues to iLmprove overall macroeconomic performance along
the lines noted in paragraphs 16 to 25. In particular, future lending may
be constrained by the low absorptive capacity of implementing agencies, espe-
cially in the agriculture sector. Thus, the Government's action to improve
its absorptive capacity, in 1particular, to make its administrative machinery
more conducive to development, will essentially determine the scope and volume
of external assistance.
35.       In line with the nesed to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
most of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. A major project, Nyaunggyat
Multipurpose Dam, is being appraised. It is designed to increase food pro-
duction in areas of Upper Burma, to meet the raw cotton requirements of the
domestic textile industry, and to provide for power generation. Due to the
size of the project, the Association is exploring co-financing with a number
of bilateral donors. A paddy storage and handling project is being appraised.
36.       F'rograms to expand production and exports will need to be supported
by complementary improvements in economic infrastructure. In this connection,
a second telecommunications project, prepared by the Government, has been
appraised. It will complement the first telecommunications project (Credit
551-BA, US';21 million) by further rehabilitating the telecommunications
network which is presently inadequate and is a major bottleneck to growth of
productive sectors. The project will help finance the expansion of telex and
telegraph I'acilities, and extension of existing telecommunication facilities
to help meet demand in Rangcoon and Mandalay as well as demand in smaller towns
and rural areas. It will also help improve international services through a
satellite ground station.
37.       The Bank Group presently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.



- 10 -
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
38.       Burma's agricultural sector, including livestock, forestry, and
fisheries, accounts for about 36% of GDP and employs about 68% of the work
force. Agriculture products, primarily rice and teak, account for about
85% of all exports. About 60% of Burma's industrial output stems from
agricultural products including cotton, jute, and sugarcane. Recognizing
the importance of the agriculture sector, the Government has increased its
share of state capital expenditure from 19.4% during the Second Four Year
Plan (1974/75-1977/78) to 27.3% in the current Third Four Year Plan (1978/79-
1981/82).
39.        Burma's forests cover about 96 million acres or over one-half of
its land area. Since 1936, about 100,000 acres of plantations, one-half of
which are teak, have been established. The current rate of plantation estab-
lishment is about 6,000 acres per year. At present, forest output is about
310,000 H tons of teak and about 375,000 H tons of hardwood per year. The
present teak Annual Allowable Cut (AAC) for Burma is about 400,000 H tons of
which about 300,000 H tons are from accessible and secure areas. Based on
recommendations in the recent Forest Feasibility Studies (FFS), girth limits
for teak and hardwoods have been reduced, increasing yield substantially
during the next cutting cycle. There is also a backlog of girdled and felled
teak of about 440,000 H tons in secure areas. The Government is embarking on
an aggressive policy of compensatory plantations and the dynamic system of
forest management being created will substantially increase future forest
yields. The hardwood AAC of 1.1 million H tons from accessible areas is not
fully utilized and is well above current or proposed extraction level. The
Irrawaddy River provides inexpensive if slow transport for rafting teak logs
from remote forest areas to Rangoon.
40.       Although forestry contributes less than 2.5% to GDP it provides
almost 25% of foreign exchange earnings, principally from the export of teak
logs and sawnwood. Forest based income showed real growth of almost 8% a year
during the Second Four Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) although measured against
a low base year. Total employment in forestry operations is about 150,000.
Due to a decline in hardwood extraction, total sawnwood consumption has
declined from 380,000 H tons in 1971/72 to 193,000 H tons in 1977/78.
41.       All of Burma's forests and most forest based industries are owned
and controlled by the Government. The Timber Corporation (TC) extracts all
commercial teak and most hardwood. All teak sawmilling, most hardwood saw-
milling, and veneer and hardwood manufacturing is the responsibility of the
TC.  The share of private manufacturing of timber products is extremely small.
Burma has a strong and well trained professional body of foresters with sub-
stantial overseas experience providing a solid basis for future expansion.
The Forest Department (FD) is the oldest forest service outside Europe.
A Forest Research Institute (FRI) has recently been established. In line
with Government policy which aims at increased autonomy and accountability
of State enterprises, the TC will be reorganized and decentralized over the
next 2-3 years.



- 11 -
42.       Previous neglect of Burma's forest product industry has resulted
in an industry which is rundown, short of spares, inadequately maintained,
having low throughputs and wastefully low conversion rates. Rehabilitation
and expansion is essential to make better use of current forest output. With
the exception of paper and paperboard, production has declined over the last
five years. The decline has been particularly serious in sawn teak, sawn
hardwood and plywood production. Substantial revenues are now foregone due
to poor sawing of existing output. Both teak and hardwood mills have low
capacity utilization. Almost all are in very poor condition and ill-equipped
to utilize effectively the existing forest resource. Hardwood recovery rate
of 54% is poor. Declining output is due to log shortages, equipment break-
downs, few spare parts, absenteeism and diesel fuel shortages.
43.       Teak is valued in export markets for both its decorative and struc-
tural properties. Because of the recent reductions in teak export by other
countries, Burma now supplies over half the world's teak and has a virtual
world monopoly in the high quality teak trade. The market potential for
increasing sawnwood volume, quality, and prices is good provided that the TC
continues its current efforts to improve marketing methods. Export markets
for Burmese hardwoods are less strong but have substantial potential. If
current improvements in TC's marketing methods continue, the growing world
markets could absorb several species either as logs or sawnwood. Because
Burma's share of the world tropical hardwood market is very small, even a
major increase in hardwood exports would not measurably affect world supplies
or prices.
44.       The key sectoral constraints identified in the FFS and through Bank
operations in Burma include: (i) Extraction - inadequate investment in new
equipment and insufficient maintenance of existing equipment so that the avail-
able resources are not optimally utilized; (ii) Processing - insufficient
investment in primary processing causing inefficient utilization of current
forest output; and (iii) Planning - insufficient knowledge of the resource
for comprehensive long-term planning.
45.       The proposed project is designed to assist the Government to achieve
the main sectoral objectives: (i) to maximize teak log exports in the medium
term; (ii) to satisfy the domestic market for sawn hardwoods; and (iii) to
develop a strategy to maximize long term economic returns. The Government's
policies would meet these objectives through: (i) investment in extraction,
road construction and transport equipment to increase timber extraction volumes
and reduce losses in transit; (ii) improving sawing quality and conversion
rates of sawmills, plywood mills, and veneer mills through rehabilitation and
new investment; (iii) improved marketing by the TC to increase exports; (iv)
improving equipment maintenance; (v) increasing resource availability by
improved forest management and silvicultural research and by augmenting sup-
plies of teak and other hardwoods through increased plantation establishment;
and (vi) intensified planning and coordination of forestry activities. Prep-
aration of a Forest Master Plan was discussed during negotiations. To assist
in developing a long-term sector strategy, the Government would prepare a
program for the development of a Forest Master Plan by December 31, 1980
[Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)].



- 12 -
Review of Progress of Forestry I Project
46.       The Burma Forestry Project (Forestry I), Credit No. 493-BA of
July 12, 1974, was designed to construct and upgrade forest roads, provide
equipment and spare parts for timber extraction, upgrade some hardwood saw-
mills, and undertake the FFS. Early implementation was slow due to organiza-
tional constraints. Problems during implementation included shortages of
spare parts and diesel fuel, slow procurement, inadequate maintenance and
management accounting, insufficient planning, and poor quality consultants for
the Project Unit. GOB has taken effective action to solve these difficulties
and the project is now operating satisfactorily. The project has now reached
100% of planned teak output, but only 35% of planned hardwood output, due to
delays in procurement of logging trucks. A contract for the procurement of
140 logging trucks and 30 trailers was awarded in January 1979 and delivery
is scheduled for August 1979. Hardwood output is expected to reach planned
levels by 1979/80. The project has strong support from the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forests (MAF) and the TC. The improvements both in management and
operating techniques initiated in Forestry I are already beginning to provide
benefits elsewhere in the TC and the interest of the TC management in further
development provides a solid basis for continued investment. The FFS provided
a basis for the proposed Forestry II project and detailed recommendations and
feasibility studies for future development of the forest and forest industry
sector. The problems experienced in Forestry I are not likely to recur in
Forestry II due to improved project design and actions taken as a result of
experience in the first project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Burma between
May and September 1978 with initial assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program. The proposed project is based on Forest Feasibility Studies (FFS)
which were undertaken as part of the Forestry I Project. The project was
appraised in November/December 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
D.C., during June 14 to 25, 1979. The Borrower's delegation was led by His
Excellency U Ye Goung, Minister of Agriculture and Forests. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Burma: Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project" (Report No.
2463-BA, dated July 17, 1979) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the project and special
conditions of the credits are given in Annex III.
Project Description
48.       The objectives of the proposed project are to increase teak and
hardwood exports, increase the domestic market supply of sawn hardwood,
augment teak supplies through compensatory plantations, select fast-growing
hardwood species and establish land-clearing techniques for future large-
scale plantation establishment. The project would be the first phase of
forestry and forest industry development in the East Pegu Yoma region. The
main project components are:



- 13 -
(a)  provision of new, and rehabilitation of existing extraction
equipment to increase extraction capacity and to reduce teak
log losses;
(b)  construction of roads to improve access to currently
inaccessible forest areas;
(c) upgrading mechanical maintenance capacity in the project
area;
(d) rehabilitation of existing hardwood sawmills and the construc-
tion of two hardwood sawmills to increase sawmilling capacity;
(e) rehabilitation of Okkyin teak sawmill in Rangoon, provision
of minor spare parts to other teak sawmills, and provision of
minor equipment to TC Milling and Marketing Department;
(f)  Establishment of 29,500 acres of teak plantations;
(g) investment in large-scale trial plantations to select suitable
fast-growing species and develop land-clearing techniques;
(h)  upgrading of existing timber wagons and locomotives on the
Taungdwyngi-Rangoon rail line to provide adequate unit train
timber transport capacity to Rangoon; and
(i)  technical assistance (16 man-years) for extraction, sawmill-
ing, and plantations, and overseas training (137 man-months).
Project Details and Implementation
49.        Except for the rehabilitation of timber wagons and locomotives
which would be the responsibility of the Burma Railways Corporation (BRC),
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest (MAF) would be responsible for imple-
mentation Df the proposed project. Within the MAF, the Timber Corporation
(TC) and the Forestry Department (FD) would have primary responsibility for
project execution. The TC would establish a Project Unit [PU(TC)1 that would
be fully responsible for road development, timber extraction, rehabilitation
of existing hardwood sawmilLs, construction of new hardwood sawmills, and the
milling and marketing of teak and hardwood in the project area. The PU(TC),
headed by a Project Director [PD(TC)], would be an operating division of
the TC and would be responsible to the Managing Director of the TC and,
through him, to the Management Committee of the TC. The PU(TC) would consist
of six departments including Extraction, Roads, Workshops, Milling and Market-
ing, Finance and Accounts, and Internal Audit.  The PU(TC) would be similar to
the project unit established under the Forestry I Project, which is operating
successfully.  The FD would establish a Project Unit [PU(FD)] to implement the
plantation component. The PIU(FD), headed by a Project Director [PD(FD)],
would report to the Director General of the FD. Coordination between the TC
and the FD, as well as other agencies involved in project implementation,
would be the function of the Project Steering Committee (PSC), consisting
of the heads of each agency and chaired by the Deputy Minister of the MAF.



- 14 -
Establishment of the PSC, the PU(TC), and the PU(FD) and appointment of
Project Directors for the PU(TC) and the PU(FD) with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, are conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed IDA Credit (Sections 6.01(b) (i), (ii); 6.01(c) (i), (ii),
and 6.01(d) of the draft DCA). The TC and the FD would prepare a draft
project completion report [Section 3.04(c) of the draft DCA].
50.       Extraction and Transportation.  The annual output of the project
at full development would be about 420,000 H tons of timber of which about
45,000 H tons would be dry teak extracted by elephants. The remaining
375,000 H tons of teak and hardwood would be extracted by elephant/mechanical
or mechanical teams. To increase extraction capacity, about 800 elephants
would be made available in the project area prior to the 1981/82 extraction
season. The project would also provide bulldozers, log skidders, log loaders,
trucks and trailers, logging trucks and supporting equipment.
51.        The project would provide for construction of about 120 miles of
all weather roads and about 240 miles of extended logging season (ELS) roads
and would finance bulldozers, road graders, front end loaders, dump trucks
and supporting equipment. The ELS roads would increase access road use to
150 days per year with a corresponding increase in mechanical extraction. The
TC would build and maintain all forest roads required for timber extraction.
The Construction Corporation (CC), which is responsible for maintenance of
the main highway system, would maintain or upgrade any section of the Rangoon-
Mandalay Highway in the project area that is heavily trafficked by the TC
logging vehicles [Section 3.06(c) of the draft DCA]. In the event of deterio-
ration of other public roads in the project area and at the request of the TC,
the CC would transfer for a given period of time the maintenance responsibili-
ties for such roads to the TC. The TC and the CC would enter into an agree-
ment, specifying the terms and conditions under which such transfer would
occur (Section 3.06(a) and (b) of the draft DCA). An outline of such terms
and conditions has already been agreed upon via an exchange of letters between
the TC, through MAF, and CC. The road construction unit within PU(TC) would
also construct about five rail loading areas, upgrade sawmill log yards and
prepare sites for construction of new sawmills.
52.       Rail transport capacity on the Taungdwyngi-Rangoon line would be
increased by rehabilitating 190 double bogie log wagons and 5 locomotives.
The Burma Railways Corporation (BRC) would thereafter operate four unit or
regularly scheduled trains and one yard train. Spares would be purchased
by the TC and transferred at cost to BRC who would be responsible for the
rehabilitation of wagons and locomotives. The BRC and the TC would enter
into an agreement, no later than January 31, 1980, specifying terms and
conditions under which items would be repaired and unit trains operated
(Section 3.07 of the draft DCA). An outline of such terms and conditions has
already been agreed upon via an exchange of letters between the TC, through
MAE, and BRC.
53.       To ensure rapid and effective mechanical support, the project would
provide additional workshop equipment, mobile service centers, inspection
vehicles and recovery vehicles for six TC workshops. New workshops and stores



- 15 -
would be built. Workshop staff would be trained in management, supervision,
and technical skills and substantial upgrading of mechanics to skilled grades
would be undertaken under the technical assistance component of the project
(paragraph 57).
54.       SaLwmilling.  The project would provide equipment to rehabilitate
16 State owned sawmills and provide spare parts, for resale by the TC, to 14
private or 'hire" sawmills operating under contract to the TC. Annual capa-
city of the State sawmills would increase by 31,000 H tons output. To provide
additional sawmilling capacity by 1982, the project would construct two hard-
wood sawmills, each of nominal annual single shift log input capacity of
12,000 H toiIs which would increase to 24,000 H tons double shift input during
the second year of operation.
55.       The project would provide sawing and material handling equipment to
rehabilitate the Okkyin sawmill in Rangoon. The design capacity of this mill
is nominally 150,000 H tons but, because of design inadequacies and poor ope-
ration, current annual production is only about 20,000 H tons. The TC, with
assistance of the consultant provided under the technical assistance component
of the project, would carry out a detailed work study to rehabilitate the
mill.
56.       Plantation.  The project would establish about 36,000 acres of plant-
ations with teak as the main species (29,500 acres) in a period slightly over
5 years. The project's teak planting program would produce about 450,000 H
tons of teak annually at matuarity. Large scale plantation trials (6,100 acres)
would select suitable mechanical land clearing methods. The trials would
also develop suitable fast growing species for the future establishment of
commercial scale industrial plantation establishment methods. The project
would employ taungya cultivation methods 1/ for teak plantation establishment
and for part of the large-scale trials.  This labor intensive method is cur-
rently being used successfully and is silviculturally, socially, financially,
and economically superior to mechanized operations when labor is available.
At full development, 18 plantation centers would be established. The PU(FD)
would be provided with crawler tractors, graders, dump trucks, bucket loaders,
rotary slashers, and other minor equipment for mechanized land clearing and
plantation support. The project would also provide wheeled tractors, trailers,
water bowsers, other vehicles, and office and minor workshop equipment. New
offices and residential buildings would be constructed to accommodate staff.
The FD wouLd have a small workshop to carry out routine maintenance and minor
repairs on the PU(FD) project equipment. Major repairs and overhauls would be
done in the PU(TC) workshop under contract. Technical assistance would be
provided for silviculture a, part of the technical assistance component
(paragraph 57).
1/   Tree seedlings are planted and farmers intercrop with food crops during
the first year. The farmers provide weeding and plant protection for both
tree seedlings and food crops.



- 16 -
57.       Training and Technical Assistance.  The project includes provision
for about 137 man-months of overseas training for the TC and FD personnel.
Fields of training include management, extraction, workshops, roads, finance,
milling and marketing. The overseas training requirements were discussed and
agreed during negotiations. A detailed program for overseas training would
be prepared by January 31, 1980 (Section 3.09 of the draft DCA). Technical
assistance (about 16 man-years, costing about US$6,500 per man-month) provided
over a three-year period would include assistance in workshop engineering,
mechanic training and in-field mechanic assistance, logging engineering,
sawmill engineering, silvicultural plantation practices, and management
accounting and management information systems. In addition, about 4 man-years
of local consultancy for management accounting and management information
systems would be provided to the PU(TC). In order to assist the TC and the
FD in the implementation of the proposed project, the Government would retain,
no later than March 31, 1980, consultants whose qualifications and terms of
reference are acceptable to the Association [Section 3.02(a) of the draft
DCA]. The draft terms of reference for these consultants were discussed and
agreed during negotiations. In addition, about 2 man-years of road engineer-
ing assistance and about 2 man-years of surveying assistance would be provided
to PU(TC) by local consultants. Equipment manufacturers would also provide
about 1 man-year of assistance for training of heavy equipment operators.
Costs and Financing and Relending
58.       Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at
US$86.4 million of which US$49.7 million is foreign exchange. Physical
contingencies amount to 6% of total basic project costs based on 5% for both
civil works and equipment except for Okkyin sawmill where 20% 1/ for physical
contingencies was allowed. Contingencies for price escalation over the five-
year project implementation period amount to 11% of the basic cost based on
7% per annum increase for civil works and 6% per annum for equipment. The
local cost component of US$36.6 million equivalent includes about US$20.9
million equivalent for taxes and duties. The proposed IDA Credit of US$35
million equivalent would finance US$33.3 million of the foreign exchange
costs for equipment and spare parts and the remaining US$1.7 million would be
disbursed against local costs for plantation (about US$1.5 million equivalent)
and local consultants (about US$0.2 million equivalent). The proposed EEC
Special Action Credit would finance $8 million of the foreign exchange costs
of the components to be implemented by the TC (mainly for specific items of
logging and sawmilling equipment). The proposed IDA and EEC Special Action
Credits would be on a parallel basis.  The Government of Finland would
finance, on a grant basis, the foreign exchange cost (about $1.4 million)
of the technical assistance component. The Government of Burma would enter
into an agreement with the UNDP to finance the cost of overseas training,
about $200,000 equivalent [Section 3.02 (b) of the draft DCA]. Thus, total
external financing would amount to US$44.6 million equivalent or 68% of
total project costs net of taxes and duties. The Government of Burma would
1/   Based on a pre-feasibility proposal by the TC.  Detailed rehabilitation
plans would be carried out by the TC with assistance from consultants.



- 17 -
finance about US$41.8 million equivalent including about US$5.1 million of the
foreign exchange costs (including contingencies) for equipment and materials
reserved for procurement under local procedures (paragraph 64).
FINANCING PLAN /a
(US$ million)
IDA   EEC  Finland   UNDP   GOB   Total
TC                       30.9   8.0       -        -     15.0    53.9
FD                        3.9    -        -        -      5.7      9.6
Teclnical Assistance   0.2    -          1.4       -      0.2      1.8
Overseas Training          -      -       -       0.2      -       0.2
Total                 35.0   8.0       1.4     0.2   20.9    65.5
/a Excluding taxes and duties.
59.        A large portion of the proposed IDA Credit (US$31.1 million) and the
entire proceeds of the EEC Special Action Credit (about $8 million) would be
relent to the TC for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at 9%
interest per annum, 1/ with the TC bearing the foreign exchange risk [Section
3.01(b) of the draft DCA and Section 2.01(b) of the draft Special Action
Credit]. The execution and delivery of the on-lending agreement (Subsidiary
Loan Agreement) is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit
[Section 6.01(a) of the draft DCA], and provision has been made for cross-
effectiveness among the Finland grant, the EEC Special Action Credit, and
the IDA Credit [Sections 6.01(e) and 6.01(f) of the draft DCA]. The FD
expenditures would be financed by annual budgetary appropriation.
60.        Despite its variable output, the TC has always been a financially
profitable organization. Accounting of the TC is not up to date and is less
than satisfactory. However, as a result of the experience gained from the
Forestry I project, the TC's accounting procedures are improving. The TC's
total assets were about Kyat 8830 million (US$131 million) at the end of fiscal
1976/77. The TC's after-tax return on total net assets rose from 2.9% in
1973/74 to 6.6% in 1976/77.  In 1976/77, the IDA financed Forestry I project
contributed 23% of the TC's net earnings and provided 26% of revenues from
23% of net assets (8% return oin net assets). In 1977/78, Forestry I project
increased its return on net assets to 21% and is expected to contribute,
together with the ADB financed Sagaing project, to a substantial further
improvement in the TC's operating position. The total equity capital of
the TC was Kyat 312 million (US$46 million) at the end of fiscal 1976/77 with
net total long-term debt of Kyat 247 million (US$37 million).  The TC's debt
coverage in 1976/77 was 2.8 with a debt ratio of about 0.65. The TC's capital
structure is considered acceptable. The financial rate of return for the
PU(TC) would be 14% after payment of all investment and operating taxes and
duties. The PU(TC) would generate satisfactory cash flow for debt service,
which would be adequate for equipment replacement from its own resources.
The financial rate of return of the plantation component would be 19%. The
1/   Inflation is projected at about 6 to 7% per annum over the next three
years.



- 18 -
fiscal rate of return of the project to the Government would be 67%.  The
Government would receive about $90 million in taxes and duties over the
five-year project period.
Procurement
61.       Equipment, vehicles and spare parts to be financed by the proposed
IDA Credit, would total US$33.3 million equivalent including contingencies,
and would be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accord-
ance with IDA's procurement guidelines. Exceptions to these procedures,
totalling US$4.5 million equivalent, would be as follows:
(a)  proprietary spare parts for rehabilitation of existing
extraction equipment (US$1.3 million) and sawnilling equipment
(US$1.2 million) are specific by make and model so that ICB
procedures would not be appropriate and procurement would be
from original equipment agents or manufacturers;
(b)  equipment, spare parts and materials and groupings thereof,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract,
which are either required urgently or are otherwise not suit-
able for ICB, would be purchased through normal Government
procurement procedures, which are acceptable to IDA, and on
the basis of comparing prices from no less than 3 independent
suppliers. Such purchases would be limited to US$2 million.
62.       Equipment to be financed by EEC Special Action Credit, totalling
US$8 million equivalent including contingencies, would be procured by ICB
subject to EEC eligibility restrictions. Equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, which is either
required urgently or is otherwise not suitable for ICB subject to EEC eligi-
bility restrictions, would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures and on the basis of comparing prices from no less than three
independent suppliers.  Such purchases would be limited to US$1.0 million.
Equipment to be financed by the EEC Credit would include (a) road graders,
log loaders, fork lift trucks and straddle trucks for TC operations, and
(b) workshop equipment, survey equipment and radios.
63.       Orders for sawmill equipment, workshop equipment and similar items
wqould be bulked to provide economic bidding packages for ICB and to reduce
the procurement load on TC. Preference limited to 15% of the CIF price, or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to eligible
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
64.       Equipment and vehicles costing about US$8.4 million, including
contingencies, of which about US$5.1 million is foreign exchange, would be
reserved for procurement under local procedures, and would not be eligible
for reimbursement under either the proposed IDA or EEC Special Action Credits.
Disbursements
65.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA and EEC credits would be made
against: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,



- 19 -
spare parts, and other materials (IDA and EEC credits); (b) 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs) for locally manufactured equipment and spare
parts (IDA and EEC credits); (c) 90% of expenditures for local consultants
for management accounting and information systems (IDA credit); and (d) 100%
of direct local costs of teak plantation establishment (IDA credit).
66.       Disbursements for plantation establishment (US$1.5 million equiva-
lent) would be made only for those plantings which had been certified by the
Director General, FD, to have been satisfactorily established. Project plant-
ings would be established approximately eight months after planting. Dis-
bursements would be at an estimated rate of US$50 equivalent per acre up to
a maximum of 29,500 acres. Disbursements for the Okkyin sawmill equipment
would be contingent upon the technical approval of the detailed rehabilita-
tion plans by the sawmill engineer provided under the technical assistance
component of the proposed project [Schedule 1, 6(b) of the draft DCA].
67.       Disbursements for project plantings would be made against a state-
ment prepared by the PU(FD) and certified by the Director General, FD.
Documentation supporting these statements would be retained by FD for review
by IDA during project supervision. All other applications for withdrawals
would be fuLly documented. Disbursements from the IDA credit account are
expected to be completed by 'September 30, 1985, approximately nine months
after the completion of the project. Disbursements from the EEC Special
Action Credit are expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.
Markets
68.       The market for teak and hardwoods is expected to remain strong, and
Burma has an opportunity to expand its market share in view of the reduction
of teak export by other counitries. The TC would establish new markets for
these timbers by improved market research and intelligence, appropriate pric-
ing, and improved coordination between production and marketing. To assist
the TC with these tasks, a Market Research Unit within the TC's Marketing and
Milling Department would be established by July 31, 1980 (Section 3.08 of the
draft DCA).
Project Ben,efits
69.       The net annual incremental production from the project at full
development includes 72,000 H tons of teak and 220,000 H tons of hardwood
logs. The annual incremental economic benefits of the project are estimated
at about US$90 million at full development. The plantation component would
be the first phase of a program aimed at preserving and increasing Burma's
forest resources. Direct incremental employment in the project area would be
about 3,000.  Additional jobs would also be created within the Rangoon teak
sawmills and log export yard[s as a result of increased production from the
project area. The plantation program would provide permanent new employment
to about 1,700 landless taungya farm families. The project would make
forestry a more secure source of regular employment throughout the project
area. Income of the TC and FD employees would be about Kyats 15 million
(US$2.2 million) per year. In addition, Kyats 25 million (US$3.7 million)



- 20 -
would be earned by private fellers, elephant and buffalo owners, and private
truck owners. Annual income to taungya farmers would increase from about
Kyats 1,600 (US$240) to about Kyats 3,000 (US$450) per family. Even with
this increase, the income of taungya farmers would only be about 80% of the
present income of other farm families.
70.        The economic rate of return is estimated to be over 100% for teak
extraction and sawmilling (about 25% of total project cost), 90% for hardwood
extraction and sawmilling (about 55% of total project cost), and 20% for teak
plantations (about 5% of total project cost). The average economic rate of
return for the total project would be over 100%. Except for labor which was
valued at its current financial rate, a shadow exchange rate of US$1=12 Kyats
(equivalent to a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.56) was used in the economic
analysis. The analysis also includes plantation costs, but excludes its
benefits. To this extent, project benefits are underestimated.
71.        The project would have only minor adverse environmental effects.
Animal extraction provides minimum disturbance to the forest structure.
Mechanical extraction through construction of skid trails and feeder roads
will create some temporary minor turbidity in water flows. Potential soil
erosion may occur in teak plantation areas. However, the project provides
for appropriate protective measures and careful monitoring.
Project Risks
72.       It is extremely unlikely that the project would become financially
or economically unsound due to adverse technical or economic conditions.
A possible risk is that renewed insurgency in the project area would preclude
forestry operations. There is no insurgent activity in the area now and pro-
posed forest activity in the project area would discourage renewed activity
because of improved access for security forces.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist
Republic of the Union of Burma and the Association, the draft EEC Special
Action Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
and the Association, as Administrator of the EEC Special Action Account
established with funds contributed by the member states of the EEC, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
74.       Provision has been made for cross-effectiveness among the Finland
grant, the EEC Special Action Credit, and the IDA Credit.



- 21 -
75.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the IDA and EEC Credits are
the delivery and execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment of Burma and the TC, the creation of the PU(TC), PU(FD), and the PSC,
and the appointment of Project Directors for PU(TC) and PU(FD) with qualifi-
cations and experience acceptable to the Association.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the proposed
Special Action Credit would be in conformity with the agreement between the
Association, and the EEC and its member states dated May 2, 1978.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed Special Action Credit.
Robert S. NcNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attacbments
July 24, 1979



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page 1 of 5 pages
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A JRGE
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                     BURMA                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             676.6                                                        SAME         SAME      NEXT HIOHER
AGRICULTURAL      103.6                                    MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
<22? PER CAPITA (USS)                    50.0          80.0      140.0            167.5       181.9         430.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         55.0         58.0       49.0              69.1        83,         262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        21.8         27.0        31.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.0            23.0        25.0             13.2        16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           51.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. NM.                          32.0         40.0       47.0              86.6        49.4         45.3
PER SQ. NM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0           253.0      304.0             330.2       252.0        149.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            38.4         40.0       41.0              44.3        43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                            59.0         57.0       55.0              52.4        53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          3.0        4.0               3.1         3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2.2        2.2               2.4         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                 5.7          3.9        3.8               4.1         4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        43.0         40.0       39.0              44.4        42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        22.0         17.0       15.0              16.4        15.9         11.7
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          2.7         2.7              3.2         2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..         ..               7.9        12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            107.0        102.0       95.0             99.4         98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SLPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     90.4         101.0      103.0             93.0        93.3          94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             50.0         49.0       58.0              56.1        52.1         54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          12.1         13.0/f    12.9              10.4         13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        25.0         18.0       15.0              19.2        18.5         11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0            49.0       52.0              49.1        49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..           ..         ..                ..       105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPLLATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.0       17.0              31.5        26.3         34.4
URBAN                                  ..         35.0       30.0              63.9        58.5         57.9
RURAL                                  ..         13.0       13.0              20.1        15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         35.0       33.0              15.7        16.0         40.8
URBAN                                  ..         45.0       38.0              66.8        65.1         71.3
RURAL                                  ..         32.0       32.0               2.5         3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             9900.0/h    8970.0    5410.0              7107.9    11396.4        6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       7540.0    6120.0            12064.0      5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1400.0       1170.0    1220.0/flo        2738.4       1417.1        726.5
URBAN                                  ..        250.0      250.0/f,             ..       197.3        272.7
RURAL                                  ..      15820.0   11920.0/fij             *-      2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         34.0       39.0/f             ..        24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.6           ..         ..                ..         5.3          5.4
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..         4.9          5.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                ..         5.4          5.5
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOIAL                                  ..           ..         ..
LR3AN                                  .. ..                   .
RURAL                                  *-
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWLFLINGS)
T(TAL                                  ..           ..         ..                ..        22.5         28.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..        17.8         45.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                ..          ..          9.9



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                      Page  2  of  5  pages
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENC  GROUPS (ADJUSTED AypAGES
BURMlA                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAKE        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP le
EDUCATION
AIJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
FRIMARY:     TOTAL                  56.0         87.0      80.0             59.5        63.3         82.7
MALE                  61.0         92.0       83.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
FEMALE                52.0         83.0       78.0            43.7        48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TTAL                   10.0         21.0      22.0              19.5       16.7         21.4
MALE                  13.0         26.0       25.0             27.8       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 7.0         17.0       19.0             10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (%  OF SECONDARY)    0.5            1.4        1.4              1.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0         47.0      52.0             42.2        41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                             ..         32.0        ..               ..        21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         59.7/h         ..       67.0             25.5       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.8          1.0       1.2              2.3         2.8          9.3
RkDIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         15.0      22.0             15.5        27.2         76.9
T'V RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..               ..         2.4         13.5
N'IWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
DiTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
T-OUSAND POPULATION                     ..         15.0      10.0              6.2         5.3         18.3
CLNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0             ..       8.1/f             ..         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TJTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10600.0        10920.0   12300.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.1         36.9      36.4             21.4        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               68.0         59.6      55.0             66.3        69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.3        15.4       19.0              9.6        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 47.8         42.9      41.2             35.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                  58.0         54.1      52.9             52.3        52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                37.8         31.1      29.8             15.7        18.0         20.4
ECCNOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          1.1        1.1              1.3        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
EERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
FECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/i           ..        ..               ..          ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.77i         40.0/f       ..              ..          ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.57?          8.07?      ..               ..          .           6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.57?         21.07       ..               ..          .          16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       94.0             86.5        99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..       68.0             74.2        78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
IEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      50.0               ..        91.9        179.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      36.0             50.4        54.8        103.7
E'STIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
?OVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      35.0             44.3        44.1         24.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      35.0             52.4        53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator ar.d the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, daita for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most ReCent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income (5280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976)i   /f  1972;  /R  General hospitals only;   /h 1962;  /i 1958, Rangoon.
May, 1979



- 24 -                                                              ANEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
Notes -Although the da ta are dra-  trt,-        r    generally judged the moa  authoritatio  end reliable, it should also ha notad  ho  than nay not be t-trn-
It-onelo   -. onpable hecaoe of the lack of utandardiad dafimiti-n  end concpts used by differet- outrseinontetig the date.  The date r. I                             oetsles
useful no de....ihe ordere of nagnituda, indIctet Itred., and ch-rat-riete  certin major diff-re..e  bstanoutta
The odl.ated croon  --ac. for each indicator are populatio-neightad gae~rto  means, entluding rh.notre     -alua  of the ld itat-  -nd the mos  -Populatd
coutr  in eac  group.  li.n to lack of date, group  Vaeragee of all indictoret for Capital Surplus Oil Eupotrt.  and of indi-tator  of  OAse  to Iutrr and ...reta
disposa,  ouing, Itcaw  diatrihution and Poenrty for cther  -eutry groups are ppulatin-enighrsd geometric. mon                     itb"ut too. loto  of th         "Itrn  00 Ot. end
ch,s moa  populated  donr.lmstmcorn   f om le ceteidctr  d....d  on aalabilint of date-and in notorIfruotinmohoertnd
in  eltinaorot of oneIsdinao   oaohr    hs   vrneaemsl   seu   narolaio    f'tsrd   a  s   hercn  feeti   hb -ulu- of one
iodi-tro  or a ti.t amn  the cutryen   afrnctoua
LotNR AREA lthouaand eq. on                                                                  tone h   enri dno         -tln tn   It ...hthn  -hoeI   chn.ed
Total - Tuta1 suf a.. re 0..   mepefinig land areed iniand eaters                         rurl.- taaropeple (tote1, urha. and rura) seve  by  ocet  die-
AetliuraL-   - N eet recenvt estimate  of agricultural ar-  used temporar ily               peaal aspr tagne of their raPer"tin   'popoltiuta   forrta di.ponol
or peranntyfor  ropa, pastrn, narket and kitchen gerdeoe or to                             a  inniudo-the not%ation and dispoea ~i,  m   orototnrener
tie  tatton.                                                      ~~~~~~h-an  -etret  end ua.sth-ae   yee-on   yraeothe use of pit
priVies  end sietler-   stlltoe
CO   iNCPTA "I'l)  -Cpproitatiteat curret market pe s,                               PoeIat I'llethicrica   - PnpuI.isio    ile   yoebro   rciigpy
cN  'alculatd by  -an  ouoreo -P.-Ptho  astAcrd lank Atln  1197577 1-Phee                   hn    ulfo   fr VI  nill       e        doboln uivesiy  tenet.rtjig  hy1
1960. 1070, and 1977 data.                                                                         P,,,-onernoem  cre   - Population  Alided by torber of prartitiug
tNtgRot CORONWIPTION PER CAPITA - Am-e1 conateption of c--riel ...rg tE coal               Ponuieltion car harite  bed - total. uran  so.dr-rj - Ppuplationf_ tl
and lignt,P perta,ce, naturl gaen  hydr-, nuclea  and geonhone                           -orhe, end rura) dinided by their ra-p-ti-e n,sb-  of boepirl bsdt
e1-otriotrtyf  to biloran   of coat eqoinalent per -epits; 1960, 19T                     anileble  in public end prinae gorr 1:  aditperietinnd hoaptrl1 ondre
atd 1976 data.                                                                           habilliaton-I-- onnnr . opltratae  nalsftnnper-antl  stffed by
PtPCI.ATION ANt VITAL STATISTIICS                                                            at  :tns  orI   hsca.tthia,ennpolioproial    utda
TCoral P rouain  mid-year fseilliomu        A. usf July 1; 1960, 1970, -ad                 cena    o   nldd             ua   optl.hno r inctudehs1tr  en.d  md1
1977 date.'                                                                             oa   In e,nt  perannty  rote  byi,Iyalta   (tot  hy a nedla  a-di
Al-fron  def.ntInsofraere .my  ff.tet coep-rbility of dare                             Pronidr a liuited rneo  oha   atlts
anotgoo...rlcu   clOt9,  9197  atd 1971 dat.                                           odlelnpr  oeiAlbdi.- fT-1 ou,-tb  of adIi-i.n.tou   di-ch-roc
P     iotin  rYear200PtioniePIjti                             I.b .                 from  hoepitatt divided by the nonher ot bedu.
1971 total  poplaion by age andIoadt thir motality aod fertility                    33gyjti
am.Projection pora__er  for mota try rIte,  con"   oIf 3 eel                       eareec  i- of ho..e.bold Io n  tr- hotnbtf     oe.  ra.an   ua 
aItoai,,g tift  onp-c l-ry at birth iecraa.lE Ing 0      _outry't Per ..Pit.             A honanbold o--tt-r  of a group  J1  nditftlu            br,ltgqatr
inomeIrel  and fema  le fthe  nootnc   Otebilicing at.77.5 Yer.                         end choir oem    cals   0ordrorld  brnyo  nynth  inctu,dod it the
fh    oeceofrfrilY rat   alI have 7J. inel  I ioting declIne                            househod forIaritcl Poro
in frriltt   uo-oditg  to I, Icn    ..ve  end eac  family pla...ig pOt-               Pnr.onc  0orem    ato-oa1.ubn   n   oa 
tonaon    ot  outr  h   he  ot oednoo  tns    oma inelo                     fprotytro   nal   ra,adrrloopr   ovn  nu   oll
on- naIcad rott.1. il ty tree t fo  projection. puptec.-   ,.            t             t-op-oti-ly.  oellItg   .tl00 dbA    -o-rtot  ertttcad unootpird pru
La.t lotaty   1 Poru   n ion-lahc    t torary h Ppltion,  thorn. in ooto  lb           O      -etolc-Iod-liyI cer lo-of uelttno 1i- total,  -rhn.uo  rurl                   f
utructoreematnu  conrant.  Ths to oohlad only  fter feril'try t-O ou,  ra,ad rura  dwel -noepe-li-l-
tencri Ionof oorr rplace    tItuifc.a.t-IT.  The Staionay popoaIon            EUCAIO
Ice oatcot ba ed ton  bc has Iu  f the pojo-doboah-     r-tticsJ  of the       kd uutd cnrottno -Int..
,popofarto  to rho dour2lOOt and the r-t  ot decline ot tottitrytf               ny  Cnho     oo,manadfear                             -fto  tota, no ~ and f-ntai  ttol-
to   ..   .  ...ooer    too.                                                           r_tralgeathpiar-oea    pronac   ufro-petnleycheun
ea   totto-t Pouebnit R-a1h_d - The noa  oh- Strattn-r   oP~la-                        -rh-l-egr popolatiio-  nor.sly tco              hloar    -lyeubt
tlonoino  hat hero rnaobrd.                                       ad~Iluu-d for dtilrnf_       lcntlht of primary cdot-ooo   Iot   --ti-r  ofth
Per 0q. In..- Mid-yea  pupuletto   Per oyua-  kil-nn-  (Itt h-oca-o                       bcln   rabo.. the offcial  -choo1 agc.
Pe  o   o.ori-ltore  land - Computed at abooc for agfiltu lta   land              tI    .rqoitor  ateo    Iotver f "Prr..ed p"'ta-  Inerot  Ion..;..r. id"
Pocoactt ac otutd te  crn i6f -hlrn2-Iyao     nrifoe                                  I  no 17, yeer  of a O; tortes pond-ncrotune  Itr g--oo ly e-loded.
(15-64 yeMtf,  antd r-tled (65 yeat  atd oner) as pr-otncar  or mid-                  PVceitno c-co11-n I-r--n of o-todar-yf - V.otanion1 i-ltitu-be   tool dc
Pooniaion oouth rte fo  roert- locl - Aen1a grauh rtes. of total                depano-or  of ae-odey  intir-ion-
i-erpplations tot 1950-6t, 19070-, and l97t-77                                   ui-roorrto-oiay.anocodn-raI'ltdltt  r                                     It d i
Pesota.lom orohrte (pe-et-i - orban- An-aI gfrutb rtes` of orhar                           prrr   n   o    eyl ododdh  tthr   ftoot hrt In-rh  _0m_
po,lalo  fo  lI5t-60. 1960-7t, and 1970-7h.                                       hpIt0  eeo
t,t. rt   otc,ad    ,na   in               h.rh   P-t thou-ed ofooIltrc   aofno,f  L- t--r  adult  fble totrd- end o-itt do
feds uneto aefo  ituau)             -     ISou   doeths yet thouland of nid-                            -    --     .tppl,-gd1   ..
per  oultin 6t0, 1970 ood 1977 dot.-                                      CAONSCTIo
opoii  fril'ity rate; ueu ily fi-o-o-yra rgeedisf It 1960,                         vhles
197, en   95                                                                            alro   et(e  huadprlco)-ti  typoso   eror   o   ai
Femily PIm.- aI.,          r.aoo   Iioeadl   soaItme  o                                     raoer   ogtroIpbi  prcoso                        ofP.pueio'; co lude  oIlk .t..d
plantingporr                                                                            etff-   data for           - teror  cat   nay nor  -ropa-bltslone-      ootn-t
fomile lnnieg-uaes Ic ...etIof mar ried u     n  -' Pctntp o1f                      ahollohed littonilg.
married o       -e   f obild-.bearioc  oge flO-44 year) uooebIrth-onrl                 I ecotrVnrhuadcrltof-C   roitofrhodanrgor 
celo ed  t yaroohn rgltraionofTV  srt .    a.  In, o-ftco-t.
>O0D oND NU'IRICION                                                                        hstna-nrdtiulatl-  leer t-9icsnt e-nulTiV   -I tho 5~ thffesn-                    ua
l,odee of food prd-oion per -a ita (1119h-71 e  lI-Idoo   e   ait                           lno   dlygnrlIneeteoppr,df d aeapn  lodica-1 pobli-
anes Iptocectonof  llfoo   ootte.Pedttn   u    n  soe.d ad                         -tatto   devted prioartly  -ot-oodiogAca  once1                    --tIntnid-rd n
feed and t  on 1acder yar bel.7dCrmdltiae cove  prnnarly goode                           hr "dolly' if Ii uppraro ut leant fou- It             mt
fo.egraeinetead of  ugo) uhc  are edible and cotannurcet                      Cinom aou   I ttendanc   Pon carite Pert .ce-tas-d on tho number of lttet
f.. ttfee and teeer  tldedl   Aggregte pr-d-it-n of eah conI.o.drigte.or  intoln  admlsino  to drifn-t  lo-ma  ond eoflle
to oa-d on  ational.. ever9n  produce  price oighta                                       mtt
Pot Iacia. uucly of  -aloiecIceonto If ut                    Cetf - Cap-d fro
"oPorre  and t         ioeot    ok   Ne Ptppesto lode animal fend, teds.                 f-rccaduoenployed bunnc Idipthouole   rdnoo    t.   oi
uatoitlot  -dc in food protesoing  od   ec   ndttriibtinr.  OR.-                         tine  it  aiosout ieeare toto,oyrablc.
oufmeor  unto iu cetd by 'AO ha-d on phyotlgoa  otede for tO-                         F-al leero-tt  - Fcm1e labor f-re0    -eocro               .f1oa  labor forte
ono  fo   dnreat touohod  lve. Iruty oreof-Labor foroc it tftlg,  overoofon.  -aurtt,ts adoidi
-pete re  supy  ffodpe   ay              etspplyp of food it delined"a                  ehc.ebmrt _entoni)-tci  no  n   femLr  P- tuthcp-it    o
ocqireenofr  ll toutri- -estblished by Uhou p_ondo  for                    aciiyer7eacnea  a   oa,nle   n   eae  no   ooe
aintou  alloaocc o  60 gamo o  totalproten perda,y aed  It gna           enetgaofttl  ml u  fenaI_r fpultlnofal   ge   esec  ory
ofatnlad poles protein, of uhich 10 grana should beacnl9roen.                      Ili  197t and 5975 data.  Tb. eer.          10..rtoPeio          or   efctn
Th Ieedrsae  oe   hntoe  f7   rn   ftoa    rtl n                                a go-ur      ..ocur o- f the pop,Itnt  end long thie tred.  hfew  -nlmte
tA t  h  TId  -orld food S.rocy.
Per atto eo tio uply fron a ioal und color  -trorin supply of loud                 fRnl dccr yrto                  -fhtio of population    dr- 15 end 65 -tdoer
deolnd  fom   ntoes ed pulses in  rmt    e   a, tt -he lehor toro  in agr grop of 15-hi64                                        te
ChIld100  1-4,mrait  aeIe    eadi   - Vne1 doeb    crbo-                               httrthtItlj
d-1rlping coutries data d-iord fro  Pi..hic tetiies                                                                     (.hi~-h   d~td   - fd  ,ic-                         
.AErH                                                                 p.... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ytoe   nIobret2t portent    ---no  Of pett--  a,,d)o-c-f 4torct
moa  Irth; i 100      h....t and I - dac.-tot-hoT'f iOfttoC -O-f-I
o     I_nato   ooPer thoonnd lIon  hjotho.                                        IbouepvryIom   en is that fosov   Iron' ~Icu  0hfth    nimf.ll
5nh    - f pepetot.uboo  ao   ua)ut   ounheoeot                                     ll-rdblo.
__frurrrtpyo    -tlur  troe   ur  0        noo  ceteand bt                    fti _te  -elato ru....y inton Ino              )Ot-a   ts    revdrt
areaorauotahtattntuotla 'ply              ourL-t't    otocotulu   r-t-tOou
pttoo .P,t-  of ttde   -tot.it  'hr f-iltn,            troo



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Paee 4 of ' pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA*
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1978                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7, constant prices)
US $ fiLn.      ,%                      FY1965-70         FY1970-78        FY1965--78
GNP at Market Prices           4,216         100.0                         2.0               3.3              2.8
Gross Capital Formation          595          14.1                       -3.6                2.7             -0.2
Gross Domestic Saving            421          10.0                        0.5               14.8              9.1
Foreign Capital Inflow           175           4.1                        0.2               13.7              8.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            252            6.0                     -13.5                1.6             -4.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            425          10.1                      -10.4               -0.4             -4.1.
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                          Labor Force -                    V. A. Per Worker
US$Mln.        7                       Mln.        %                     US$           7.
Agriculturce? bt               2,017       47.7                     8.5         67.5                   236           70
Industry  -                      491       11.6                     1.2          9.5                   411          123
Services/Trade                 1,721       40.7                     2.4         18.6                   731          218
Not elsewhere specified           *         *                       0.6          4.4
Total                     4,229      100.0                   12.6        100.0                   335           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCt
General Government                               Union Government
(Kyat:s mlin.)      7 of CDP                   (Kyats mln.)        7O of GrP
FY78               FY78                         FY78              FY78
Current Receipts                       5,528_/             18.2 d/                      3,870              12.7
Current Expenditure                    4,148               13.7                         4,054              13.3
Current Surplus                        1,380                4.5                          -184              -0.6
Capital Expenditures                   3,6412-Y            12.0 I/                         607              2.0
External Assistance  (gross)           1,738                5.7
* All data for F11978 are revised estimates of the Government of 3urma.
a/ Total labor force:  unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
b/ Includes livestock, fishery and forestry.
c/ Includes mining, power, and construction.
d/ Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
e/ Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                   Page 5 of 5 pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURMI
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                        1970     1973      1974     1975      1976     1977      1978
(Kyats mln outstanding at end of period)    Sep.        Sep.     Mar.      Mar.      Mar.     Mar.      Mar.
Money and Quasi Money                        2422      3581      4065     5342      6052     6377      6631
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 2616      4342      5040     6447      6663     6468      6869
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 537      1000       685      639       956     1489      1708
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP  /         23.6     30.5      27.7     27.6      25.7      23.6     21.8
Consumer Price Index (1972 = 100) a           91.0    123.5    156.6    206.4    252.6    250.0    236.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon              -4.0      23.5      26.8     31.8      22.4     -1.0      -5.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                  9.1      18.1      16.1     27.9       3.4     -2.9       6.2
Bank credit to Private Sector                  3.9     49.7    -31.5      -6.7      49.6     55.8      14.7
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY1978)
(US$ mln)
FY76      FY77       FY78                                         US SnJ.n     .
(US$ million)
Rice and rice produces               117      50
Merchandise Trade                   -30.9     -47.9    -174.6        Teak                                  53       23
Exports, mainly f.o.b.              179.9     192.8      238.6       Pulses and beans                      10        4
Imports, mainly f.o.b.             -210.8    -240.7    -413.2        Animal feedstuff                       8       3
Services and private transfers    -18.7        -9.4      -12.4       Base metals and ores                  12        5
Official grants (net)                23.3       24.9      18.5       All other commodities                 36      15
Current account              -26.3      -32.4    -168.5                 TOTAL                              100.0
Long-term capital                    25.0       22.4     195.8      EXTERNAL DEBT. March 31, 1978
Foreign loans                        39.8       66.4     169.1
Debt repayment                      -23.1      -39.3     -24.3                                                  US $ ml
Other capital (net)                   8.3       -4.7      51.0        Outstanding & Disbursed                      499.5
Short-term bank credit              -18.3     -18.8      -14.9        Outstanding, ic. Undisbursed                1187.1
Capital account                 6.7       3.6      180.9
Errors and omissions                 -9.2        8.9       2.9      DEBT SERVICE RATIO  FOR CY77
Overall balance              -28.8      -19.9       15.4
Ratio of debt service to
Gross Reserves (end year)           134.9      109.3     124.1           merchandise exports                    19.8
Net Reserves   (end year)            39.7       40.8      28.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                IBRD/;,DA LENDING. June 30, 1979 (Million US$)
Through Dec. 27, 1971    From Feb. 19,1973 to Jan. 25, 1975                                           IBRD         IDA
US $ 1.00 - K 4.76        US $ 1.00 - K 4.81
Outijtanding & Disbursed                         95.6
From Dec. 27, 1971 to    From Jan. 25, 1975 to May 1, 1977  Und:.sbursed                                        106.7
Feb. 19, 1973           SDR 1.00 = K 7.74                     Oututanding incl. Undisbursed                   202.3
US $ 1.00 - K 5.35
From May 2, 1977
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
As of December, 1979
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51
US $ 1.00- K 6.70 (approx.)
a/   Annual average at Rangoon.
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
January 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A. Staitement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of June 30, 1979
US$ Million
Loan or                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and two credits fully disbursed            33.1     32.3
483       1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation               -       17.0        2.3
493       1974  Burma   Forestry                      -       24.0       12.2
551       1975  Burma   Telecommunications            -       21.0        2.3
597       1975  Burma   Livestock                     -        7.5        5.7
642       1976  Burma   Paddyland Development         -       30.0       21.0
671       1977  Burma   Second Ports                  -       10.0        4.6
686       1977  Burma   Tin and Tungsten              -       16.0       14.2
745       1977  Burma   Seed Development              -        5.5        5.4
835       1978  Burma   Paddyland Development II   -          34.5       34.5
879       1979  Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation         -        4.5        4.5
Total                                    33.1    202.3
of which has been repaid              33.1       -
Total now outstanding                      -     202.3
Amount sold                   2.7
of which has been repaid  2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a            -     202.3
Total Undisbursed                                106.7      106.7
Total Disbursed                                   95.6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
The Project Implementation Committee was established on time and
has functioned effectively. An initial procurement of 10,000 pumpsets
(300 g.p.m.) and accessories was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy Indus-
tries Corporation. All of these units have been sold to farmers in the
project area. Favorable costs on various components of the project have been
sufficient to permit the purchase of 3,000 additional low lift pumps. These
units have been delivered and are expected to be sold before August 1979.
The construction of four jute baling plants is nearly completed. Some 545
units of construction equipment were rehabilitated under the equipment repair
program. A reasonable inventory of spare parts remains for future maintenance.
The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments and drainage channels
has been completed. The closing date of the credit has been extended from
December 31, 1978, to March 31, 1980, in order to allow for disbursements
covering consulting services for the preparation of final design and speci-
fications for the proposed Nyaunggyat Dam Project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 10, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
Project implementation continues to improve. Spares availability
has increased, a revolving fund for emergency spare parts has been created
and urgently needed parts are now received via air freight. The Government
has taken effective action to improve mechanical maintenance. Progress in
sawmill rehabilitation and construction is excellent. Teak output has
reached its projected level, but hardwood extraction is presently limited to
about 35% of target due to a shortage of logging trucks. The Government
awarded on January 25, 1979, a contract for 140 trucks and 30 trailers which
will remedy this problem. Fuel supply has been a periodic difficulty, but a
new pipeline and increased refining capacity are expected to improve supply.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 551    Telecommunicaltions Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of May 30,
1975; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Procurement action has been taken on all major items and 95% of the
credit amount has been committed. Due to initial delays in preparation of
specification, procurement and contracting and delays in civil works, execu-
tion of the project is about a year behind schedule.  The OPEC Special Fund
is providing a loan to finance a cost overrun of about $3.1 million. Cost
increases due to the recent exchange variation of the U.S. dollar with respect
to the Japanese yen on committed contracts and a few items of the project
which are rot yet committed are being considered for financing under a pro-
posed secord telecommunications project. The Post and Telecommunications
Corporatiorn, the executing agency, is operating satisfactorily and is meeting
the prescribed rate of return.
Cr. No. 59o    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 2b, 1976; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
The project is now without major problems following a reallocation
of responsibilities amongst project agencies and continuing improvements in
all aspects of implementation. Field services are being provided by the
Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department (VAHD) to all 2,665 villages in
the project: area. The Artificial Insemination Program continues to expand
and milk supplies are increasing as more high producing crossbreds enter the
national herd. Vaccine prodiuction will increase after commissioning of new
equipment in late 1979. Coummunal pastures and village waterpoints are being
developed by VAHD. The Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC)
continues Ito collect milk both from its own farms and from the private
sector, and plans further expansion of private collection. The Government
has agreed to construct the milk plant and have requested interim investment
in the existing plant to meet growing demand for processing facilities. Cost
escalation may necessitate some reallocation of credit funds amongst catego-
ries. The Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary (IAHVS) has shown
considerable implementation improvement -- fellowships training is underway
as is the staff study tour, building program is about 80% complete and many
of the training aids have been procured.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit was declared effective following the establishment of
the Project Implementation Committee and the Project Unit. Delivery has
been made on most of the construction equipment and it is being used
effectively.  The Irrigation Department now believes the construction
program will be completed on schedule. Early in 1977, the Agriculture



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Corporation initiated an intensive agricultural extension program for five
project townships. Village and township level officers have been assigned
full time to extension activities. These officers are carrying out a pro-
gram of periodic and regularly scheduled visits to the farm areas (Training
and Visits Program) which has been well received by farmers. Consultant's
studies on paddy storage and handling have been completed. Consultants began
work on the hydrologic investigations in September 1977. These invenstiga-
tions are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Expected Date of Effectiveness:  March 18, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Spare parts for existing equipment, new cargo handling equipment,
and repair materials have been delivered to Burma Ports Corporation (BPC).
The rehabilitation of the suction dredger has been completed, and the repair
of the bucket dredger is expected to be completed by August 1979. A dredging
expert has been appointed to train dredger crews in Rangoon and two dredger
masters have been in Holland for training. A training specialist visited BPC
to identify training requirements and courses and has submitted proposals to
BPC for various courses and needs.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Following an approximately 9-month delay due to a Government deci-
sion to revise the basic procurement approach, progress on the project has
improved markedly and procurement is nearly complete. The dredge should be
delivered on site by April 1980, which would enable production to commence
only about 4-5 months later than originally scheduled. Training in Malaysia
of operating and supervisory staff has been underway since December 1978.
On-site works are progressing well. It is now expected that the project will
have a cost overrun of about 13% due to the delay, the change in procurement
approach and currency fluctuations. Steps are being taken to obtain financing
for cost overrun.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date:  February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has now been effective for 16 months. Although overall
performance is satisfactory, a delay in staff appointment has affected all
phases of the project and has meant that the technical assistance component
has been less effective. The first batch of 75 key incremental staff was
appointed in May 1979. Overseas training has been delayed one year and has
now been rescheduled over four years to lessen training-induced staff short-
ages. Procurement was initially delayed due to unfamiliarity with IDA



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
procedures and the project currently suffers from delays in procurement for
tractors. Physical development of the project farms should commence by July
1979 when land development equipment is commissioned. The research component
is developing adequately.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
The Project Implementation Committee and the Project Unit have
been established as required and a project director and a project exten-
sion manager have been appointed. Procurement of equipment has been
initiated and construction work will commence next season (January 1980).
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit was declared effective on May 25, 1979.  The project
agency, the Rubber Section of Agriculture Corporation, has performed credit-
ably and the project is off to a very good start. Procurement of all major
1979/80 requirements is underway with tenders already issued for ICB. Satis-
factory arrangements for project staffing were discussed with the March 1979
supervision mission. Preparations for the 1979/80 planting season are well
underway. The UNDP-financed consultants started field activities in May 1979.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
BURMA
FORESTRY II - EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project
5 months
(b) Agencies preparing the project
GOB's Project Preparation Committee
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank
October 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
June 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
November 1979
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  The execution aLnd delivery of the on-lending agreement
(Subsidiary LoaLn Agreement) between the Government and
the TC (paragraph 59).
(b) The establishment of the PSC, the PU(TC), and the PU(FD),
and the appointment of Project Directors for the latter
two units (paragraph 49).
Other Conditions
(a) The Government would prepare, by December 31, 1980, a
program for the development of a Forest Master Plan
(paragraph 45).
(b) The CC would maintain sections of the Rangoon-Mandalay
Highway (paragraph 51).
(c) In the event of deterioration of public roads, the TC
and the CC would enter into an agreement giving the TC
the maintenance responsibilities for such roads
(paragraph 51).
(d)  The BRC and the TC would enter into an agreement under
which wagons Cnd locomotives would be rehabilitated and
unit trains would be operated (paragraph 52).
(e) The Government; would prepare a program for overseas
training by January 31, 1980, and enter into an
agreement with the UNDP for its financing (paragraphs
57 and 58).
(f)  The disbursements for Okkyin sawmill equipment are
contingent upon the sawmill engineer's technical
approval of the rehabilitation plans (paragraph 66).
(g) The TC would establish a Market Research Unit
by July 31, 1980 (paragraph 68).






SHUTAN(                                                                       9 ypn   J000
..     /    h            B"IN~CIIIA                                                  %.j       \ 
EAN6LADESH 5                                                    NDIA
BURMA                                                  "T.
If        /                       -\    ,j<a   LAE;;    =   =   9'  f}  KACHIN    NCHNA
'~~~ ~ '--                                                                 '6TALMJ \ *       3 SA  
I, _,   i 00111 I~R A TF  {V                                          -STATE    i
TI-ALANB     -          260                                             
.   400 RATIO '    ;  '  |0<  00
KAMPRICI15A   NAIj1
CHIN STATE        < '             d                     SHANSTAT
c  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-  OPo.er4o ~~~~~~~~~~~~>>  /  M6.ogyon       ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         POPE'
ARAKANKAAH 
0;  t: iFORESTRY  jl: ii  30 t0, IRpxrSyA9N STATE
EAST:PEGU Y                        PROJECT 0<:  -  f;; f 0 i-0 ;; 0:1 \SA
EAST  PBURA FCRESTRY  f IAST PE(S[ OMA PRO       JECT                     - -  -
BUJRIA JORESTRY I (ARA fINANCEDI)
m        SAi   RDJSAGAlNC  P)ROJECT (ADB PINANCED(                                                                                            140,
MARN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWATY S                =
RIVERS       J                 1                  ,                                              M    \ , ,0001< BANGKOK
--   QVISIONAL EOiJNMQRIES          :         = :                            
-*-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                 ,
f~~~~~~                                                  ~ ~~~~                ~~~ -  - .  L-iT  0ENASSEHIM\ 
.   - '                           /   , iUL.'OF .PA'LA,19
100         200        300         400
KILOMETERS                                                                                             F
D   50  10D       150       200      250        thr5 J.haV"a000V00 l v04000  h0 d T, 00o00m0000   *-00 00 0/ 0l                            _
920                                                   .                        or -                        o d 0






. > t'   > n           X                                   9S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'                                       A9'.        
C H I N A                                                                                          B U R M A
LNOLSfz  <                                                                                                             FORESTRY TT
8B L R A                                                                                    2< EAST PEGU YOMA PROJECT
\ \  2     r ' "t,           *                                                                                   - t  )  RESERVED FORE1ST BO-NDA ES
THAtLATD                                                             A T                                          IT I ED=NG AND A
~~~~~~~                                           &~~~~~~~~OT  PDNMANA                              DOWAYT
Lq      }  g       EEM<OCRAl R AT                                 NORTh    -PIMN                                      = R OFSED ROAD? [AUl WEATHER]
?SRO,db can    0, f -  .EeKA M AJLSEg                                                            ER? W  \y  PRCPOSED PEANTATIORT ADEA
p9         _                                                                                                                 9a  K  5tv/' 0f 9 9 a E S Sr 3E REHARIFAT ED
TAD Sand  - -                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PALP ANA RARER R L.5
- L   ax Tko.;lar   v   (  >\                                   IEXIST NG AND UNDER cOASTRUCTE  ON)
-                 U   '~~~~~~~ORES? RESEARCH rEST TLTE
20D                                                                                                                              B - ,  EAS WORKSHOP
r, METHIN                                                                                      (j    STAT,C WORKSHOP                  2D'
*    ROJECT HEADADARTSER
T- -  NTERPRAT ORIAL BOUP.ARIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~6~ ~~
PYiNMANA                   KM
TCT NORTH
UTCNGOO
\ t . SOUTH  - \ TOUNOOC  -3"!. 1
NORTH PEGS~~~~~~~~~~~~~o"T
SOUTH  TOUNGOO    -E           S       PROJ
E   A4IKT                                          ;'I"4E .EE:- 4IMR R
sw NORTH  P      EGUI  A                          [A
I<~L   K.RDI4IED                                                                                                                     E
OUT  PEGUg OU H    
A T 2   A 4 sE M        P4R  44.IPEGU IIDII'R                                                                                            E4
-17-                                                          2                                  t  9\-(
0         X                         T , maphasbauzov rm                        4                                              . 
xW r.  N   Rh cmv  nchezfthe ra Ksof   >    /    \                                j  I;    - 4 = >    \ 45 S          W~~~~~~~~7



