CONFORMED COPY
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 28 BA
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project)
between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated September 21, 1979


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 28 BA
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1979, between THE SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action
Account established with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of
the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between. the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted by
the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of the
European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purposes of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2,
1978, referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000)
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit); and
(D) the Borrower intends to enter into an agreement with the
Government of Finland (hereinafter called the Finland Agreement)
to assist in the financing of Part G.2 of the Project and, to that
effect, to provide the Borrower with funds in an aggregate princi-
pal amount equivalent to one million four hundred thousand dollars
($1,400,000) upon the terms and conditions set forth in the
Finland Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means IDA acting as the Administrator of the Special
Action Account referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action
Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include IDA acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means IDA acting as Administrator of the
Special Action Account referred to in the Preamble to this Special
Action Credit Agreement; and
(c) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
nine million eight hundred
ten thousand                 Belgian francs         (BF9,810,000);
one million two hundred
twenty one thousand          Danish kroner          (DKl,221,000);
four million seven hundred
fifteen thousand             Deutsche marks         (DM4,715,000);
four million nine hundred
eighty five thousand         French francs          (FF4,985,000);
ten thousand nine hundred    Irish pounds             (IrElO,900);
five hundred seventy eight
million four hundred
thirty three thousand        Italian lire        (ItL578,433,000);
three hundred eight thousand Luxembourg francs        (LF308,000);
one million three hundred
three thousand               Netherlands guilders (DFl 1,303,000);
and
one million two hundred
two thousand one hundred     Pounds sterling         (91,202,100).
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the
Special Action Credit to the Timber Corporation (TC) under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement as provided under Section 3.01 (b) of
the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) exercise its rights
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Special Action Credit, and except as the
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Special Action Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures (i) in the currency of the Borrower, or (ii) for services
supplied from, (A) any of the Member States and (B) any developing
country which is a member of the International Development Associ-
ation and could be the recipient of a special action credit, as
determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Special Action Credit Account shall
be made in the respective currencies in which the expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have
been paid or are payable or, at the option of the Administrator,
in such currency or currencies as the Administrator shall from
time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Special Action Credit Account and outstanding from
time to time. The amounts of service charge in various currencies
so determined, and additional service charges (if any) payable
pursuant to Section 3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be
payable in the currency of the United States of America or,
in another currency selected by the Administrator in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, after their
conversion into such currency on the basis of exchange rates
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05 of
the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by IDA for currencies of other members of
IDA for the purposes of its operations, service charges shall be
payable in such other currency as the Administrator may select for
such purposes and shall notify in writing to the Borrower, where-
upon, commencing thirty days after the date of such notice,
service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1989,
and ending May 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per. cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Special Action Credit
Account as shall be found by multiplying the total amount in each
currency so withdrawn by the applicable installment percentage as
specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Adminis-
trator shall otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to
each payment date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of
fractional currency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from


﻿-6-
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate silvicultural, management, financial and engineering
practices, and    shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose;
and (ii) duly perform all of its obligations set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement as if they were fully set forth
herein.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively for
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Development Credit Agreement
or the Finland Agreement or any grant, loan or


﻿-7-
credit made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor; or
(B) the Development Credit Agreement shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any of the events specified
in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement and of the
Finland Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been duly fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date December 20, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister, or the Deputy Minister of Plan-
ning and Finance of the Borrower, is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Planning and Finance
Office of the Ministers
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s/ U. H1a Shwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit        % of
Allocated (Expressed     Expenditures
Category             in Dollar Equivalents)   to be Financed
(1) Log and bucket load-         6,500,000      )
ers, road graders,                         )   100% of for-
forklift trucks,                           )   eign expendi-
straddle trucks                            )   tures for
and miscellaneous                          )   directly im-
equipment for extrac-                      )   ported equip-
tion and sawmilling                        )   ment and
operations                                 )   100% of lo-
)   cal expendi-
(2) Workshop tools,                500,000      )   tures (ex-
survey equipment and                       )   factory) for
radio equipment for                        )   locally manu-
extraction opera-                          )   factured
tions                                      )   equipment
(3) Unallocated                  1,000,000
TOTAL         8,000,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Special Action Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall
be adjusted accordingly.


﻿- 11 -
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of, and for goods and services supplied from, (i) any
of the Member States and (ii) any developing country, other than
the Borrower, which is a member of the International Development
Association and could be the recipient of a Special Action Credit
as determined by the Administrator.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on services, or on the procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action
Credit decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿- 12 -
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is included in the Borrower's Third Four-Year
Plan (covering FY1979 through FY1982), and constitutes the first
phase of forestry rehabilitation and forest industry development
in the East Pegu Yoma Project Area.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Log Extraction:
Improvement of log extraction capacity:
(i) acquisition of log extraction and log trans-
portation equipment, including bulldozers,
skidders, log loaders, logging trucks with trailers
and self-loading logging trucks;
(ii) provision of spare parts for the rehabilitation of
existing equipment; and
(iii) annual construction of about 475 miles of feeder
roads.
Part B:   Log and Sawnwood Transportation
1.   Road construction and maintenance
Improvement of log transportation and of access to forest
areas through:
(a) Acquisition of equipment, including bulldozers, road
graders, bucket-loaders and dump trucks;
(b) Provision of spare parts for the rehabilitation of
existing vehicles and equipment; and
(c) (i) annual construction and upgrading of about 30 miles
of all-season roads and about 60 miles of extended
logging-season roads; and
(ii) annual maintenance of about 400 miles of roads
including, as required, maintenance of certain
public roads.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Rolling stock
(a) Rehabilitation of: (i) about 190 double-bogie wagons,
including acquisition of bearings, and vacuum brakes; and (ii) 5
locomotives, including overhaul spares for each locomotive.
(b) Establishment of regular railway schedules for the
operation of unit trains for log transportation from Pyinmana to
Rangoon and a train for the collection of timber on the Minbyin-
Pyinmana line.
Part C:   Workshops and Mechanical Maintenance
Construction of new workshops, rehabilitation and expansion
of existing workshops, and provision of equipment and vehicles.
Part D:   Sawmilling
Increase of hardwood and teak sawmilling capacity and reduc-
tion of timber wastage through:
1.   Construction of 2 new hardwood sawmills, respectively located
in the North and South Pegu extraction agencies.
2.   Rehabilitation of about 16 existing hardwood sawmills
throughout the Project Area.
3.   Provision of spare parts and equipment for about 14 hired
hardwood sawmills in the Project Area.
4.   Rehabilitation of the Okkyin Teak Mill located in Rangoon.
5.   Provision of urgently needed spare parts to other teak
sawmills in Rangoon.
Part E:   Administration, Planning and Marketing
1.   Provision of equipment and vehicles and strengthening of the
export activities of TC's Marketing and Milling Department in
Rangoon.
2.   Provision -of vehicles, radios, and equipment for improved
Project administration.
3.   Construction of administration buildings.


﻿- 15 -
Part F:   Plantations
Increase of teak production and identification of new fast
growing species through:
1.   Establishment of: (a) about 29,500 acres of teak plantations;
and (b) about 6,000 acres of large scale trial plantations of fast
growing species.
2.   Establishment of 18 Plantation Centers.
3.   Acquisition of vehicles and equipment, including bulldozers,
crawler tractors, wheel tractors, dump trucks, and small miscel-
laneous plantation and survey equipment, and office and workshop
equipment.
4.   Construction of permanent and temporary offices, residential
and operational buildings for plantation operations.
Part G:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of about 137 man-months of overseas training for
TC and FD staff.
2.   Provision of about 16 man-years of foreign technical consul-
tancy assistance, including about:
(a) 3 man-years of workshop management and engineering
services to PU-TC;
(b) 3-1/2 man-years of mechanic training and in-field
mechanic assistance to PU-TC;
(c) 3 man-years of logging engineering assistance to PU-TC;
(d) 2 man-years of sawmill engineering services to PU-TC;
(e) 22 man-months of foreign consultancy and 48 man-months
of local consultancy assistance in management accounting and
management information systems to PU-TC; and
(f) 2-1/2 man-years of silvicultural assistance to FD.
3.   Provision of about 1 man-year of technical assistance to TC
for plant operator training to be provided by equipment suppliers.


﻿- 16 -
4.   Provision of about 2 man-years of local road engineering
technical assistance services and about 2 man-years of local
surveying assistance services to PU-TC.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof and subject to the
eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Items of goods shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with appropriate technical
standards and procurement practices.
3.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Administrator shall
reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Administrator that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Burma equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs


﻿- 19 -
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated
bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Parts A and B above,
contracts for the purchase of equipment, spare parts and materials
(and the groupings thereof) which are either required urgently
or otherwise not suited to be procured under Parts A and B above
and which are estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
US$100,000 each and which do not exceed, in the aggregate, the
equivalent of US$1,000,000, may be awarded to independent sup-
pliers from (i) any of the Member States and (ii) any developing
country, other than the Borrower, which is a member of the Inter-
national Development Association and could be the recipient of a
Special Action Credit as determined by the Administrator, in
accordance with local procurement procedures satisfactory to the
Association, and after obtaining a minimum of three price quo-
tations from three such independent suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated each to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends to


﻿- 20 -
award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the eva-
luation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Administrator
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Administrator, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


