Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H6120 -CA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant) 
 
between 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 9, 2010  
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Page  2
-2- 
 
AGREEMENT dated October 9, 2010, 2010, entered into between the CENTRAL 
AFRICAN REPUBLIC
 (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, inter alia, of the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to up to five million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,800
,000) (variously, “Grant” and 
“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-3- 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
An Additional Event of Suspension shall occur if a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:   
The Association 
is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program and 
with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-4- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of State for Planning, 
Economy and International Cooperation (or any Permitted Successor). 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Minister of State for Planning, Economy and International Cooperation 
Ministry of Planning, Economy and International Cooperation 
Rue Martin Luther King 
BP 696, Bangui 
Central African Republic 
Facsimile: 
+
236-21-619689 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-5- 
 
AGREED at Washington DC, USA, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By //s// Sylvain Maliko 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By //s// Mary Barton-Dock 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
Program include the following:
 
1. (A) 
The 
Recipient’s commitment plans (
programmes d’emplois
)
for the year 2010 in 
respect of each Priority Sector Ministry have been approved, in each case, by (i) the 
“
ordonnateur
”
(i.e., the relevant Priority Sector Ministry); (ii) the Recipient’s credit 
administrator (
administrateur de crédit
)
within the Recipient’s Ministry of Plan, 
Economy and International Cooperation; and (iii) the Recipient’s Director of Financial 
Control (
Directeur du Contrôle Financier
)
within the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance 
and Budget, and (B) procurement plans (
plans prévisionnelles de passation de marchés
), 
consistent with the associated commitment plans, have been adopted, in each case, by: 
(i) 
the relevant Priority Sector Ministry; (ii) the Recipient’s General Director of Public 
Procurement (
Directeur Général des Marchés Publics
); and (iii) the Recipient’s Ministry 
of Finance and Budget. 
2. 
The Recipient's Minister of Finance and Budget has adopted and publicly disclosed (e.g., 
in newspapers) the Arrears Order setting forth, 
inter alia
,
eligibility criteria for the 
settlement of arrears in respect of commercial suppliers under the Domestic Arrears 
Clearance Plan. 
3. 
The budget nomenclature under the Recipient's 2010 budget law (
loi de finances 2010
)
has been harmonized with the accounting nomenclature under the Recipient's 2010 
accounting plan (
plan comptable 2010
), which is based on current OHADA norms. 
4. 
The Recipient's Minister of Finance and Budget has adopted the Tax Exoneration 
Instruction Note which sets forth, 
inter alia
,
guidelines and procedures for the processing 
of tax exemptions in the Recipient's territory as well as the requirement for the 
Recipient's Director of Tax Administration (
Directeur Général des Impôts et des 
Domaines
)
and the Recipient's Director of Customs (
Directeur Général des Douanes)
 to 
each provide to the CICEFD, on a monthly basis, the list of approved tax exemptions. 
5. 
The CMAEA’s Secretariat has (1) prepared reports that, 
inter alia
,:
(i) identify the costs 
related to the creation of business and the transfer of urban commercial real property 
(
mutation d’immeubles urbains bâtis et non-bâtis),
 (ii) identify the relevant laws and 
regulations relating to these costs, and (iii) propose measures to be taken to reduce these 
costs by amendment or repeal of these laws and regulations; and (2) submitted such 
reports to CEMAEA. 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the Recipient 
under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Recipient's Court of Account has published its report on the implementation of the 
Recipient's 2008 budget law (
loi des finances 2008
)
and the Recipient's Ministry of 
Page  7
-7- 
 
Finance and Budget has submitted the 2008 budget review law (
loi de reglement 2008
)
to 
the Recipient's Parliament. 
2. 
The ARMP has endorsed a report which assesses the Recipient’s compliance with the 
provisions of the Procurement Code and identifies any necessary corrective measures. 
3. 
The Recipient has settled at least CFAF500,000,000 of arrears due to small- and medium-
businesses in accordance with the Arrears Order. 
4. 
The Recipient has adopted: (i) a framework document for a national tracking system, and 
(ii) a framework document for a system of verification of the legality of timber 
productions, in compliance with FLEGT. 
5. 
The Recipient has posted on official websites its second EITI report covering years 2007, 
2008 and 2009, and such report has been disseminated in the Recipient’s territory. 
6. 
The Recipient has adopted legislation and/or regulations on the downstream petroleum 
sector which: (i) set forth the respective roles and responsibilities of each of the ASRP, 
SOCASP and the Recipient’s Ministry of Mines and Energy (
Ministère des mines et de 
l’énergie
)
in the downstream petroleum sector; and (ii) set forth the methodology for 
determining the price of petroleum products
 in the Recipient’s territory. 
7. 
An audit report on, 
inter alia
,
the use of funds by the ASRP has been prepared by an 
independent consultant(s) and endorsed by the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and 
Budget. 
8. 
The Recipient has reduced administrative costs arising from (A) the creation of a 
business and (B) the transfer of urban commercial real property (
mutation d’immeubles 
urbains bâtis et non-bâtis) 
by
amending the Recipient’s Registration Code (
Code de 
l’enregistrement
)
so as to reduce the registration fees in connection with: (i) the creation 
of a business; and (2) the transfer of urban commercial real property (
mutation 
d’immeubles urbains bâtis et non-bâtis)
,
each by at least fifty percent (50%). 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in two withdrawal 
tranches, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Page  8
-8- 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
(1) First Withdrawal Tranche 
 
2,900,000 
 
(2) Second Withdrawal Tranche 
 
2,900,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
5,800,000 
 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the First Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient, 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
2. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Sections 3.01 
(a) and (b) of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
 
(a) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
 
(b) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
appropriate; and  
 
(c) 
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have 
been taken.  
 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after the 
notice, the Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with 
respect to paragraphs (a),(b) and (c) above, then the Association may, by notice 
to the Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Unwithdrawn Financing Balance. 
 
D.  Deposit of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
the Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain, a dedicated 
account in CFAF (“Dedicated Accounts”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank;   
 
Page  9
-9- 
 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall 
be deposited by the Association into the Dedicated Account; and 
 
3. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into the Dedicated Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
F. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Dedicated Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available in a timely 
fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Association; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Dedicated 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
G. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
H. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is April 1, 2011. 
 
Page  10
-10- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“ASRP” means the Recipient’s Agency for Petroleum Product Price Stabilization and 
Regulation (
Agence de Stabilisation et de Régulation des Prix des Produits Pétroliers
)
established pursuant to the Recipient’s law N° 07.006 of April 24, 2007 entitled “
Loi 
No.07.006 portant création de l’Agence de Stabilisation et de Régulation des Prix des 
Produits Pétroliers
”.  
 
2. 
“ARMP” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (
Autorité de 
Régulation des Marchés Publics
)
established pursuant to the Recipient’s decree N°09.058 
of February 27, 2009 entitled “
Décret No09.058 portant Organisation et Fonctionnement 
de l’Autorité de Régulation des Marchés Publics de la République Centrafricaine
”. 
 
3. 
“Arrears Order” means order no. 361/10/MFB/DIR-CAB dated August 3, 2010 defining 
the criteria and procedures for the settlement of arrears adopted by the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Finance and Budget.  
 
4. 
“CMAEA” means the Recipient’s Joint Committee responsible for the Improvement of 
Business Environment (
Comite Mixte chargé de l’Amélioration de l’Environnement des 
Affaires
)
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Prime Minister’s order N° 002 of April 
15, 2010. 
 
5. 
“CICEFD” means the Recipient’s inter-ministerial committee in charge of customs and 
tax exemptions (
comité interministérielle chargé des exonérations fiscales et des 
douanes
)
established pursuant to the Recipient’s decree No07.380 of December 27, 2007 
entitled “
Décret No07.380 portant création d’un comité interministériel chargé des 
exonérations fiscales et des douanières en date du 27 décembre 2007
”. 
 
6. 
“CFAF” means the lawful currency of the Recipient, which is the Central African CFA 
(Financial Cooperation in Central Africa (
Coopération financière en Afrique centrale
") 
franc, issued by the Bank of Central African States (
Banque des États de l'Afrique 
Centrale
).  
 
7. 
“Dedicated Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1(a) of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Domestic Arrears Clearance Plan” means the plan adopted by the Recipient in 
November 2008 relating to the reduction of its domestic debt. 
 
9. “EITI” 
means 
the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a coalition of 
governments, companies, civil society groups, investors and international organizations 
which aims to strengthen governance by improving transparency and accountability in 
the extractives sector.  
 
10. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
Page  11
-11- 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party); 
 
Page  12
-12- 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
 
11. 
“First Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “First Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“FLEGT” means the 
European Union's Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade 
(FLEGT) action plan approved by the Council of the European Union in October 2003.
 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth 
in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
14. 
“Permitted Successor” means, to the extent there no longer is a position of Recipient 
Minister of State for Planning, Economy and International Cooperation, the minister who, 
at the time, represents to the Association’s satisfaction to be duly authorized pursuant to 
the laws of the Recipient to take any action under the Legal Agreements for and on behalf 
of the Recipient. 
 
15. 
“Priority Sector Ministry” means each of the Recipient’s (i) Ministry of Health (
Ministère 
de la Santé
); (ii) Ministry of Disenclavement and Equipment (
Ministère du 
Désenclavement et de l’Equipment
); (iii) Ministry of Transport (
Ministère du Transport
); 
(iv) Ministry of National Education (
Ministère de l’Education Nationale
); (v) Ministry of 
Social Affairs (
Ministère des Affaires Sociales
); (vi) Ministry of Rural Development 
(
Ministère du Développement Rural
); and (vii) Ministry of Energy and Water (
Ministère 
de l’Energie et de l’Hydraulique
). 
 
16. 
“Procurement Code” means the Recipient’s new procurement code established pursuant 
to the Recipient’s law N° 08.017 of June 6, 2008.  
 
17. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated August 18, 2010 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
18. 
“Second Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Second Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section 
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  13
-13- 
 
19. 
“SOCASP” means 
Société Centrafricaine de Stockage des Produits Pétroliers
,
the 
Recipient’s state-owned company operating in the storage of petroleum products. 
 
20. 
“Tax Exoneration Instruction Note” means the instruction note adopted on August 3, 
2010 pursuant to a ministerial instruction (
instruction ministérielle
)
no.751/10/MFB/DIR-
CAB by the Recipient's Minister of Finance and Budget. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  14
-14- 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
