Page  1
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
Report No. AB5709 
Operation Name 
Central African Republic
—Economic Management and 
Governance Reform Grant III 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General Public Administration Sector; Energy and Mining; 
Forestry, Private Sector, Law and Justice.  
Project ID 
P120534 
Borrower(s) 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Planning, Economy and International Cooperation 
Date PID Prepared 
April 30, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 10, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 30, 2010 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1
The Central African Republic (CAR), a post-conflict country with a rich natural resource 
base, is striving to achieve a transition from extended periods of instability to growth and 
development. Since the end of the conflict in 2003, the government has pursued prudent 
macroeconomic policies and implemented important structural reforms. Between 2004 and 2007, 
real GDP growth averaged 2.7 percent a year. At the sectoral level the government has adopted a 
new forestry code and implementing decrees to enhance transparency and competition in 
awarding forest concessions; the mining code was revised to address its previous weaknesses, 
and the government adopted a new standard form agreement to attract new investment from 
small as well as larger enterprises. The government has also implemented a range of governance 
reforms, which have focused on actions to fight corruption, increase transparency and 
accountability in the use of public resources, and improve public financial management. Partly as 
a
result of these reform efforts CAR reached the HIPC completion point in June 2009.  
 
2
Notwithstanding these achievements, CAR remains vulnerable to a variety of shocks. In 
2008 and early 2009 a series of domestic and external shocks hit the economy; first the 
breakdown of the major hydro-power plant, followed by the worldwide price hike for food and 
fuel, and then the global financial crisis and recession. These events led to a marked slowdown in 
growth, accelerated inflation and a higher current account deficit in 2008. Facing falling world 
demand and declining commodity prices, CAR’s main exports, timber and diamonds, contracted 
sharply in 2009. As a result, real GDP growth is projected to decrease further from 2.0 percent in 
2008 to 1.7 percent in 2009. However, average inflation is projected to fall significantly in 2009, 
Page  2
reflecting improved agricultural production as well as the reversal of the food and fuel price hike 
in 2008. The current account balance is also projected to improve in 2009 owing to 
improvements in the terms of trade, resulting from lower oil prices and rising diamond prices.  
 
3. 
In response to the financial crisis, fiscal policy has been geared to supporting aggregate 
demand with a focus on expanding public investment. Limited resources, including grants, as 
well as weak implementation capacities make it hard for the government to maintain its priority 
spending program in education, health, agriculture, social welfare and infrastructure. At the same 
time the poverty assessment based on the 2008 household survey shows that the incidence of 
poverty remains high, at 62 percent of the population, and is widespread in rural areas, at 70 
percent. To cushion the impact of the global slowdown on the poor and vulnerable groups, the 
government needs fiscal space to protect and increase priority spending, which is intended to 
address the basic needs of the population. To ensure that the fiscal space would be used most 
effectively to support long-term growth and achieve policy objectives as defined in the PSRP and 
the Millennium Development Goals, CAR also needs to continue to enhance basic fiscal 
institutions, improve the quality of governance, and ameliorate the business environment for 
private sector investment.  
 
4. 
CAR’s PRSP, adopted in 2007 by the government for the period 2008-10, provides a 
comprehensive framework for the authorities’ growth and poverty alleviation objectives. The 
PRSP has four strategic pillars, which represent the core strategic areas of intervention: (i) 
restore security, consolidate peace and prevent conflict; (ii) promote good governance and the 
rule of law; (iii) rebuild and diversify the economy; and (iv) develop human capital.  
 
Proposed objective (s) 
 
5. 
The proposed Third Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant (EMGRG 
III) supports the implementation of the government’s poverty reduction strategy as set out in the 
PRSP. It provides fiscal space through the Crisis Response Window (CRW) to complement the 
government’s efforts to protect its public expenditure program in priority sectors, including 
education, health, agriculture, social welfare and infrastructure, and limit the poverty impact of 
the global economic crisis. To this end, the proposed operation continues the reform program 
prepared under EMGRG I and EMGRG II further deepening it to promote an effective utilization 
of resources, and extending it to support private sector development. More specifically, the 
EMGRG III reform program aims to improve transparency and efficiency in the management of 
public resources and promote private sector development through: (i) improved public finance 
management, which includes reforms aimed at strengthening budget execution and reporting, 
including public procurement, and broadening the tax base to increase domestic revenue; (ii) a
 
more enabling environment to stimulate economic activity and improve governance in the 
forestry, mining, and petroleum sectors; and (iii) a reduction in the cost of doing business.  
 
Preliminary description 
 
6. 
The proposed EMGRG III supports two of the four pillars of the PRSP: (i) good 
governance and the rule of the law, and (ii) rebuilding and diversifying the economy. It supports 
reforms in three key areas: (a) developing a sound public finance management system; (b) 
Page  3
strengthening public sector and economic governance; and (c) improving the business 
environment. The grant is aligned with the objectives of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 
for the period 2009-2012, developed jointly by the World Bank Group and the African 
Development Bank (AfDB) and presented to the Board in July 2009, and contributes directly to 
the expected outcomes of the CPS. The reform program will be supported by the LICUS III grant 
designed to deepen reforms in public finance management and public administration, and 
enhance governance and the business environment; and the IDF grant, which aims to strengthen 
capacity in public procurement. The EMGRG III will coordinate closely with the IMF program 
and budget support operations planned by the AfDB and European Union. The reforms 
supported by the proposed operation are expected to result in:  
 
·
Increased efficiency and effectiveness of budget execution in priority sectors; 
·
Strengthened planning and enforcement of procurement law and regulations;  
·
Strengthened oversight of budget execution; 
·
Improved control over discretionary tax and customs exemptions;  
·
Improved tracking and verification system of timber production;  
·
Increased transparency in the management of mineral revenues; 
·
Strengthened regulatory framework in the petroleum sector; and 
·
Reduced cost of doing business. 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
7. 
CAR has made considerable progress in improving economic performance. It has 
improved fiscal management, maintained macroeconomic stability and implemented important 
structural reforms; but it is vulnerable to a variety of shocks and faces many challenges in 
implementing its poverty reduction strategy. The proposed EMRG III will assist the government 
in responding to the global financial crisis by providing fiscal space to limit the impact of the 
crisis on growth and poverty and consolidate the reform program supported by the previous 
operations.  
 
Environment Aspects 
 
8. 
The reforms supported by the proposed EMGRG III are unlikely to have significant 
negative impacts on the country’s environment, forest and other natural resources. The reforms 
aim primarily to enhance the systems and procedures that govern the execution and reporting of 
the budget, ameliorate revenue administration, improve governance, and strengthen the policy 
and institutional framework in key economic sectors. The Government adopted an 
Environmental Code in December 2007; in addition, an Inter-ministerial Committee, including 
representatives from the Ministry of Environment, has been set up to help mainstream 
environmental assessments in investment projects. Moreover, all new investment projects are 
now required to include an environmental assessment; and a new Country Environmental 
Analysis, which will include an analysis of climate change management issues, is under 
preparation with assistance from the Bank.  
 
Tentative financing
 
($million) 
Source: 
Page  4
Borrower/Recipient                                                                                             0.00 
International Development Association (IDA)                                                   9.70 
Total                                                                                                                    9.70 
 
Contact Point: 
Public Information Center 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC  20433 
Tel: 202.458.4500 
Fax: 202.522.1500 
Mail: Rm J1-060 
 
Mr. Gerard Kambou 
Task Team Leader 
Room: J9-111 
Phone: 32386 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
 
