Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5952 
Operation Name 
Economic Management and Governance Reform Grant III 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (85%); Mining and other 
extractive (5%); Forestry (5%); Micro-and SME finance (5%) 
Project ID 
P120534 
Borrower(s) 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Planning, Economy, and International Cooperation 
Bangui 
Central African Republic 
Tel: (236-75) 511-102  
Date PID Prepared 
August 24, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 10, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
September 21, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Central African Republic (CAR), a post-conflict country with a rich natural resource base, is 
striving to achieve a transition from extended periods of instability to growth and development. 
Since the end of the conflict in 2003, the government has pursued prudent macroeconomic 
policies and implemented important structural reforms. Between 2006 and 2008, real GDP 
growth averaged 3.2 percent annually. At the sectoral level the government has adopted a new 
forestry code and implementing decrees to enhance transparency and competition in awarding 
forest concessions; the mining code was revised to address its previous weaknesses, and the 
government adopted a new standard form agreement to attract new investment from small as 
well as larger enterprises. The government has also implemented a range of governance reforms 
which have focused on actions to fight corruption, increase transparency and accountability in 
the use of public resources, and improve the public financial management (PFM) system. Partly 
as a result of these reform efforts CAR reached the HIPC completion point in June 2009.  
 
Notwithstanding these achievements, CAR remains vulnerable to a variety of shocks. In 2008 
and early 2009 a series of domestic and external shocks hit the economy; first the breakdown of 
the major hydro-power plant, followed by the worldwide price hike for food and fuel, and then 
the global financial crisis and recession. These events led to a marked slowdown in growth, 
accelerated inflation and a higher current account deficit in 2008. Low external demand and a 
steep fall in prices caused 
CAR’s main exports, timber and diamond, to contract sharply in 2009. 
The forestry sector was particularly hard hit; timber production fell by 37 percent, exports 
declined by 29 percent in volume terms, revenues decreased sharply and employment contracted. 
Diamond production and exports fell by 18 percent. As a result real GDP growth, which had 
slowed from 3.7 percent in 2007 to 2 percent in 2008, weakened further to 1.7 percent in 2009. 
Compared to the period 2006-2008, this represents an overall reduction of real GDP of 1.5 
percentage points. However, average inflation is projected to fall significantly in 2009, reflecting 
improved agricultural production as well as the reversal of the food and fuel price hike in 2008. 
Page  2
The current account balance is also projected to improve in 2009 owing to improvements in the 
terms of trade, resulting from lower oil prices and rising diamond prices.  
 
In response to the global financial crisis, fiscal policy has been geared to supporting aggregate 
demand through government spending with a focus on expanding public investment in priority 
sectors, including education, health and infrastructure. Limited resources as well as weak 
implementation capacities make it hard for the government to maintain its priority sector 
spending program to provide basic services to the population. At the same time the poverty 
assessment based on the 2008 household survey shows that the incidence of poverty remains 
high, at 62 percent of the population, and is widespread in rural areas, at 70 percent. A particular 
concern is that the growth slowdown is likely to hamper improvements in public services that are 
needed if CAR is to move toward the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). To cushion the 
impact of the global slowdown on the poor and vulnerable groups, the government needs fiscal 
space to protect and increase priority spending. To ensure that the fiscal space would be used 
most effectively to support long-term growth and achieve policy objectives as defined in the 
PSRP and the MDGs, CAR would also need to continue to enhance basic fiscal institutions that 
support a sound PFM system , improve the quality of governance, and ameliorate the business 
environment for private sector investment.  
 
CAR’s PRSP, adopted in 2007 by the government for the period 2008-10, provides a 
comprehensive framework for the authorities’ growth and poverty alleviation objectives. The 
PRSP has four strategic pillars, which represent the core strategic areas of intervention: (i) 
restore security, consolidate peace and prevent conflict; (ii) promote good governance and the 
rule of law; (iii) rebuild and diversify the economy; and (iv) develop human capital.  
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed grant is designed to provide fiscal space to the CAR to protect priority sector 
spending and mitigate the effects of the global financial crisis. It supports the continued 
implementation of the reform program aimed at improving transparency and efficiency in the 
management of public resources and extends it to include aspects of private sector development. 
More specifically, the objectives of the proposed grant are to improve transparency and 
efficiency in the management of public resources and promote private sector development 
through reforms aimed at: (i) strengthening budget execution and reporting as well as public 
procurement, and improving revenue administration to increase domestic revenue, with the view 
to expand public investment in priority sectors; (ii) strengthening the regulatory framework in 
the forestry, mining and petroleum sectors so that they can continue to be a source of sustainable 
growth, employment creation and incomes; and (iii) improving the business environment by 
reducing the cost of doing business. The proposed grant will contribute to the expected outcomes 
of the Country Partnership Strategy for the period 2009-2012 and support implementation of the 
government’s poverty reduction strategy. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
CAR has made considerable progress in improving economic performance. It has improved 
fiscal management, maintained macroeconomic stability and implemented important structural 
Page  3
reforms; but although the economy has bottomed out in 2009, it remains vulnerable to terms of 
trade shocks and the government faces many challenges in implementing its poverty reduction 
strategy. The proposed EMGRG III will assist the government in responding to the global 
financial crisis by providing fiscal space to limit the impact of the crisis on growth and poverty 
and consolidate the reform program supported by the previous operations. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source:          US$million 
Borrower/Recipient                                                                                                  0.0 
International Development Association (IDA)                                                         8.8 
Total                                                                                                                         8.8 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The monitoring of the program will be performed by the CTP/PAS, the committee for the 
monitoring of adjustment programs, in collaboration with the bodies that have participated in the 
management of the preceding programs, including the two programs supported by the IMF and 
the World Bank and other donors who provide budget support to the Central African Republic. 
The CTP/PAS will meet as needed with all relevant sector ministries and government 
departments to monitor the program; and it will regularly produce reports that will be transmitted 
to the World Bank until the program is concluded. The bodies represented in the Inter-ministerial 
Steering Committee comprise the ministries involved in the implementation of the program and 
specifically include the Ministries of: Finance and Budget, Planning, Economy and International 
Cooperation, Mines, Energy and Water management, Water Resources and Forests, Trade, 
SMEs/SMIs and the Committee for the Improvement of the Business Environment (CMAEA). 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed EMGRG III supports two of the four pillars of the PRSP: (i) good governance and 
the rule of the law, and (ii) rebuilding and diversifying the economy. It supports reforms in three 
key areas: (a) developing a sound public finance management system; (b) strengthening public 
sector and economic governance; and (c) improving the business environment. The reforms 
supported by the proposed operation are expected to result in:  
 
·
Increased efficiency and effectiveness of budget execution in priority sectors; 
·
Strengthened planning and enforcement of procurement law and regulations;  
·
Strengthened oversight of budget execution; 
·
Improved control over discretionary tax and customs exemptions;  
·
Improved tracking and verification system of timber production;  
·
Increased transparency in the management of mineral revenues; 
·
Strengthened regulatory framework in the petroleum sector; and 
·
Reduced cost of creating a business and transferring property. 
 
The reform program faces five kinds of risks. First, the security situation remains fragile owing 
to continued clashes between the national armed forces and a splinter rebel group in the north, 
Page  4
and the slow implementation of the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) 
program. Increased insecurity could affect the composition of expenditures away from public 
investment. Second, the vote by Parliament to extend the mandate o
f
President Bozizé until the 
elections can be held has reduced the risk of a constitutional vacuum; and, on July 30, 2010 a 
presidential decree fixed the date of the presidential and legislative elections to January 23, 2011 
to which civil society, political parties, and ex-rebel groups have agreed. While this consensus on 
the election dates bodes well for political stability, continued uncertainty about their timing could 
affect the pace of reforms. Third, a prolonged global economic slowdown could lead to slower 
growth, larger current account deficit, and deterioration in debt indicators. Fourth, financial 
controls remain weak, which may limit the impact of the proposed operation; and fifth, 
constraints to the implementation of reforms persist due to weak institutional capacity 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The actions supported by the proposed grant are expected to have positive poverty and social 
impacts. By protecting priority sector spending the grant seeks to contribute to limit the negative 
consequences of the economic slowdown on poverty, malnutrition, health and schooling. The 
grant resources will generate fiscal space to allow the government to devote additional public 
resources towards education, health, and infrastructure services, which benefit the poor.  
 
The proposed operation continues to support Government’s efforts to promote a sustainable 
exploitation of forestry resources. Since 2005, timber exports have been monitored on behalf of 
the Government by an independent body with the mandate to ensure compliance with operational 
requirements from logging sites to export points. Ensuring transparent information and the 
integrity of the traceability system of the logging and commercialization cycle will complement 
existing tools such as inspection of waybills for transportation of timber products, mill entry and 
exit books, and the cross-checking of species and volumes of timber exported with the collection 
of equivalent export taxes. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Gerard Kambou 
Title: Senior Economist, AFTP3 
Tel: (202) 473-2386 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: gkambou@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  5
