Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17378
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2625-MAG)
February 13, 1998
Country Department 8
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =          Malagasy franc (MGF)
Average in FMG per US dollar
1993                   1,914
1994                   3,067
1995                   4,266
1996                   4,053
1997                   5,101
Source: Central Bank of Madagascar
Note: the MGF began floating on May 1, 1994
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                           U.S. Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)          =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =     0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            =     2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)          =     2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFD            :  Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CNC            :  National Coordination Committee
CRESAN             Health Sector Improvement Project
CRESED             Education Sector Improvement Project
EDF            :  European Development Fund
ERP                Emergency Rehabilitation Project
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organization
OPEC           :  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PE2                Second Environmental Program
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:            Michael Sarris
Task Manager:                Christian Rey
ICR prepared by:             Lionel Laurant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2625-MAG)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface ....................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................               ii
PART I.   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background ...................................................1
1. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...............................2
Statement of objectives ...................................................2
Evaluation of objectives ...................................................3
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES ...................................................4
lII. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...................................7
Factors not generally subject to Government Control ................................7
Factors under the Control of the Authorities/Executing agencies ..............7
Economic analysis ...................................................8
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ........................8
V. BANK AND THE BORROWER PERFORMANCE .....................................9
Bank Performance ...................................................9
Borrower Performance ..................................................     10
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..................................................            11
VII. MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS .................................I ............. 11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PART II.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................... 13
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements
Table 5:    Program Performance Indicators
Table 6:    Project Studies
Table 7:    Project Costs
Table 8:    Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Table 1 1:    Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
Table 12:    Use of Bank Resources -- Missions
APPENDICES
Annex A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire
Annex B.    Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report
Annex C.    Overview of rehabilitation works by the Swiss
Cooperation Agency
Annex D.    Breakdown of the program by source of financing..
MAP:        IBRD Map No. 25672
(Madagascar Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2625-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cyclone Emergency
Rehabilitation Project to the Republic of Madagascar, for which Credit 2625-MAG in the
amount of SDR 9.3 million (US$ 13.1 million) was approved on June 9, 1994 and made
effective on September 29, 1994.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, six months behind schedule. As of
February 2, 1998, SDR 8.69 million was disbursed. If, as expected, an additional SDR
0.23 million is disbursed before the end of the grace period, the remaining amount of
SDR .38 million will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Lionel Laurant, Consultant (AFTM3) and reviewed by Mr.
Michael Sarris, Country Director, Jerome Chevallier, Manager (Operations Support),
Yusupha Crookes, Sector Manager (Transport), Jeffrey Racki, Sector Manager (Water
and Urban), Christian Rey, Task Manager, and James Otis Wright, Technical Specialist.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission on August 4-
15, 1997 (the mission's Aide Memoire is presented in Annex A). The Borrower
contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's implementation
(Annex B).



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2625-MAG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Background: in early 1994, Madagascar experienced two consecutive cyclones
of rare intensity. On January 13, 1994, cyclone Daisy hit the east coast of the country,
crossing the island from east to west and proceeding down the west coast. Three weeks
later, on February 2, 1994, cyclone Geralda hit the east coast again at the port of
Toamasina, which handles about 90% of the country's external trade, and followed the
transport corridor between Toamasina and the capital Antananarivo.
2.    Exceptional rainfall and winds, unabated by ineffective watersheds, caused
extensive damage to roads, railways, buildings and irrigation schemes in all parts of the
country, particularly the eastern provinces of Toamasina and Antananarivo. The
economic and social loss caused by the two cyclones was significant. About 60 people
were reported killed and over 60,000 left homeless in the capital alone. The temporary
closing of the Toamasina-Antananarivo road and railway caused food and energy
shortages in the capital, leading to sharp increases in the price of essential goods and
generating economic hardship among the poorest segments of the population.
3.    A Bank identification mission visited Madagascar on February 13, 1994, one
week after the Government's official request for assistance, to assess the damage and
associated needs, evaluate the country's readiness to react promptly, and assist the
Government in preparing an outline for a reconstruction program with other donors.
Following the mission's recommendations, the Bank acted to reallocate funds from
ongoing credits and extend an emergency IDA credit to finance the rehabilitation of
essential assets damaged by the cyclones. A Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(ERP) was negotiated with Govermment on April 20, 1994 and approved by the Executive
Directors on June 9, 1994. It was made effective on September 29, 1994, one week
behind schedule. The total cost of the IDA-financed rehabilitation program was
estimated at US$28.8 million (including US$6 million financed by the Government). In
addition to the Emergency Rehabilitation Credit, in an amount of US$13.1 million, funds
under eight credits, totalling US$9.7 million, were applied toward urgent rehabilitation in
accordance with their respective objectives.
4.    Project objectives: the IDA component of the emergency program, to provide
critical support not covered by other donors, was aimed at: (i) supporting the physical and
economic rehabilitation of the areas damaged by the two cyclones by providing urgent
assistance to promptly restore essential facilities (roads, public buildings, urban streets,
port, protection dikes, agricultural production facilities); (ii) further developing measures



iii
to minimize potential damage from future natural disasters (construction of coastal
defense works in Toamasina); (iii) supporting appropriate institutional arrangements for
efficient coordination; and (iv) developing appropriate methods to protect the immediate
environment of transport infrastructure (watershed protection and risk management
study).
5.    The rehabilitation project, designed as the Bank's rapid response to the
Government's request for urgent assistance, was commensurate with the extent of the
damage caused in the country. The scale of the disaster, both on human life and
productive assets, and its significant effect on the poor, was such as to warrant special
and urgent Bank support. The ERP was well in line with the Bank's assistance strategy
to Madagascar, aimed at promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty alleviation
in a context of macroeconomic stability. The restoration of reliable infrastructure and
health and education facilities, identified as a key ingredient to economic and human
resource development in Madagascar, provided a consistent response to the country's
strategic needs in the context of the emergency situation created by the 2 cyclones.
6.    Implementation Experience and Results: Madagascar's performance under the
Emergency Rehabilitation project was satisfactory overall. Under the monitoring of a
National Coordination Commnittee (CNC), established with support from the 1984
Cyclone Emergency Recovery Credit, most physical components under the project were
successfully completed, usually to much improved standards, and all studies were
undertaken as planned.  Despite poor performance in the rehabilitation of public
buildings, which has remained largely unfinished, disbursements at mid-February 1998
amount to about 93 percent of total credit allocation.
7.    Project implementation was initially slow for some components, but accelerated
once the project's institutional foundation was firmly established. Progress thereafter was
generally in accordance with schedule, with the notable exception of coastal defense
works, which were completed at end- 1997, close to 2 years behind schedule. Following
exceptional weather conditions in 1997, which delayed implementation of coastal defense
works, the credit's closing date was extended by six months, to end-December 1997.
8.    Sustainability and Future Operations: overall, long-term sustainability of the
infrastructure rehabilitated under the project (particularly the road network, public
buildings and coastal defense works) must be rated as uncertain due to deficiencies in
planning, management and execution of public infrastructure maintenance in Madagascar,
including inadequate financial allocations and equipment. Likewise, the operational
impact of the watershed protection and risk management study has yet to be established.
Coordinated follow-up programs have not been identified, to date, to implement the
study's findings for infrastructure protection along the Antananarivo-Toamasina corridor.
10.   Infrastructure assets restored under the project should continue to operate
successfully, barring exceptional weather conditions, for the immediate future. Long-
term sustainability of irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the program is likely, as



iv
maintenance is provided through cofinancing from users and the Second Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project.  Prospects for adequate maintenance of schools and dikes
rehabilitated under the ERP is less certain.
11.  In the absence of adequate arrangements to ensure sustainability and damage
prevention, reconstruction projects in a country subject to frequent cyclone damage may
not be cost-effective. Bank support will be needed to assist the authorities in designing
and financing adequate maintenance/mitigation programs, notably for the roads network,
public buildings and coastal defense at Toamasina.
12.   Lessons learned: key lessons learned under the Emergency Rehabilitation Project
are: (a) successful implementation hinges on responsiveness of project design to
Government's expectations and the needs of the population; (b) sustainability of works in
a country subject to frequent cyclone damage calls for early agreement on arrangements
to ensure adequacy of funding for future operation and maintenance and watershed
protection; (c) successful program implementation, and prompt reconstruction in the
context of an emergency operation, hinge on the existence of a strong coordination unit
(CNC), as well as up-front commitment to rapid procurement arrangements and timely
provision of counterpart funds and taxes; (d) close monitoring is instrumental in focusing
assistance on key activities for the success of the program and in enhancing flexibility in
project implementation; and (e) the complexity inherent to multisectoral reconstruction
programs can be mitigated by early agreement on the reconstruction strategy and donor
coordination for the channeling of assistance into priority sectors.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2625-MAG
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    Every year, during the cyclone season from December to March, Madagascar is
hit by about ten cyclones of varying intensity. The damage is usually limited, but severe
cyclones occur from time to time.  The Bank successfully implemented its first
rehabilitation projects in Madagascar in 1984 and 1986, with an emergency credit and a
supplemental credit, respectively, when cyclones Kamisy and Honorinina hit the country.
Key ingredients for success under the program were: (i) agreement, between the
Government and the financiers, on a reconstruction strategy; (ii) the existence of a strong
coordination unit; and (iii) a simplification of cumbersome procurement procedures.
2.   In early 1994, Madagascar experienced two consecutive cyclones of rare intensity.
On January 13, 1994, cyclone Daisy hit the east coast of the country, crossing the island
from east to west and proceeding down the west coast. Three weeks later, on February 2,
1994, cyclone Geralda hit the east coast again at the port of Toamasina, which handles
about 90% of the country's external trade, and followed the transport corridor between
Toamasina and the capital Antananarivo. Exceptional rainfall and winds, unabated by
ineffective watersheds, caused extensive damage to roads, railways, buildings and
irrigation schemes in all parts of the country, particularly the eastern provinces of
Toamasina and Antananarivo.
3.    Although cyclone-resistant construction standards and an advance warning
system, developed in the wake of cyclone Kamisy in 1984, were effective in mitigating
damage to buildings and limiting the death toll, the economic and social loss caused by
the two cyclones was significant. About 60 people were reported killed and over 60,000
left homeless in the capital alone. Nationwide, the number of victims was estimated at
500,000 persons. The temporary closing of the Toamasina-Antananarivo road and
railway caused food and energy shortages in the capital (which by itself accounts for 9%
of total population and about a fifth of GDP), leading to sharp increases in the price of
essential goods and generating economic hardship among the poorest segments of the
population. Overall, total damage to public assets was estimated at about $45 million,
without counting the substantial indirect costs associated with the resulting economic
disruption.
4.    The donor community provided immediate emergency relief following the
cyclones, enabling the resumption of basic supplies to the capital. Sector committees,
including representatives from bilateral agencies and specialized international



2
organizations, were established under UNDP's coordination to help coordinate the relief
effort. Measures included the immediate provision of medicines, food, sheet iron and
tents; the reopening, within days, of the Toamasina-Antananarivo transport corridor
(RN2); and the restoration of essential water supply and power distribution.
5.    A Bank identification mission visited Madagascar on February 13, 1994, one
week after the Government's official request for assistance, to assess the damage and
associated needs, evaluate the country's readiness to react promptly, and assist the
Government in preparing an outline for a reconstruction program with other donors.
Following the mission's recommendations, the Bank acted to reallocate funds from
ongoing credits and extend an emergency IDA credit to finance the rehabilitation of
essential assets damaged by the cyclones. A Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(ERP) was negotiated with Government on April 20, 1994 and approved by the Executive
Directors on June 9, 1994. It was made effective on September 29, 1994, one week
behind schedule.
1.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
6.    Statement of objectives: the IDA component of the emergency program, to
provide critical support not covered by other donors, was aimed at: (i) supporting the
physical and economic rehabilitation of the areas damaged by the two cyclones by
providing urgent assistance to promptly restore essential facilities; (ii) further developing
measures to minimize potential damage from future natural disasters; (iii) supporting
appropriate institutional arrangements for efficient coordination; and (iv) developing
appropriate methods to protect the immediate environment of transport infrastructure.
7.    Reflecting these objectives, the rehabilitation program, to be implemented over
2.5 years, consisted of the following elements:
(i)     Roads: studies, rehabilitation and supervision of works on major roads
affected by the cyclone (eastern section of the corridor RN2 between the port of
Toamasina and the capital city, the chromite transport road RN33, and the major
road of the central highland area RN7);
(ii)    Public Buildings: studies, reconstruction and repair, and supervision of
works on schools, health centers and other public buildings and administrative
offices;
(iii)   Coastal defense: study, construction and supervision of works of coastal
defense in Toamasina, so as to protect the local high school, threatened by erosion;
(iv)    Port of Toamasina: repairs to workshops, warehouses, port housing,
offices and the silo for cereals; rehabilitation of the electricity network and repair of
the navigation aids; and geotechnical investigations on wharves and paved areas;



3
(v)     Urban streets: rehabilitation of streets affected by serious flooding in
Antananarivo;
(vi)    Protection against flooding: reconstruction of damaged protection dikes
along various rivers in the Antananarivo plain area;
(vii)    Agriculture: rehabilitation of agricultural production in the Brickaville
area and rehabilitation of irrigation schemes (16,000 hectares);
(viii)   Environment: watershed protection and risk management study for the
Toamasina-Antananarivo transport corridor, to help the Government address soil
erosion issues in transport infrastructure design and maintenance; and
(ix)    Strengthening of the National Coordination Committee (CNC), established
in 1984 on a permanent basis to coordinate emergency recovery assistance, and
chaired by the Minister of Finance and Budget: renovation of office equipment
(computer, photocopier, software).
8.    The total cost of the IDA-financed rehabilitation program was estimated at
US$28.8 million (including US$6 million financed by the Government). A detailed
breakdown of the program by source of financing is presented in Annex A. In addition to
the Emergency Rehabilitation Credit, in an amount of US$13.1 million, funds under eight
credits, totalling US$9.7 million, were applied toward urgent rehabilitation in accordance
with their respective objectives: the Ports Project (Cr. 1752-MAG, FY87), the Seventh
Highway Project (Cr. 1905-MAG, FY88), the Economic Management and Social Action
Project (Cr. 1967-MAG, FY89), the Education Sector Reinforcement or CRESED Project
(CR. 2094-MAG, FY90), the Antananarivo Plain Development Project (Cr. 2117-MAG,
FY90), the Health Sector Improvement or CRESAN Project (Cr. 2251-MAG, FY91), a
supplemental PPF advance (PPF 800-1) under the Antananarivo Urban Works Project
(Cr. 2591-MAG, FY94), and the Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2644-
MAG, FY94).
9.    Contributions from  the donor community to the ERP-supported program
included: (i) support from the Swiss Cooperation Agency to finance part of the western
section of the Antananarivo-Toamasina road (US$1.5 million); and (ii) the preparation of
an agricultural sector rehabilitation program by the Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO). Additional contributions were provided by the European Development Fund and
the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD). As IDA-financed components had been
selected on the basis of the absence of alternative funding, donors' contributions to the
recovery effort did not overlap with the ERP.
10.   Evaluation of objectives: the rehabilitation project, designed as the Bank's rapid
response to the Goverrnent's request for urgent assistance, was commensurate with the
extent of the damage caused in the country. It was justified by: (i) the need for prompt



4
support to promote disaster mitigation and prevention and restore productivity; and (ii)
the opportunity to assist in the rehabilitation of the damaged infrastructure to complement
the immediate emergency relief provided by other donors following the two cyclones.
Rehabilitation of the railway was not envisaged under the emergency credit as restoration
of assets, seen as inconsistent with the credit's objectives as an emergency operation, was
not economically viable.
11.   The ERP was well in line with the Bank's assistance strategy to Madagascar,
aimed at promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty alleviation in a context of
macroeconomic stability. The scale of the disaster, both on human life and productive
assets, and its significant effect on the poor, was such as to warrant special and urgent
Bank support. The restoration of reliable infrastructure and health and education
facilities, identified as a key ingredient to economic and human resource development in
Madagascar, provided a consistent response to the country's strategic needs in the context
of the emergency situation created by the 2 cyclones.
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
12.   Madagascar's performance under the Emergency Rehabilitation project was
satisfactory overall. Under the monitoring of a National Coordination Committee (CNC),
established with support from the 1984 Cyclone Emergency Recovery Credit, most
physical components under the project were successfully completed, usually to much
improved standards, and all studies were undertaken as planned.  Despite poor
performance in the rehabilitation of public buildings, which has remained largely
unfinished, disbursements at mid-February 1998 amount to about 93 percent of total
credit allocation.
13.   Project implementation was initially slow for some components, but accelerated
once the project's institutional foundation was firmly established. Progress thereafter was
generally in accordance with schedule, with the notable exception of coastal defense
works, which were completed at end-1997, close to 2 years behind schedule. Following
exceptional weather conditions in 1997, which delayed implementation of coastal defense
works, the credit's closing date was extended by six months, to end-December 1997.
14.   Roads: all studies and works were successfully completed to rehabilitate the
country's main roads, including the Toamasina-Antananarivo transport corridor (RN2),
the RN7 road, the RN33 road (chromite road) and the urban section of Antananarivo.
The works consisted of: (i) labor-intensive works to clear the roads (financed under the
Economic Management and Social Action Project); (ii) resurfacing (financed under the
ERP); and (iii) consolidation of rights of way, including slopes rehabilitation, retaining
walls, bridges and drainage works (also financed under the ERP). The Swiss Cooperation
Agency provided complementary financing for the rehabilitation and supervision of
works. An overview of project design and implementation, provided by the Swiss
Cooperation Agency, is attached (Annex B).



5
15.   In spite of the extension of the scope of works required along the RN2 following
cyclone Bonita in early 1996, rehabilitation works under the ERP were completed, within
the agreed schedule, at a total cost of US$8.7 million (as against a initial allocation of
about US$9.6 million). The savings generated, about US$0.9 million or 10 percent of
initial allocation, were used to offset overruns in other components, including the coastal
defense works.
16.   Public Buildings: all activities for the rehabilitation of schools, financed under the
CRESED project, were successfully completed. A total of 109 schools, representing 331
buildings, were rehabilitated at a cost of about US$2.9 million (equivalent to the allocated
budget envelope), following cyclone-resistant construction standards.  Delays in
implementation (about 1-1.5 year) were recorded, however, as progress was hampered by
cumbersome procurement procedures, weak capacity of contractors involved and difficult
access to schools in remote areas. Havoc and vandalism also caused some delays.
17.   Implementation results for the rehabilitation of health centers were mixed,
however, as physical targets under the project were seriously restricted by cumbersome
procurement procedures and limited institutional capacity, delaying preparation and
implementation of rehabilitation works. Ultimately, as it became evident that 18 health
centers only (representing about US$315,000 and 56 percent of the physical target) would
be rehabilitated under the credit1, the undisbursed amount was reallocated to finance the
health district development plan under the CRESAN project.
18.   The rehabilitation of administrative buildings, to be financed under the Economic
Management and Social Action Project and the ERP, failed to proceed as targeted.
Despite early progress in assessing the damage, and commendable efforts from the Bank
to ensure continued success in implementation, deficiencies in the decision-making
process and insufficient commitment from the executing agency caused implementation
to veer off track. In the event, as disbursements under this component were significantly
delayed (the first disbursements from the special account were only made in August 1997
for an amount of about US$12,000), the authorities moved to halt implementation of the
administrative building rehabilitation sub-component and, with Bank approval,
reallocated the funds to underfunded components, including the coastal protection works
at Toamasina.
19.   Coastal defense: implementation was significantly affected by delays in preparing
the final design study, adverse external factors and slow decision-making process,
causing the works to start 2 years behind schedule. The works were finally completed at
end-December 1997.
Of the 32 centers initially identified by the Health Ministry, 12 did not qualify for rehabilitation under the
program as: (i) financing was already provided by other donors; or (ii) the damage had not been
caused by the cyclones.



6
20.   In the absence of the final design study, which only became available in early
1996 (20 months behind schedule), the Bank seriously underestimated the allocation
needed to finance the works. Following reception of the bids in April 1996, it became
clear that physical targets under the component had to be significantly reduced (by about
one half) and substantial reallocations (about US$1 million) made from other overfunded
components. Progress was also hampered by slow decision-making process within the
administration, as well as difficulties in the supply of rocks essential to the works,
causing prices to surge tenfold. In the event, as unusually adverse weather conditions
from March until July 1997 further delayed implementation, the credit's closing date was
postponed by 6 months, to end-December 1997.
21.   Port of Toamasina: rehabilitation works were successfully completed. With Bank
approval, the rehabilitation of wharves, paved areas, damaged protection walls and the
lighthouse were financed under the Emergency Rehabilitation Project, as the Ports
Rehabilitation Project, initially identified as the source of financing for this component,
was closed at end-December 19942. The Port Authority, to limit delays in the
rehabilitation of the site, chose to finance urgent repairs to workshops, warehouses, port
housing, offices and the silo for cereals. Rehabilitation works under the Port component
were completed, with a few months' delay, at a total cost of about US$800,000, as
against an initial allocation of US$820,000.
22.   Urban streets: all activities for the rehabilitation of streets affected by flooding in
Antananarivo, financed under the Antananarivo Urban Works Project, were successfully
completed. Rehabilitation works, on a total of 5 sites, included resurfacing, construction
of retaining walls and drainage works. Disbursements under this component amounted to
about US$320,000, or the full amount of the initial allocation, despite an increase in
physical targets during implementation.
23.   Protection against flooding: all rehabilitation works for the reinforcement and
reconstruction of 4 damaged protection dikes along various rivers in the Antananarivo
plain area were successfully completed, with no delay, under financing from the
Antananarivo Plain Development Project. Total cost, at MGF 1.1 billion, was covered by
the allocated envelope (US$0.22 million).
24.   Agriculture: all activities for the rehabilitation of agricultural production in the
Brickaville area (supply of tools and equipment, operating and maintenance costs) were
successfully completed, under financing from the Economic Management and Social
Action Project, by the Food and Agriculture Organization (total cost of US$250,000).
Likewise, activities for the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, on a total of 20 sites
representing 16,000 hectares, were completed as targeted under the Second Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project.
2A request from Government for a third extension of the credit closing date was turned down by the Bank.



7
25.   Environment: a watershed protection and risk management study was carried out
as targeted for infrastructure investment and maintenance along the Toarnasina-
Antananarivo transport corridor (RN2). The study, however, was completed over 7
months behind schedule, at a cost which exceeded the initial allocation (US$0.58 million)
by over 50 percent.
26.   Further, the prospects for effective implementation of the study's findings and
action plan appear very slim at this stage. Although the donor-financed Second
Environmental Program (PE2) recognizes the need for a preventive posture in the
maintenance of infrastructure, the watershed component under the program has received
little funding as of today. It does not, indeed, include the RN2 watersheds as a priority
site for action under the program. Thus, unless the necessary funding is made available
from alternative sources to ensure implementation of the study's findings, sustainability
of infrastructure along the Toamasina-Antananarivo transport corridor will remain highly
uncertain.
27.   Strengthening of CNC: the CNC's capacity was strengthened with the purchase of
modem office equipment and a vehicle. The establishment of effective management and
monitoring systems was key in ensuring satisfactory program implementation, as
discussed below.
III. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28.   Factors not generally subject to Government Control: implementation under
the Emergency rehabilitation Project was affected by severe weather conditions, resulting
in further damage to the roads rehabilitated under the project, as well as appreciable
delays in implementation of the coastal defense works. The latter was also affected by a
serious underestimate of program allocation by the Bank, significant delays in the
completion of the final design study, and price volatility and availability of rocks
essential to the works. In the event, as unusually adverse weather conditions further
delayed implementation, the credit's closing date was postponed to end-December 1997.
29.   Factors under the Control of the Authorities/Executing agencies: despite
satisfactory Government performance overall, implementation of selected subcomponents
was seriously compromised by insufficient initial commitment and weaknesses in
administration, reflecting an initial failure to sufficiently internalize the program and
create an effective mechanism for forceful and timely government action. As a result,
implementation of the administrative buildings sub-component was interrupted for lack
of progress and the undisbursed amount reallocated to underfunded components.
30.   Overall program implementation was also affected by cumbersome procurement
procedures. Over-centralization of decision-making and an unwieldy and prolonged
approval process resulted in some cases in significant delays, as the Government failed to
strictly implement procedures agreed upon during project preparation to streamline and



8
expedite the procurement process. Failure to ensure timely payment of counterpart funds
and taxes3, along with repeated Governmlent reshuffles, may also have adversely
impacted implementation for selected components.
31.   Economic Analysis: because the ERP was an emergency operation, and because
the benefits and costs of cyclone repairs are difficult to quantify, no economic valuation
was carried out at appraisal. For similar reasons, no economic assessment was possible at
completion.
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
32.   Project objectives were  substantially  achieved  overall.   Despite poor
implementation performance for the rehabilitation of public buildings, as well as delays
in completing the coastal defense works, the ERP was successful in ensuring quick
resumption of economic activity, allowing for increased reliability and productivity.
Likewise, institutional capacity in cyclone preparedness and mitigation was strengthened.
Following exceptional weather conditions during the 1997 cyclone season, delaying
implementation of coastal defense works, the credit's closing date was extended to end-
December 1997. With those reservations, overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
33.   Actions financed under the Program  to strengthen sustainability of key
infrastructure included protection works and the development, with financing from the
CFD, of a flood warning system. In addition to organizations and systems already in
place in Madagascar to identify, specify and supervise maintenance works (especially on
the country's priority roads), donor-financed projects are being prepared by donors
(European Development Fund) to support immediate sustainability of selected sections of
the road network. A Bank-financed Urban Works Project has been in place since 1994 to
upgrade, on behalf of the Government, the infrastructure of the country's main cities.
34.   Overall, however, sustainability of the infrastructure rehabilitated under the
project (particularly the road network, public buildings and coastal defense works) must
be rated as uncertain due to deficiencies in planning, management and execution of public
infrastructure maintenance in Madagascar, including inadequate financial allocations and
equipment. At the closing date of the project, for example, there is considerable evidence
that a substantial proportion of the road system is in poor condition (routine and periodic
maintenance only cover about 50 percent of the country's 15,000 km principal road
network). On those sections programmed for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance,
accelerated deterioration (typically leading to more expensive emergency maintenance
and/or additional works costs) has frequently occurred as a result of procurement delays,
3 The 1996 Revised Budget Law made the Treasury responsible for payment of taxes to contractors, thus
depriving the CNC of one of its functions under the previous arrangement.



9
lack of preventative maintenance and, especially on the Toamasina-Antananarivo
transport corridor, heavy traffic of overloaded trucks.
35.   Likewise, as noted above, the operational impact of the watershed protection and
risk management study has yet to be established. Coordinated follow-up programs have
not been identified, to date, to implement the study's findings for infrastructure protection
along the Antananarivo-Toamasina corridor.  The cyclones' potentially destructive
impact, partly associated with the deterioration of the watersheds, has remained
unaddressed as soil erosion and deforestation continue to threaten major infrastructure.
V. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank Performance
36.   Design: the ERP, designed as the Bank's rapid response to the Government's
request for urgent assistance, provided an adequate response to the emergency situation
caused by cyclones Daisy and Geralda. It was well in line with the Bank's assistance
strategy to Madagascar, aimed at promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty
alleviation in a context of macroeconomic stability.  The restoration of reliable
infrastructure and health and education facilities, identified as key ingredients to poverty
reduction in Madagascar, were crucial in ensuring a quick resumption of economic
activity and providing relief to the poorest segments of the population.
37.   The Bank's performance in preparing a comprehensive recovery program over a
period of less than 4 months was especially impressive. Building on the success of the
institutional arrangements put in place in 1984 by the Malagasy Government, leading to
the creation of the CNC, the ERP focused on simple measures critical to infrastructure
rehabilitation and alleviation of the adverse impact of cyclones Daisy and Geralda on the
poorest segments of the population. The ERP was designed to reflect the lessons of the
Bank's experience with cyclone rehabilitation in Madagascar, including: (i) agreeing with
Government on a reconstruction strategy; (ii) ensuring up-front commitment to rapid
procurement arrangements, by reinstating the simplified procurement procedures used
successfully under the first Cyclone Rehabilitation Project; (iii) strengthening the
coordination unit's implementation capacity; and (iv) coordinating the rehabilitation
effort with key donors, so as to avoid overlaps with concurrent rehabilitation programs.
38.   However, in the absence of the final design study for the coastal defense works,
which was only made available in early 1996, the Bank seriously underestimated the
allocation needed to finance the works. As a result, physical targets under the component
had to be significantly reduced (to about one half of the distance to the local high school
as initially targeted), while funds originally earmarked for other components were
reallocated to cover the need for additional funding. While those reallocations reflected
an element of flexibility essential to the success of the project, they required careful
management and supervision to ensure optimum allocation of resources between
competing demands in the various components.  The Government has initiated



10
discussions with OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) for the
financing of the section of coastal defense works eventually not covered under the ERP.
39.  In view  of the authorities' poor track record in ensuring infrastructure
maintenance, firmer assurances could have been sought from Government to ensure
sustainability of the works. Project design would have benefited from the inclusion of
provisions to ensure adequacy of funding for future operation and maintenance (budget
allocations for road maintenance have been reduced further in 1996, to MGF 47.5 billion,
causing serious concern about the sustainability of the rehabilitated infrastructure).
Further, presentation of project objectives, notably in the Memorandum of the President
and Technical Annex, could have been enhanced by the inclusion of quantitative physical
targets against which performance could be measured. With those reservations, Bank
performance in project design is rated as satisfactory.
40.   Supervision: close monitoring was instrumental in focusing assistance on key
activities for the success of the program. Supervision was adequately carried out and
problems addressed with considerable flexibility. Overall, the Bank demonstrated a high
level of responsiveness to the Borrower's needs, and maintained a good working
relationship with the CNC and implementing agencies. Among other things, IDA was
prompt in reallocating funds originally earmarked for other components to finance the
coastal defense works in Toamasina.
41.   The appointment of a senior implementation specialist, assigned in July 1994 to
the Bank Resident mission in Antananarivo to supervise the rehabilitation project, was
key in ensuring adequate implementation follow-up.  The authorities repeatedly
emphasized their satisfaction with this arrangement during the ICR mission. A possible
weakness, despite early attempts to correct deviations from the agreed program, was the
Bank's failure to lead the authorities to ensure satisfactory implementation of the
administrative building rehabilitation component and reach early agreement on the
selection of bidders for the coastal defense works.  IDA performance in project
supervision is rated as satisfactory.
42.   Borrower Performance: Government performance was satisfactory overall. The
very nature of the emergency project, geared to reconstruct and rehabilitate damaged
assets and retrieve lost productivity, commanded strong political support at most levels.
The commitment and effectiveness of the CNC and main implementing agencies, notably
the Ministry of Public Works, greatly contributed to the achievement of major project
objectives. In particular, the CNC was key in coordinating the reconstruction effort and
promptly following up on requests for disbursement of funds.
43.   However, implementation of selected subcomponents was seriously compromised
by insufficient initial commitment and weaknesses in administration. As a result,
implementation of the administrative buildings sub-component was interrupted for lack
of progress and the undisbursed amount reallocated to underfunded components. Further,
the authorities did not strictly adhere to the procurement guidelines defined under the



11
credit or decree 94-124 to streamline and expedite the procurement process, causing
delays in the selection of some contractors.  Failure to ensure timely payment of
counterpart funds and taxes, along with repeated Government reshuffles, also impacted
implementation for selected components.
VI.  FUTURE OPERATIONS
44.  Infrastructure assets restored under the project should continue to operate
successfully, barring exceptional weather conditions, for the immediate future. Long-
term sustainability of irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the program is likely, as
maintenance is provided through cofinancing from users and the Second Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project.  Prospects for adequate maintenance of schools and dikes
rehabilitated under the ERP is less certain.
45.  in the absence of adequate arrangements to ensure sustainability and damage
prevention, reconstruction projects in a country subject to frequent cyclone damage may
not be cost-effective. Bank support will be needed to assist the authorities in designing
and financing adequate maintenance/mitigation programs, notably for the roads network,
public buildings and coastal defense at Toamasina (preparation of itemized and costed
maintenance plans, assistance in devising methods of funding and equipment needed).
While new procedures and capabilities are being developed under the ongoing Public
Management Capacity Building Project, effective maintenance of infrastructure assets
will hinge on strong Government leadership and commitment.
VII. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.   Despite poor implementation performance for the rehabilitation of public
buildings, as well as delays in completing the coastal defense works, the ERP was
successful in ensuring quick resumption of economic activity, allowing for increased
reliability and productivity. Disbursements at mid-February 1998 amount to about 93
percent of total credit allocation.
47.   Key lessons learned under the Emergency Rehabilitation Project are:
(a)   successful implementation hinges on responsiveness of project design to
Government's expectations and the needs of the population. By giving priority to actions
which ensure quick restoration of economic activity and benefit the segments of the
population most affected by the cyclones, an emergency rehabilitation operation is bound
to arouse strong support from all key actors;
(b)   Government capacity to organize and carry out infrastructure works is typically
limited by cumbersome procurement procedures and weak administrative capacity.
Experience under the ERP shows that, especially in emergency situations or large-scale



12
rehabilitation operations, effectiveness in implementation is best served if the contracting
authority is delegated to a project management unit not subject to those constraints;
(c)   in the absence of adequate arrangements to ensure sustainability and damage
prevention, reconstruction projects in a country subject to frequent cyclone damage may
not be cost-effective. Sustainability of works calls for early agreement on arrangements
to ensure adequacy of funding for future operation and maintenance and watershed
protection;
(d)   successful program implementation, and prompt reconstruction in the context of
an emergency operation, hinge on the existence of a strong coordination unit (CNC), as
well as up-front commitment to rapid procurement arrangements and timely provision of
counterpart funds and taxes. Continued improvements in procurement processing will
perrnit timely and effective response to road improvement needs and reduce the cost of
works;
(e)   close monitoring is instrumental in focusing assistance on key activities for the
success of the program and in enhancing flexibility in project implementation. A high
level of responsiveness to the Borrower's needs, and maintenance of a good working
relationship with the authorities, are crucial to arousing Government commitment and
ownership of the program; and
(f)   the complexity inherent to multisectoral reconstruction programs can be mitigated
by: (i) agreement between the Government and financiers on the reconstruction strategy;
(ii) donor coordination for the channeling of assistance into priority sectors; and (iii) the
selection of a strong coordination unit, with unconditional support from the Government.



PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
Summary of Assessments
(A) Achievement of Objectives        Substantiail      Parial          Negligible    Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                           ___________         I                  x
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                                   1       !                   EIII!ZI
Institutional Development          I           L                   L X |
Physical Objectives                                    W                W
Poverty Reduction                 [               E    X      |I]
Gender Issues                                                                           X
Other Social Objectives                                X      |  |
Environmental Objectives                               W
Public Sector Management          1              t                [ X |
Private Sector Development                             W        L II       IZ]
Other (specify)                                                                         X
(B) Project Sustainability             Lkly           Unlikely         Untain
Highly
(C) Bank Performance                 Satisfactorl    Satisfactov       Deficien
Identification                                    Z                  IX
Preparation Assistance                                 X      |  |
Appraisal
Supervision                        I             [                    iIX
Highly
IDI Borrower Performance            Satisfactory     Satisfactoly      Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                                         X
Covenant Compliance              |               |
Operation (if applicable)                                            m    u
Highly                                           Highly
(E) Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory     Satisfactor     Unsatisfactoly   Unsatisfao
|E                   W                W      



Table 2
Related Bank Loans
Preceding operations
Education Sector Reinforcement                2094-MAG  Improve the efficiency and quality of education through measures to:                 1990             Disbursing
Project                                                      (i) strengthen administration and planning within the Ministry of Basic
and Secondary Education; (ii) improve the quality of basic and lower
secondary education; and (iii) strengthen higher level education
Health Sector Reinforcement                   2251 -MAG  Support the Boffower in the execution of the Health Sector Program                  1991             Disbursing
Project                                                      so as to reduce mortality, morbidity and fertility levels, increase the
efficiency of public health delivery, and improve the responsiveness
of the health sector policy framework to the needs and conditions
prevailing in Madagascar
Seventh Highway Project                       1905-MlAG  Improve and repair the country's road network, as well as the                       1988               Closed
country's capacity to restore it (rehabilitation and resurfacing of
paved roads, rehabilitation and regravelling of earth roads,
rehabilitation of feeder roads, and routine road maintenance)
Economic Management and                       1967-MAG  Initiate a program of emergency actions to reach the pooest and most                 1988               Closed
Social Action Project                                        vulnerable groups; strengthen the Government's capacity to monitor
economic and social conditions and design the social programs and
policies necessary for responding to them; and facilitate implementation
of the structural adjustment program by building the capacity of key
institutions responsible for economic management
Ports Projects                                1 752-MAG  Rehabilitate ports' physical infrastructure and rehabilitate or provide new         1987               Closed
equipment to reduce transport costs to users of shipping services;
develop institutional capacity to manage, operate and maintain, at a
reasonable levcl of efficiency, the ports subsector and its restored assets;
and eliminate delays and safety hazards to navigation



Antananarivo Plain                            211 7-MAG  Provide flood protection in the Antananarivo plain; rehabilitate and expand           1990             Disbursing
Development Project                                           the drainage and sanitation facilties; rehabilitate the irrigation schemes;
initiate the establishment of an economically viable urbanization program
to develop housing and emplyment; improve the local govemment's
revenues; and improve land use planning and investment programming
Antananarivo Urban Works                      2591 -MAG  Rehabilitate road-related infrastructure in Antananarivo and promote                  1994             Disbursing
Project                                                       SMEdevelopment in the construction and engineering industry
Second Irrigation Rehabilitation              2644-MAG  Repair cyclone damage and undertake rehabilitation works; protect the                  1994             Disbursing
Project                                                       environment; rehabilitate new irrigation schemes; provide support to the
Directorates of Rural Works, Agriculture, Programming and Finance,
Lands and Water and Forests; provide training to local staff; monitor and
evaluate/audit project impact; carry out O&M by Water Users Associations
Following operations
Agricultural Extension Program                2729-MAG  Increase productivity and farmers' income in an environmentally                        1995             Disbursing
Support Project                                               sustainable manner, and rationalize the use of public resources in support
of agricultural services
Second Environment Program                    N009-MAG  Reverse current environmental degradation trends; promote                              1997             Disbursing
sustainable use of natural resources, including soil, water, forest cover
and biodiversity; and enable environmental considerations to become an
integral part of macroeconomic and sector management of the country
Urban Infrastructure                          2968-MAG  Improve provision and maintenance of priority urban infrastructure;                    1997              Effective
increase income and employment of the poor
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation             3025-MAG  Improve the capacity of Gopvemment, communities and the private                        1997              Approved
Project                                                       sector to expand a sustainable and cost-effective coverage in water
supply and sanitation



Table 3
Project Timetable
Request received from Government        February 6, 1994
Identification/Preparation              February 13-25, 1994    February 13-25, 1994
Appraisal/Negotiations                  April 11, 1994          April 11, 1994
Board Presentation                      June 9, 1994            June 9, 1994
Signing                                                         June 24, 1994
Effectiveness                           July 15, 1994           September 29, 1994
Credit closing                          June 30, 1997           December 31, 1997
\2 As provided in the President's Report.



Table 4
Credit Disbursements
Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
~~~~~.  .. _._ ......... -..                                           - .--.- -----
:Y ,  FF .,y
-:___.__-__-_        .:___ .___  1995      1996          1997         1998
Appraisal estimate                9.8           2.9          0.4          0.0
Cumulative                      9.8          12.7          13.1         13.1
Revised cumulative estimate       1.8           9.1          13.1         13.1
Actual disbursement               2.8           5.5          4.0
Cumulative                      2.8           8.3          11.6         12.5
Actual as%of estimate            156%          91%          88%           95%
Date of final disbursement                         23-Jan-98



Table 5: Program Performance Indicators
Road network                             75           25
Actual                                  90           10
Building rehabilitation
Schools                                50           50
Actual                                40           40           20
Health Centers                          50          50
Actual                                 0           20           36
Other Public Buildings                  50          50
Actual                                 0           0
Coastal Defense                          100
Actual                                10           15           35          40
Rehabilitation of Toamasina Port         100
Actual                                t00
Rehabilitation Agriculture Brickaville   100
Actual                                100
Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes     100
Actual                                50           30           20
Rehabilitation of Streets in Antananarivo  100
Actual                                100
Rehabilitation of Dikes in Plain         100
Actual                                100
Watershed Protection Study               50           50
Actual                                30           35           35



19
Table 6
Project Studies
Design study              Rehabilitation of roads               Completed        Roads rehabilitated, improved
(urban section of Antananarivo,                        infrastructure
Eastern section of RN2, RN7
and RN33
Design study              Rehabilitation of public buildings    Completed        Schools and health centers
(schools, health centers and                           rehabilitated (virtually no impact
other public buildings)                                on other public buildings)
Design study              Construction of coastal defense       Completed        Vulnerable section (including
local high school) of Toamasina
coast protected
Environmental study       Watershed protection and risk         Completed        No impact yet
management



Table 7
Project Costs
(in million of $US)
Civil Works                           9.4                      10.1
Equipment                             0.0                      0.09
Consulting services                   1.2                      2.3
Unallocated                           2.4                      0.26
Total                                13.1                      12.7
Table 8
Project Financing
(US$ mil)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M. 
IDA                                   13.1                     12.5
Other                                 0.0                      0.0
TOTAL                                13.1                      12.5



Table 9
Economic Costs and Benefits
Because no attempt was made at Appraisal to calculate a net present value (NPV) or an economic rate
of return (ERR), there are no refemce data on which to base an evaluation of economic costs and
benefits. Moreover, no parameters were provided from which cost-effectiveness could be calculated.



Table 10
Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
4.01 (a)          I            c        30-Jun-95               Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and                Complied with
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, tesources and expenditures.
4.01 (b)          I            c        30-Jun-95               The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts audited; (ii)          Complied with
furnish to the Association a certified copy of the report; (ii) furnish
to the Association all information on the records
4.01 (c)          I            c        30-Jun-95               For all expenditures made on the basis of statements of expenditures,        Complied with
the Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and accounts; (ii) retain all
records; (iii) enable the Association representatives to examine records;
(iv) ensure that these records are included in the annual audit report
4.1 (a)           5            c                                The Borrower shall designate the Comite National de Coordination             Complied with
(CNC)
4.2               5            c                                The Borrower shall take appropriate steps to expedite procurement            Complied with
actions
4.3               5            c                                The Borrower shall establish an emergency unit within the MTP                Complied with
4.4 (b) (i)       5            c                                The Borrower shall ensure that all repairs satisfy eligibility and be        Complied with
conducted in accordance with appropriate cyclone-resistant building
standards
4.5               5            c                                The Borrower shall conduct works with due regard to the protection of        Complied with
the environment
4.6               5            c                                The Borrower shall open a project account in a commercial bank,              Complied with
deposit US$450,000 and replenish it on a quarterly basis
Covenants JIeS:                                                                                                                    Present Status:
1= Accounts/audits                                              10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9           C  = Covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  11= Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation  CD= Complied with after delay
3= Flow and utilization of project funds                        12= Sector or cross-sector policy/regulatory/institutional action  CP= Complied with partially
4= Counterpart funding                                          13= Other                                                          NC= Not complied with
5= Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6= Enviromnental covenants
7= Involuntary resettlement
8= Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review and reporting



Table 1 1
Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Preparation to Appraisal                 0           0           0           0          9.9         33.5
Appraisal                                0           0           0           0          7.3         24.1
Negotiations through Board Approval      0           0           0           0          11.7        37.9
Supervision                             14         40.6         12.8        38.2        18.2        51.7
Completion                               8          11.8        8.2         23.7        5.4         16.6
Total                                   22          52.4        21          61.9        52.5        163.8
* Actuals are as of January 28, 1998. Cost figures include travel expenses.



Table 12
Use of Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                                             e                                                   .  .*                     - I
Project Cycle                                   1 e      L    :1
Through Appraisal                               Feb-94           I           10                OA                   n/a            n/a                n/a
Feb-94          5            1 1         FA, IE, PS, STE           n/a            n/a                n/a
Appraisal through Board Approval                Apr-94           7            6      IE, FA, IS, RA, IDS, EIS       n/a            n/a                n/a
May-94           4           2          IE, RA, LEG, DO            n/a             n/a                n/a
Board Approval through Effectiveness              n/a           n/a          n/a                n/a                 n/a            n/a                n/a
Supervision                                     Senior implementation specialist was assigned to Resident            S              S                  S
mission inJuly 1994 to supervise the rehabilitation project
Completion                                      Aug-97           I I         12               CONS                  n/a            n/a                n/a
Key to specialized staff skills
EC = Economist                            LEG = Legal                                 Key to Performance Rating          Ky to Problems
OA  Operations Advisor                    CONS = Consultant                           I = Problem Free                   AF = Availability of funds
IE = Infrastructure Engineer              STE = Senior Transport Engineer             2 = Moderate Problems              CLC = Compliance with legal covenants
FA = Financial Analyst                    MFA = Municipal Financial Analyst           3 = Major Problems                 FP = Financial Performance
CC = Computer Consultant                  UFS = Urban Financial Specialist            4 = Major Problems -               PMP = Project management performance
UP = Urban Planner                        YP = Young Professional                        Corrective Action to be taken   PP = Procurement progress
TRE = Traffic Engineer                    PS = Port Specialsit                                                           SP = Studies progress
RA= Research Assistant                    IDS = Institutional Development Specialist
IS = Implementation Specialist            EIS = Environmental Information Specialist
TEC = Transport Economist                 DO = Disbursement Officer



ANNEX A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
MADAGASCAR
PROJET DE REHABILITATION D'URGENCE SUITE AUX DEGATS
CYCLONIQUES
(Credit 2625-MAG)
Introduction
1.    Une del6gation de la Banque Mondiale a effectue du 4 au 15 aout 1997 une
mission de post-evaluation du Projet de Rehabilitation d'Urgence suite aux Degats
Cycloniques (PRU). Cette mission, conformement aux termes de reference etablis le 28
juillet 1997, visait A evaluer la mise en oeuvre du projet et A solliciter des autorites leur
contribution A la redaction du rapport (Partie II). Le present aide-memoire, dont le
contenu a et discute avec les autorites, resume les principales conclusions de la mission.
2.    La mission a tenu des seances de travail avec divers representants du Comite
National de Coordination (CNC) de l'aide a la reconstruction; du Ministere des Travaux
Publics; du Ministere de l'Amrnagement du Territoire; des divers projets mis en place
par la Banque A Madagascar et ayant participe au financement du programme de
reconstruction; de l'Agence de Cooperation Suisse et de la FAO; de l'Office National de
l'Environnement; du Secretariat Multi-Bailleur du Second Programme Environnement; et
du Port de Toamasina. La mission a egalement effectue une visite des principaux sites, A
savoir: (i) la RN2, joignant la capitale Antananarivo a Toamasina (le principal port de
Madagascar), ainsi que la section urbaine d'Antananarivo; (ii) les travaux de defense
c6ti&re A Toamasina; et (iii) le Port de Toamasina.
3.    La mission tient a exprimer ses remerciements les plus vifs a M. Bia, Secretaire
Permanent du Comite National de Coordination, M. Randrianarisoa, Secretaire General
du Ministere des Travaux Publics, M. Rey et le personnel de la mission r6sidente pour
I'accueil chaleureux et le soutien precieux qu'ils ont reserve a la mission.
Mise en Oeuvre du Projet
4.    En janvier et fevrier 1994, respectivement, 2 cyclones d'une force exceptionnelle
(Daisy et Geralda) ont frappe Madagascar, causant la mort d'une soixantaine de
personnes et occasionnant des degats considerables dans les provinces de Toamasina et
Antananarivo. Un credit d'urgence d'un montant de 13,1 millions de dollars fut approuve
en juin 1994 par la Banque pour soutenir l'effort de reconstruction des infrastructures
essentielles du pays et reduire les effets d6favorables des cyclones sur la population. Le
programme de reconstruction, egalement finance par 8 projets en cours au moment des
faits, s'e1evait a 28,8 millions de dollars. La coordination de I'aide etait assuree par le



2
CNC, tandis que 10 agences d'execution avaient la charge de la mise en oeuvre du
programme.
5.    Le taux de realisation des travaux a et considerable, permettant ainsi une reprise
rapide de l'activite economique. Les decaissements totaux, A la fin juillet 1997 (5 mois
avant la cl6ture du credit), sont estimes A environ 86 pour cent de l'allocation totale. Il
est probable que la totalite A peu pres du montant du credit aura et decaissee au moment
de la cl6ture.  Les faiblesses principales enregistrees dans la realisation du projet
concement: (i) l'achevement limite des travaux de rehabilitation des centres de sante et
batiments administratifs; (ii) les retards enregistres dans la mise en oeuvre des travaux de
construction du dispositif de protection du littoral A Toamasina; et (iii) des dispositions
insuffisantes pour assurer l'entretien des travaux realis6s, notamment les routes,
batiments publics et travaux de protection du littoral. Des conditions climatiques severes
en 1997, en partie A l'origine des retards enregistres dans la realisation des travaux de
protection du littoral, ont rendu necessaire le report de la date de cl6ture du credit A la fin
du mois de decembre 1997 (celle-ci etait initialement prevue pour le mois de juin de la
meme annee).
6.    Routes: toutes les etudes et travaux ont ete r6alises selon le plan etabli. Les routes
r6habilitees comprennent l'axe Toamasina-Antananarivo (RN2), la RN33 et la section
urbaine d'Antananarivo. En d6pit de l'extension de l'etendue des travaux, A la suite du
cyclone Bonita au debut de l'annee 1997, la reconstruction a e  achevee, dans les delais
requis, a un cofit total de 8,7 millions de dollars selon les autorites. Le montant non
depense, environ 10 pour cent de l'allocation initiale, a ete reaffecte a des composantes
n6cessitant des apports de fonds complementaires, notamment les travaux de protection
du littoral.
7.    Batiments publics: la rehabilitation des ecoles, financee par le projet CRESED, a
cgalement ete realisee selon le plan etabli. Un total de 109 ecoles, representant 331
batiments, ont ainsi ete reconstruits. Des retards de 12-18 mois furent neanmoins
enregistres, la mise en oeuvre des travaux ayant ete entravee par la lourdeur des
procedures de passation des marches, la capacite limitee des entrepreneurs locaux et
l'acces difficile de certaines ecoles. Vandalisme et saccage ont egalement contraint la
realisation des travaux.
8.    Victime de la lourdeur des procedures de passation des marches et des limites des
capacites administratives du pays, la mise en oeuvre des travaux de rehabilitation des
centres de sante, financee par le projet CRESAN, n'a pas connu le succes escompte. Un
total de 18 centres de sante seulement ayant ete rehabilites (contre un objectif initial de 32
batiments), le montant non decaisse fut affecte A des composantes insuffisamment
pourvues du projet CRESAN.
9.    La rehabilitation des batiments administratifs, financee par le PRU, n'a pas et
realisee selon le plan etabli. En depit de progres initiaux, les lacunes administratives et
l'insuffisance de l'engagement de l'agence d'execution ont considerablement retarde la



3
mise en oeuvre du projet. Finalement, les decaissements etant limites a 12 mille dollars
selon le CNC, les autorites choisirent d'interrompre la mise en oeuvre des travaux et
d'affecter les montants non decaisses a d'autres composantes du programme, y compris
les travaux de protection du littoral.
10. Protection du littoral: la mise en oeuvre des travaux a ete considerablement
entravee par: (i) la sous-estimation par la Banque de I'allocation necessaire pour couvrir
le cofut des travaux (rendant necessaire une reduction de moitie des objectifs de realisation
physique, ainsi que des reallocations considerables de fonds provenant d'autres
composantes du programme); et (ii) des retards enregistres pour la finalisation de l'etude
preparatoire aux travaux (de telle sorte que ceux-ci debuterent avec un retard de 2 ans
environ).   Des conditions climatiques defavorables, couplees a des difficultes
d'approvisionnement (liees a un mouvement de speculation conduisant a une
multiplication par 10 du prix de pierres n6cessaires a la realisation des travaux),
contribuerent egalement aux retards enregistres. Les travaux, toutefois, sont en bonne
voie de realisation. Sauf conditions climatiques exceptionnelles avant le debut de la
saison cyclonique, la finalisation des travaux devrait intervenir avant la fin decembre
1997.
11.   Port de Toamasina: le projet Ports ayant e  cl6ture a la fin du mois de decembre
1994, la totalite des decaissements fut effectuee sur le PRU. Les travaux (y compris le
Phare de l'Ile au Prunes) furent realises, avec quelques mois de retard, a un cofit total de
800.000 dollars (allocation initiale de 820.000 dollars). Le Port, pour accelerer la mise en
oeuvre de travaux prioritaires, financa sur fonds propres la rehabilitation d'une partie du
site.
12.   Voirie urbaine: la rehabilitation de la voirie urbaine, financee par 1'AGETIPA, a
W realisee selon le plan etabli. Les travaux, effectues sur un total de 5 sites, incluaient la
refection de la chaussee, la construction de murs de soutenement et d'ouvrages de
drainage. Un montant de 320.000 dollars, soit environ l'allocation initiale, fut decaisse
au titre de cette composante, en d6pit de la realisation de travaux imprevus (travaux
d'assainissement, entretien periodique d'une route).
13.   Protection contre les inondations: les travaux de renforcement des digues furent
effectues, dans les delais requis, sous financement du Projet de Developpement de la
Plaine d'Antananarivo. Le cofit des travaux, estime a 1,1 milliard de FMG, a ete
entierement couvert par l'enveloppe allouee. La durabilite des travaux de reparation des
affouillements sera assuree par des travaux de consolidation definitifs.
14.   Agriculture: les travaux furent realises, sous financement du projet PASAGE
(250.000 dollars), par la FAO. De meme, les travaux de rehabilitation des perimetres
irrigues (20 sites, representant 16.000 hectares) furent effectues selon le plan etabli.
L'entretien de ces perimetres sera assure par les usagers.



4
15.   Environnement: un plan directeur fut etabli pour la protection des bassins versants
et la gestion des risques le long du couloir Toamasina-Antananarivo. L'6tude, toutefois,
fut finalisee avec un retard de 7 mois, A un cofit (580.000 dollars) de 50 pour cent
superieur a l'allocation definie. Par ailleurs, il existe des doutes serieux quant A l'usage
qui sera fait des resultats de cette etude. 11 semble en tout cas que le Second Programme
Environnement, qui comprend une composante bassins versants, ne pourra constituer le
vehicule requis pour financer les travaux necessaires. D'une part, la composante bassins
versants du Programme n'a recu pour l'instant qu'un financement tres limite. D'autre
part, la RN2 n'est pas, A l'heure actuelle, un site prioritaire du programme.
16.   Si les r6sultats du programme sont globalement positifs, il apparailt que la mise en
oeuvre de certaines composantes a et serieusement compromise par des lacunes dans le
fonctionnement de l'administration, ainsi que des retards dans la mise A disposition des
fonds de contrepartie. La lourdeur des procedures de passation des marches et la
centralisation de la prise de decision ont egalement engendre des retards considerables.
Enfin, la durabilite des travaux apparait menacee par l'inadequation des dotations et
equipements d'entretien, ainsi que par des lacunes serieuses dans la planification, la
gestion et 1'execution des operations d'entretien.
Fait A Antananarivo et Washington, DC, le 22 septembre 1997.



5
MADAGASCAR
PROJET DE REHABILITATION D'URGENCE SUITE AUX DEGATS
CYCLONIQUES
(Cr6dit 2625-MAG)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Liste des Personnes Rencontrees
ANDRIATSIAFA Lise, Responsable Administratif et Financier du Projet CRESAN
BIA Jean-Paul, Secretaire Permanent du Comite National de Coordination
GUY Christophe, Directeur, COLAS
KECK Andrew, Coordinateur du Secretariat Multi-Bailleurs du Programme
Environnemental II
LABRUYERE J., Directeur d'Agence, SNTP International
LEVASSEUR Jean-Claude, Representant Resident de la FAO
MADHOW Alain Francois, Chef de Cellule Reseau de Banque de Donnees a l'Office
National de l'Environnement
MANANJARA Henri-Paul, Directeur Technique de la Societe d'Exploitation du Port de
Toamasina
PIROTAIS, Bureau d'Etude SOGREAH
RABARY Germain, Chef du Projet Port au Ministere du Transport et de la Meteorologie
RAHARIMANANTSOA Hugues, Directeur du CRESED
RAJAONARIVELO Paul Richard, Responsable des Deg&ts Cycloniques du CRESED
RAKOTOARINAIVO Malalatiana, Chef de Protocole au Ministere de la Culture et de la
Communication
RAKOTO-HARISOA Rodolphe, Directeur du Bureau du Projet de Developpement de la
Plaine d'Antananarivo



6
RAKOTOMANGA Alexander, Directeur Technique a I'AGETIPA
RAKOTONDRALAMBO Andriantahiana, Directeur Technique de l'Association
Nationale d'Actions Environnementales
RAKOTOSON, Directeur General Adjoint, Societe d'Exploitation du Port de Toamasina
RANDRIANARISOA Richard, Secr6taire General du Ministere des Travaux Publics
RANDRIARIMANANA Harison, Secretaire General du Ministere de l'Agriculture
RAPELANORO-RABENJA Harivelo Aime, Coordonnateur National du Projet PASAGE
RASOLONJATOVO Jean Michel, Secretaire General du Ministere de l'Amenagement
du Territoire et de la Ville
RAZAFIMBELO Rachel Emma, Responsable de la Passation des Marches du projet
CRESAN
RAZAKANDISA Rene, Directeur Administratif et Financier a 1'AGETIPA
SCHELLING Rosmarie, Coordinatrice de la Cooperation Suisse
VAN DE SCHOOR Patrick, Directeur Administratif et Financier, SNTP International



ANNEX B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
]
]
1
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION
PROJFET or RERIJABIIJTAT1ON D'i.JRGENCR
]                   SUFTE AUX DEGATS CYCLONIQUES
CREDIT IDA No 2625-MAG
Rapport provisoire
I
Septcrnbrc 1997.



GLOSSAIRE
CRAC: Cellule de Reconstruction Apres Cyclone
CNC:   Comite National de Coordination
DRTP: Direction Regionale des Travaux Publics
HIMO: Haute Lntensite de Main d'Oeuvre
ONE:   Office National de l'Environnemenit
MAT:   Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire
MDB: Ministere de la Decentralisation et du Budget
MTM:  Ministere du Transport et de la Meteorologie
MTP:   Ministere des Travaux Publics
PIP      Programme d'Investissement Public
PME:  Petites et Moyemnes Entreprises
PNUD: Progralnmne des Nations-Unies pour le Developpement
PRUDC: Projet de Rehabilitation d'Urg'ence suite aux Degats Cycloniques
RRRN: ReIiabilitationi du Reseau Routier National
SP:      Secretariat Permanent



1                                               ~~~~~~~~~~I AI.L,EI.1)1 S  MAIII.TI    I B;
1'. i i;iM
I - iIloSRIQ.'l(Q
]                     I I - Situation macro-econorniquc .......................................................  I
I 2 - Situation sectorielle .......................................................   ....
I 1  - Les aleas climatiques el les le.cons de I1exp6rience .................................................   . 4
J                     14 - Les r6ac.tions et strat6gics du Gouvernemnent et de la Banque ......................                               .............7
I Le P'rojet de R0habilitalion  d'Urgenice suite aux  I&gfils Cycloniques .............8.........
]
11- EVALUATION DE L'EXECUTION TECHNIQUE ET FINANCIERE
]                     11 1 - Volet << R6habiIitation des RN >! ..........................                                                               I,,
11.2 - Volet "< Reliabilitation des L3Btiftents flhlics '.............................. ........ ..... 1 5
11 I - Volet (< DWfonse c6tiere'FOAMASINA   )) ....   ..... 16
J 4 - Vollt t< RThabilitation diu port de TOAMASINA  .. .............................................. .. I 
11.5 - Volet << Rehabilitation de la 1Production i I3RICKAVILLE  i ...............................
f11. - Vole4t "< Rehabilitation des rues d'ANlI'ANANARIVO Q                               .................................. .. .
11.7  - Volet <e Protection cocitre les inondations o ..                           .    ........... .............. ...............   .......... I
11.8 - Volct < IProtection des bassins versants et gestion  des risques   .2... ...     ....... .0
1 1.9 - Volet o Appui au CNC  >> ...................2...................                                   ........       .. ..0.. 2 
J I 10 - Ex6cution financire .......................
III - IV'AIUJATION DE LA PROGRAMMATI(N ET 1DW LA STRIUT('iRE
DE, GESTION    .......... .. . ..... .... ..              ....   ,. ..........                  ...  ...  ........ .           . 
JIV  - tI,(OMNv4ANI)ATION1S......                                             ...... ...          ......
J                'ANNEXEIS
.. I
Ann.xe A: 1TABL,EAUL SYNOP'rlOL3E m>S OP1ERATIONS
Annexc 13 SIAU.T1IION DFl. 1D; CAI%SI Ml:NNT PAIR COM11P()SANTlI
Annoxe C    SI'I IJATI ION  D)1, DI.CAISSFlM                       N1' 1'AJ? R         1 CATI:03 1 )11   1)1D      1 kNSI :S
3                     Annexe D CALFI.NI)RIlF lI)'BXFBCU'TION 1U11 RIUDC
J
J
J



KREPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
I                            RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECIITION
]                                        Septembre 1997
Projet de Rehabilitation d'Ulrgencc suite aux Degats Cvcloniques
Credit IDA NO 2625 - MAG
]
]                                           PREFACE
]
1. Le present document constitue le rapport de fin d'execution du Projet de Rdhabilitation
3        d'Urgence suite aux Degats Cycloniques (PRUDC) dont l'accord de Credit a dte signe entie
la Repubhique de Madagascar et l'Association Internationale de Developpernent (IDA) en
date du 24 Juin 1994.
]    M2. Mis en vigueur le 29 Septembre 1994, le projet devait initialement s'achever le 31
decembre 1996; cependant, suite a une' prorogation convenue entre les deux parties, la date
d'achevement a ete reportee au 31 decembre 1997. Ia date de cloture etant fixee au 31 avril
1998. Un cr6dit d'un montant de 9.3 millions de DTS a etl milis a la disposition du projet
PRUDC.
J        3. Ce rapport a ete etabli conjointement par les cohsultants Mr. RAJOELISON Henri Roger,
Ingenieur des Travaux Publics, et Mr. RATSIMBAZAFY Eric, Economiste, avec la
]        contribution de Mr. BIA Jean Paul, Architecte DESA, Secretaire Pemianent du Comnite
National de Coordination du Projet PRlJDC, et Mme RANAIVOSOA Pati-icia. Responsable
Administratif et Financier. Ce rapport est base sur les documents suivanis:
- I'accord de credit
- I'annexe technique en date du 24/05/94
]             - les rapports etablis par le Secretariat Permanent du CNC
- les enquetes et interviews entrepris par les consultants.
J
I



1
I. HISTORIQUE
I.1 - SITUATION MACROECONOMIQUE
1.1  Madagascar est la plus grande des cinq iles de l'Ocean Indien, d'une
superficie de plus de 587 000 Kilometres carres. Elle a un environnement
naturel diversifie. L'economie'de production est, comme partout ailleurs en
Afrique, constituee par trois secteurs d'activites classiques: le primaire,
pour 35% environ du PIB et employant plus de 70% de la population active, le
secondaire pour 15% et le tertiaire pour 50%. Avec une population de plus de
12 millions d'habitants, ayant une accroissement annuel de pres de 3% et un
revenu per capita de US$250, Madagascar fait partie des pays les plus pauvres
du monde. Cette  situation  resulte de  la mise  en oeuvre d'une  politique
Iconomique inappropriee depuis les annees 1970 avec des nationalisations
massives, un important secteur public, un contr6le excessif des activites du
secteur  prive.  Entre  1978  et  1980,  Madagascar  a  adopte  une  politique
d'investissements a outrance, investissements mal coordonnes, concentres dans
des projets non viables et finances exclusivement par des prets exterieurs.
Cette politique, combin6e avec la deterioration des termes de l'echange et un
revenu interieur stagnant, a abouti en un deficit budgetaire de plus de 18%
du PIB, un taux d'inflation de plus de 30%, une baisse du PIB reel de 10% et
un accroissement considerable de l'encours de la dette.
1.2  Depuis les annees 1980, Madagascar, avec l'aide du FMI, a mis en oeuvre
des mesures drastiques pour tenter de res6rber les desequilibres aussi bien
externe qu'interne. La politique d'ajustement est centre sur une reduction de
la demande globale. Le deficit budgetaire est passe de 15% a 4% du PIB de 1981
a 1986, le taux d'inflation passe de 30% a 13% sur la meme periode. Bien que
le PIB accuse  des  taux  positifs  ceux-ci  se  trouvent  en  dega du  taux
d'acc-roissement de la population sauf pour ]es annees 1989 et 1990 ou ces taux
sont respectivement de 4,1% et 3,1%. Cette tendance positive a ete annihil6e
par  les evenements  politiques  de  1991,  ou  une baisse de  -6,4% a  ete
enregistree pour stagner autour de 1% les autres annees. Ces dernieres annees,



2
Madagascar est tombe dans un marasme economique intense, le phenomene de
pauperisation est present au sein de la societe. Toutefois, des lueurs
positives semblent poindre a l'horizon, puisque Madagascar a ameliore ses
relations avec la communaute de ses bailleurs de fonds et que l'annee 1997
aurait un taux de croissance economique au moins egal au taux d'accroissement
de sa population.
I.2 - SITUATION SECTORIELLE
1.3  L'agriculture et ses activites connexes constituent le principal secteur
de l'economie nationale, il contribue a plus de 35 % du PIB, emploie pres de
70 % de la population active, et procure 80 % des recettes d'exportations.
Madagascar poss&de un potentiel de croissance agricole considerable. Elle a
un vaste reseau d'irrigation, largement sous-entretenu et sous-utilise, qui
constitue un avantage precieux pour l'intensification et la diversification.
Toutefois, la croissance soutenue et spontanee du secteur est entrav6e par le
manque chronique d'une infrastructure de transport et de communication fiable
reliant les ruraux aux marches, par le manque de controle et de gestion des
ressources en eau, par la protection insuffisante des bassins versants, et par
l'insuffisance des services de support aux producteurs.
]
1.4 Le secteur secondaire qui commence & se reveiller, suite a 1'instauration
J         du regime de zone franche ne contribue encore qu'& 15 % du PIB. Concentrees
essentiellement aux alentours d'Antananarivo, d'Antsirabe et de Toamasina,
l'industrie malgache gagne a se diversifier et a s'implanter dans d'autres
J         localites; mais faute d'environnement propice, surtout d'infrastructures de
communication adequates, celle-ci se convcentre autour de ces trois grands
|         centres.
1.5   Le reseau national de transport est,  lui aussi,  peu developpe.  Ces
dernieres annees, ce secteur n'a procure qu'environ 15 % du PIB et absorbe
pres de 25 % des depenses publiques. La densite du reseau routier a Madagascar
n'est que de 84 Km par 1 000 Km2 compare a plus de 122 en Malaisie, et 142 en
Thailande. Cette situation des transports constitue l'un des principaux
obstacles au developpement  a Madagascar.  L'irregularite et  le cout  des
services de transport, associes au manque d'infrastructure, limitent les
possibilites de diversification vers des activites nouvelles mettant en valeur



i.                                                3
l'enorme potentialite que recele le Pays. Guere plus de 15 % du territoire
J        bdneficie d'un acces facile au reseau routier et  ferroviaire.  Le reseau
routier comprend 11 000 Km de voies principales et de pistes de desserte.
4j       L'axe reliant Antananarivo a Toamasina est le plus important pour l'economie,
car le port est le point de passage de plus de 90 X de la totalite des
1         importations et des exportations. Cet axe est aussi la voie la plus courte
jusqu'a la mer et comprend la route nationale N2 et une voie ferree, la ligne
TCE. Les autres axes de transport sont moins developpes; il faut chercher,
dans le long terme, a equilibrer le choix de transport de la capitale vers la
mer. L'Etat et differents bailleurs de fonds mettent progressivement en place
]         les moyens d'entretenir le rdseau routier, mais aucune reponse n'est apporte
au probleme cause par l'erosion, ce qui limite 1'efficacite des efforts
]         accomplis. Les Septi6me et Huitieme Projets Routiers finances par la Banque
Mondiale, le Programme National d'Entretien Routier (PNER) finance par I 'Union
1         Europeenne, ainsi que le Fonds National d'Entretien Routier sont autant de
financements destines A ameliorer la maintenance du reseau existant.
3I        1.6 En matiere d'education, Madagascar a plus ou moins atteint l'objectif de
l'accAs a l'enseignement primaire pour tous les enfants des le debut des
]         annges 80, en construisant une ecole pour chaque Fokontany (arrondissement).
Mais le manque de qualification des enseignants et leur inegale repartition,
la grave penurie de manuels et de moyens pedagogiques, ont entraine de faibles
taux de reussite aux examens. II en est rdsult6 une diminution alarmante des
J         inscriptions aux ecoles durant une d6cennie, aggravee par la fermeture de
quelques centaines d'6coles dues a differents facteurs dont le principal fut
l'insecurite qui  regne dans  les campagnes.  Dans le cadre- du  Projet  de
J         renforcement du secteur de 1 '6ducation, le Gouvernement entreprend une reforme
du secteur comprenant d'importantes mes-ures pour ameliorer  la qualite de
1'enseignement.
1.7 De meme, un systeme de soins de sante prdventifs a l'chelon des villages
a ete mis en place durant les annees 70, donnant a 65 % de la population
1 acces a des soins primaires. Toutefois, les depenses de fonctionnement n'ont
pas  augmente  proportionnellement  A  la  demande,  il  en  est  resulte  un
approvisionnement insuffisant en matierel et medicaments essentiels, A une
diminution relative du nombre du personnel traitant, a la degradation des
infrastructures existantes. De ce fait, la situation sanitaire se degrade, le
taux de mortalite infantile s'est aggrave, des maladies evitables et



4
traitables, telles que les affections respiratoires aigues, la diarrhee et le
paludisme, sont les principales causes de maladie et de deces. Le Projet
d'awliHoration du secteur de la sante vise a aider le Gouvernement a prendre
des mesures radicales pour redresser la situation.
1.8 Sur le plan environnemental, l'erosion est un phenomene grave qui frappe
1'ensemble du pays en reduisant la productivite agricole et en menancant les
principaux equipements collectifs de Madagascar. Son intensite varie suivant
les pratiques de gestion des sols et les conditions ecologiques. Le mode de
culture sur brulis, la mise en culture des pentes non protegees et l'ecobuage
sont les pratiques qui, associees A la pauvrete et a la forte pression
demographique, contribuent a la deterioration de l'environnement et a la
destruction acceleree des forets. Ainsi une quantite substantielle de terre
arable est emportee par les eaux chaque annee, entrainant le declin de la
fertilite des sols et de la productivite agricole, l'augmentation du coOt de
l'entretien des zones irriguees, ainsi que l'augmentation du montant des
investissements et des coOts d'entretien des infrastructures. Dans le cadre
du Plan d'Action pour 1' Environnement (PAE), le Gouvernement a adopte des
mesures de protection et d'amelioration durables de l'environnement.  Les
Programmes pourl'Environnement (PEI et PEII) constituent l'instrument central
de cette politique.
1.3 - LES ALEAS CLIMATIQUES ET LES LECONS DE L'EXPERIENCE
1.9 Chaque annee, Madagascar est touchee par une dizaine de cyclones ou
depressions tropicales durant la saison des pluies, de Novembre a Avril. Le
plus souvent,  les dommages sont minime;, mais des cyclones tres violents
frappent parfois le territoire malgache. Les plus destructeurs connus ont eu
lieu en 1929, 1956, 1959, 1972, 1975, 1984, 1986, 1994 et 1996. En Janvier et
Fevrier 1994, deux cyclones et des precipitations exceptionnelles ont frappe
Madagascar. Le 13 Janvier 1994, le cyclone Daisy devastait la c6te Est du
pays, a 200 Km au sud de Toamasina, principal port de Madagascar, et
traversait l'Ile d'Est en Ouest, jusqu'A Toliara. Trois semaines plus tard,
le 2 Fevrier 1994, le cyclone Geralda atteignait la c6te Est A Toamasina et
suivait le couloir de transport entre le port et la capitale, Antananarivo.
Des  vents  d'une  extreme  violence,  plus  de  250  Km/h,  et  des  pluies
torrentielles , pluviometriedu mois atteignant 2,5 fois lamoyenne habituelle



:1                                                5
deja tres pluvieux, ont ete enregistres.
1.10   Ces  cyclones  ont  serieusement  deteriore  les  infrastructures  de
|         communication,   causant  des  degats  considerables  et  interrompant   la
circulation. D'importants travaux de renforcement s'imposent, surtout sur la
|          route reliant Toamasina a Antananarivo (RN2), sur laquelle la circulation a
ete retablie provisoirement pres d'une semaine apres la catastrophe. La RN2
est gravement menacee par la degradation des sols, les glissements de terrain,
les decollements de talus et l'insuffisance du systeme de drainage. La remise
en etat devrait se faire avant la prochaine saison des pluies. La voie ferrde
I         de Toamasina a Antananarivo (Ligne TCE) a ete emportee a plusieurs endroits
et est hors service. La c6te au nord du port de Toamasina a ete severement
erodee, des sections de la route du bord de mer ont ete emportees et le lyc6e
de Toamasina est lui-meme menace. La raffinerie de Toamasina a subi egalement
J         des degats et  la SOLIMA,  compagnie petroliere de l'Etat,  a du  importer
l'equivalent de deux mois de produits raffines. Un grand nombre d'ecoles,
centres de sante, bftiments publics, maisons d'habitation ont et  totalement
ou partiellement detruits et devraient etre rehabilites d'urgence. Le reseau
electrique de Toamasina a ete endommage et seul un service minimum a ete
I          retabli dans la semaine qui a suivi le cyclone. Les grandes zones irriguees
de la region du Lac Alaotra et de la Plaine d'Antananarivo, qui comptent parmi
les greniers a riz du pays, ont ete inondees. Dans la region de Brickaville,
a 100 Km au sud de Toamasina, les cultures ont et serieusement endommagees.
1.11  L'insuffisance des normes de construction, l'inefficacite du systeme
d'alerte et le manque de dispositions institutionnelles pour faire face aux
catastrophes naturelles ont ete les principales causes des dommages subis en
1984. En 1994,  les normes de construcitton et le systeme d'alerte ont ete
efficaces et ont permis de limiter les dommages et les pertes en vie humaine.
En revanche, la gravite des deg&ts subi's s'explique principalement par la
det&roriation des bassins versants, se traduisant par une augmentation de
l'&rosion des sols et des debits de ruissellement, combinee & l'instabilite
des sols, et, dans le cas du chemin de fer, par le choix du trace de la voie
construite dans le fond de la vallee de la Vohitra.
1.12   La mise hors  de service de  la ligne  ferroviaire et la fermeture
temporaire de la route Antananarivo-Toamasina ont revele la vulnerabilite de
la capitale en matiere d'approvisionnement. Les prix du riz et des carburants



6
ont double. Le nombre de sinistres s'6levait a plus de 500 000 personnes dont
60 000 dans la capitale, 60 personnes auraient trouve la mort. La reouverture
de la RN2 et la mobilisation rapide de l'aide internationale ont permis de
retrouver rapidement un approvisionnement satisfaisant de la capitale. La
fermeture de la voie ferree va accroitre de 200 unites le trafic journalier
de poids lourds sur la RN2, situation qui necessitera le renforcement de la
chaussee. L'ensemble des dommages causes aux biens publics ont e   estimes a
environ 45 millions de dollars US, sans prendre en compte les coots indirects
substantiels resultant du desordre economique.
1.13  En 1984 et 1986, Madagascar fut devastee par deux violents cyclones.
Kamisy qui a traverse l'Ile d'Ouest en est, entrant a Mahajanga et sortant a
Toamasina en passant par la region d'Antananarivo. Puis deux ans apres, le
cyclone Honorinina qui devasta la Cote Est. A la suite du cycole Kamisy, l'IDA
j        a  prepare  un  projet  pour  la  reconstruction  d'urgence  comprenant  huit
composantes : la remise en etat des ports, des aeroports, des routes, des
bAtiments publics, des zones agricoles, la reconstruction des installations
L lectriques, le credit au logement et des services de consultants. La creation
d'un Comite National de Coordination (CNC) etait une condition de negociation
de ce projet afin d'etablir l'environnement institutionnel necessaire pour
executer le programme. Ce credit a ete prolonge en 1986, apres le passage du
|        cyclone Honorina pour reparer les routes, le port de Toamasina, les aeroports
et les batiments publics endommages.
1.14 Dans son ensemble, le projet 1984-1986 a atteint son objectif de remise
en etat  des  infrastructures  endommagees.  Les  volets  institutionnel  et
financier ont egalement atteint leurs objectifs. Le CNC a ete cree en 1984,
& titre permanent, et a pu reagir tres raT$idement pour realiser efficacement
certains travaux urgents. Seule, la composante "credit logement", prevue en
1984  s'est  averee  totalement  inefficace  et  l'experience  n'a  pas  ete
|         renouvellee lors du credit supplementaire de 1986.  La principale lecon a
retenir est que le Gouvernement et l'IDA sont capables de reagir rapidement
et efficacement lorsque la situation appelle une intervention d'urgence. Les
principales raisons du succes du projet ont ete ; (i) l'existence d'un organe
de coordination au Ministere des Finances et du Budget, le CNC, (ii) un accord
entre le Gouvernement  et  les bailleurs  de  fonds  sur  la  strategie  de
reconstruction, et (iii) une simplification des procedures de passation des
marches.  Les cyclones recents ont  permis de constater  le bien-fonde  et



-.                                       7
l'efficacit6 des realisations du projet 1984-1986. En effet, les normes de
- construction, introduites en 1984-86 pour la reconstruction suite aux degats
causes par les cyclones s'appliquent depuis lors, et les batiments et ouvrages
J        traites ont resiste aux differents cyclones qui ont suivi. Le systeme d'alerte
fonctionne avec succes depuis 1984, il a permis de reduire les pertes en vies
]        humaines.
1        I.4 - LES REACTIONS ET STRATEGIES DU GOUVERNEMENT ET DE LA BANQUE
]i       1.15  Le Gouvernement malgache a reagi rapidement, efficacement et de maniere
organisee. Sa strategie a ete : (i) lancer un appel a l'aide internationale
immediatement apres la catastrophe, pour fournir les secours d'urgence, et
coordonner les interventions par l'intermediaire du Comite National de Secours
I         (CNS), preside par le Ministre de l'Interieur;  (ii) mobiliser toutes  les
administrations concernees pour retablir les communications et les services
de base; (iii) demander a toutes les administrations publiques d'etablir des
documents indiquant l'etendue des dommages et le cout approximatif de la
remise en etat;  (iv) rechercher des aides a la reconstruction aupres des
I        donnateurs  internationaux  pour  la  remise  en  etat  des  infrastructures
endommagees.
I
1.16  Repondant a l'appel lance par le Gouvernement,  le 6 Fevrier 1994, la
J        Banque a envoye une mission d'identification a Madagascar le 13 Fevrier 1994
afin de mesurer l'etendue des degats et les besoins, d'evaluer la volonte du
pays a intervenir promptement,  et d'aider le Gouvernement  a esquisser un
I        programme de reconstruction, en coordination avec les autres donnateurs. La
mission a recommande les actions suivantes : (i) la reaffectation des fonds
|        provenant de projets en cours de l'IDA pour financer un certains nombre de
travaux de rehabilitation;  (ii) la mise en place d'un credit d'urgence de
J        l'IDA pour financer la reconstruction des principales infrastructures; (iii)
la realisation d'une etude economique des choix entre les differents modes de
j        transport dans le couloir Antananarivo-Toamasina pour evaluer la rentabilite
economique de la reconstruction de la voie ferree; (iv) le renforcement de la
RN2 pour pouvoir supporter une augmentation.du trafic de vehicules lourds; (v)
I        la  prise  en  compte  de  la  gestion  des  risques  dans  le  processus  de
planification du developpement et dans le systeme de maintenance.



8
1.5 LE PROJET DE REHABILITATION D'URGENCE SUITE AUX DEGATS CYCLONIQUES
1.17  Le projet d'urgence a ete elabore pour permettre la restauration des
|         principales infrastructures choisies sur la base de trois criteres : (i)
1'importance  economique et sociale  des  travaux de rehabilitation,  (ii)
|         l'urgence de la rehabilitation et sa faisabilite technique et financiere,
(iii) l'absence de financement d'autres bailleurs de fonds ou la possibilite
de disposer rapidement de fonds de l'IDA provenant de projets en cours.
1.18  De nombreux bailleurs de fonds et organisations internationales ont
apporte des secours d'urgence immediats, coordonnes efficacement par le CNS
et les autres organismes publics.  Des comites sectoriels comprenant  des
representants de bailleurs et des ONGs ont ete crees sous la responsabilite
du PNUD. Ces participations importantes ne font pas double emploi mais
-        completent le programme de reconstruction. Elles comprennent
(i) Le FED qui a finance les travaux routiers urgents prevus par le
J               Programme National d'Entretien Routier;
]                (ii) La Cooperation Suisse qui a finance les etudes, le contr6le des
travaux et les travaux confortatifs de proximite de la section ouest de
J               la RN2 et la remise en etat de la premiere moitie de ce troncon,
jusqu'au PK 65,5;
(iii) La Caisse Francaise de Developpement qui a finance la remise en
.tat  des  lignes  electriques  et  des  centrales  de Toamasina,  la
J                rehabilitation d'ouvrages d'irrigation dans la region du Lac Alaotra,
l'etude sur le corridor Antananir'&vo-Toamasina, la mise en place d'un
systeme d'annonce des crues;
(iv) La FAO a evalue les degats causes aux ouvrages d'irrigation et aux
cultures dans le but d' elaborer un programme de rehabilitation du
secteur agricole.
1.19  Les obiectifs du programme sont les suivants  : (i) participer a la
rehabilitation physique et economique des zones erTdommagees par les deux
cyclones en fournissant une aide d'urgence pour restaurer rapidement les
equipements essentiels; (ii) renforcer les mesures destinees a reduire autant



1.                                                 9
que possible les degats qui pourraient resulter des catastrophes naturelles
|          dans I'avenir  en consolidant  les dispositions  concernant  les normes  de
conistruction et le systeme d'alerte, et en &Iargissant le plan d'action de
lutte contre l'erosion afin que sa portee corresponde a l'ampleur du probleme
des infrastructures a Madagascar et pour qu'il soit elabore en tenant compte
]          de l'exigence d'une gestion efficace des risques et des priorites entre les
besoins; (iii) soutenir les dispositions institutionnelles capables d'assurer
une coordination efficace; (iv) developper les methodes de protection de
1'environnement immediat des infrastructures de transport.
1.20  Le programme comprend les composantes suivantes:
]                 (i) Reseau routier national. Etudes, remise en etat et supervision des
travaux des principales routes endommagees par le cyclone: section
]                urbaine, dans Antananarivo, et section Est de la RN2 (entre le PK 65,5
et Toamasina, remise en etat seule entre le PK65,5 et Moramanga); RN47
entre Ambositra et Iarantsena; RN33 entre Telomita et le carrefour avec
I                la RN3a.  Les activites seront  les suivantes  : a) travaux a haute
intensite de main-d'oeuvre (HIMO) pour degager les routes, b) refection
de la chaussee, c) consolidation des emprises, y compris la remise en
etat des talus, la construction de mur de soutenement,  les travaux de
1                drainage et la reconstruction de ponts.
                (ii)  B_timents  publics.   Etudes,   reconstruction  et  reparation,
supervision des travaux pour: a) des batiments scolaires, b) des
centres de sante, c) des autres batiments publics et bureaux des
administrations dans les Faritany de Toamasina et d'Antsiranana. Les
criteres de choix des ecoles et des centres de sante a rehabiliter sont
ceux definis  dans  les  projets  financant  ces  reconstructions.  Les
criteres applicables aux autres bttiments publics ont ete definis par
l'agence d'execution.  Ils precisent  les localites et les types des
travaux & effectuer. Un accord de principe sur ces criteres a ete
obtenu lors des negociations.
(iii) Defense cotiere. Etude, construction et supervision des travaux
de mise  en eouvre  d'un  dispositif  de  protection  du  littoral  de
Toamasina, du Nord de la Pointe Tanio vers I 'a6roport, af in de proteger
le lycee de Toamasina qui est menace par l1'rosion cotiere.



1       -                                         10
(iv) Port de Toamasina. Reparation des ateliers, des entrep6ts, des
logements du personnel portuaire, des bureaux et du silo A cereales;
rehabilitation du reseau electrique et reparation du materiel d'aide a
la navigation; essais g6otechniques des quais et plates-formes afin de
verifier la bonne tenue de leur structure.
(v)  Voirie urbaine.  Rehabilitation  des  rues  endommagees  par  les
importantes inondations a Antananarivo, incluant refection chaussee,
construction de murs de sout&nement et d'ouvrages de drainage.
(vi) Protection contre les inondations. Rehabilitation des digues de
protection rompues le long des rivieres Ikopa, Mamba et Sisaony dans la
plaine d'Antananarivo.
(vii) Agriculture.  Rehabilitation de la production agricole dans la
region de  Brickaville,  comprenant  fournitures  d'outillages  et  de
materiel,  frais  d'operations  et  de maintenance;  rehabilitation  de
perimetres irriguees (16 000 Ha).
(viii) Environnement. Etude pour l'amenagement des bassins versants et
la gestion des risques de degradation des infrastructures routieres
(couloir Antananarivo-Toamasina).
(ix) Appui au CNC. Renouvellement d'equipements de bureau(informatique,
photocopie, logiciels dont un de comptabilite) et fourniture d'un
vehicule.
(x) Service de consulta nts.  Etudes  techniques  pour les travaux  de
rehabilitation, supervision des travaux et audits.
1.21   L'accord de credit du Projet de Rehabilitation d'Urgence suite aux
Degats Cycloniques (2625-MAG) a ete signe entre la Republique de Madagascar
et l'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA) en date du 24 Juin
1994. Sa date d'entree en vigueur fut le 24 Septembre 1994. Initialement, la
date de lachevement du projet est fixee au 30 Juin 1997, mais fut prorog6e
au 31 Decembre 1997. Le coOt total du programme, taxes comprises, est estime
a 28,77 millions de dollars US, dont unecomposante en devises d'environ 13,38
millions de dollars US. Outre le credit IDA 2625-MAG, d'un montant de 13,1



[..                                                11
millions de dollars US, des fonds provenant de huits credits en cours
serviraient a financer la recontruction d'urgence, conformement aux objectifs
de chaque projet, dans les secteurs couverts par chacun, plus precisement
a) Le Septieme Projet Routier (1905-MAG), d'un montant de 280 000
dollars  pour  financer  les  etudes  techniques  detaillees  pour  la
r6habilitation des routes RN2, RN33 et RN7;
b) Le projet PASAGE (1967-MAG), d'un montant de 840 000 dollars US,
pour financer les etudes pour la rehabilitation des batiments publics,
les travaux a haute intensite de main-d'oeuvre sur le reseau routier,
la rehabilitation de la production agricole dans la region de
Brickaville;
jf               c) Le projet CRESED (2094-MAG), d'un montant de 3 millions de dollars,
pour le financement des etudes et des travaux de remise en etat des
_coles;
d) Le projet CRESAN (22516MAG), d'un montant 2 millions de dollars US,
pour financer les etudes, les travaux et la supervision des travaux
pour la rehabilitation des centres de sante;
I
e) Le projet Ports (1752-MAG), d'un montant de 875 000 dollars US, pour
financer les etudes pour la defense cotibre de Toamasina et la
rehabilitation des superstructures du port;
f) Le Projet de developpement de la Plaine d'Antananarivo (2117-MAG)
pour le financement de la reconsthuction des digues endommagees dans la
Plaine d'Antananarivo, pour un montant de 250 000 dollars US;
g) Le Projet des travaux urbains d'Antananarivo (2591-MAG), pour une
avance PPF supplementaire pour financer les travaux urgents de remise
en etat des rues de la Capitale, pour un montant de 400 000 dollars US;
h) Le second projet de Rehabilitation de PerTimbtres Irrigues (2644-
MAG), d'un montant de 2 millions de dollars US pour financer la
rehabilitation des perimetres irrigues dans les regions touchees.



12
1.22 L'emploi de fonds provenant d'autresccredits ne modifierait en rien les
differents  projets  concernes  dans  la  mesure  ou  ils  possedent  deja
respectivement  les  composantes  qui  leurs  sont  attribuees,  donc  aucun
amendement majeur aux accords de credits respectifs de ces projets n'est
necessaire.
1.23 Le credit financerait 79 % du coGt total du projet de rehabilitation
d'urgence, representant 100 % des besoins en devises et 54 % des coOts en
monnaie locale. L'ensemble du financement IDA, y compris le financement sur
les credits en cours, representerait 79 % du cout total de l'ensemble du
programme de rehabilitation.
1.24   L'execution du Projet de rehabilitation d'urgence suite aux degats
cycloniques est confiee au Comite National de Coordination  (CNC), organe
rattache au Ministere de la decentralisation et du Budget. Une Cellule de
Reconstruction Apres Cyclone (CRAC) a ete creee au niveau du Ministere des
Travaux Publics pour executer les travaux de remise en etat des routes et de
d6fense cotiere. Une autre cellule fut  creee au niveau du Ministere  de
l'amndragement du territoire pour superviser les travaux de rehabilitation des
batiments publics autres que les ecoles et les centres de sante.
I'.



13
II . EVALUATION DE L'EXECUTION
TECHNIQUE ET FINANCIERE
II.1 - COMPOSANTE 1 : REHABILITATION DE ROUTES
2.1  Comme il a ete dit plus haut, suite au passage des depressions tropicales
Daisy et Geralda, au mois de Janvier et Fevrier 1994, les infrastructures de
transport desservant TOAMASINA-ANTANANARIVO, la RN33 et une portion de la RN7
ont subi des degradations importantes et presentaient de nombreux points de
coupures. Bien que la circulation ait ete ouverte au trafic assez rapidement,
des travaux de grande importance devraient etre entrepris pour stabiliser les
ouvrages degrades et assurer la circulation dans les conditions normales avant
la nouvelle saison des pluies. Ces mesures a caractere definitif consistaient
en (i) la rehabilitation des chaussees endommagees, (ii) la realisation de
travaux confortatifs pour les ouvrages endommages et meme la construction de
nouveaux ouvrages, (iii) la conception et la mise en oeuvre de mesures de
protection des travaux fraichement realises. Cette composante "Rehabilitation
de routes" concerne plusieurs categories de prestations : etudes, gestion,
surveillance, contr6le des travaux, et travaux proprement dits; portant sur
diverses axes : RN2 zone urbaine (PKO-PK3,5), RN2 descente de la Mandraka
(PK65,5-PK72), RN2 Moramanga-Toamasina, RN7 Ambositra-Iarantsena et RN33
Telomita-RN3a.
2.2  Pour la RN2 zone urbaine (PKO-PK3,5), l'etude d'Avant-projet detaille et
de preparation de dossier d'appel d'of-fr-e a ete effectuee par l'entreprise
GENDRON  LEFEBVRE  TECSULT  (marche  n299/IDA/PRUDC)  pour  un  montant  de
112.213.381  FMG.  Terminee dans les del-ais impartis,  l'etude  a permis  le
lancement  de  l'appel  d'offre.  L'execution  des  travaux  fut  confiee  au
groupement SMATP/SNCTPC (marche n 398-IDA/PRUDC) pour un montant initial de
5.167.479.081 FMG, pour un delai de quatre mois a compter du 16 Aout 1995. Les
travaux fut receptionnes le 27 Decembre 1995, mais un avenant pour travaux
supplementaires fut accorde, ce qui porta le montant total des travaux a
5.591.884.573 FMG, travaux termines dans les delais. La gestion, contr6le et
surveillance ont et confies, apres consultation restreinte, au groupement
DINIKA/INFRAMAD  (marche  n390-IDA/PRUDC)   pour  un  montant  initial   de



14
216.481.551   FMG.   Apres   un   avenant   pour   prestations   sur   travaux
I        supp)lementaires,  le montant final a ete de 284.594.989 FMG. La reception
de0initive des travaux a ete entreprise le 18 Fevrier 1997.
I
2.3 Pour la RN2 descente de la Mandraka (PK65,5-PK72), les travaux de remise
en etat furent confids a l'entreprise COLAS (march& n295-IDA/PRUDC), notifid
le 13 Janvier 1995. apres deux avenants, le delai d'execution fut porte a 11
mois au lieu de 6 mois pour cause d'intemperies. Le montant initial du marche
a etc de 6.267.863.434 FMG, apres trois avenants dont un pour revision de
prix, le montant final fut porte a 8.704.136.755 FMG. Cette portion de la RN2
a etc retablie avec un niveau de confort et de securite nettement ameliore
grAce a l'application de normes de construction plus evoluees (specification
plus elevees), a l'adoption de systenmes constructifs plus hardis et plus
adaptes au contexte (pont sur breche ancre au talus par des tirants, paroi
moulee ancree au talus), a l'adoption systematique de mesures specifiques de
preservation de la route contre les actions nocives de l'eau et enfin A
I'application inaugurale de systemes de protection simples et innovants
(tapissage de talus par des nattes de fibre de coco combine a la plantation
d'espuces vegetales adaptees, terre armee,...). Les travaux sont termines dans
les delais et la reception definitive a ete effectue le 17 Decembre 1996. La
gestion, surveillance et contr6le furent confies a partir d'un marche de gre
a gre (n397-IDA/PRUDC) a 1 'Association suisse FRISA SCHMALTZ pour un montant
initial de 399.895.650 FMG. Apres deux avenants, le marche s'est eleve a
598.269.000 FMG.
2.4 Pour la RN2 Moramanga-Toamasina, l'etude fut confiee au groupement
INFRAMAD/DINIKA pour un montant de 258.593,.779 FMG financee par le VIIe projet
Routier (1905-MAG). Le groupement SMATP/SNCTPC (marche n321-IDA/PRUDC)
effectua les travaux de remise en etat de cette portion de route. D'un montant
initial de 10.525.167.293 FMG, le marche; apres trois avenants pour travaux
supplementaires, se chiffre a 13.807.163.914 FMG et le delai fut porte a 8,5
mois. La gestion, surveillance et contr6le des travaux furent confies au
groupement DINIKA/INFRAMAD (marche n296-IDA/PRUDC) pour un montant initial
de l'ordre de 433.069.750 FMG qui passa, suite aux travaux supplementaires et
apres trois avenants, A 1.217.052.213 FMG. Notons que les travaux ont e
executes dans les delais impartis et la reception definitive des travaux a ete
effectuee le 28 Novembre 1996.



15
2.5 Pour la RN7 Ambositra-larantsena et la RN33 Telomita-RN33a, les travaux
de remise en etat furent confies a I 'entreprise COLAS (marche n298-IDA/PRUDC)
pour un montant initial de 6.155.638.204 FMG. Apres quatre avenants, le
I          nmontant fut porte a 9.837.155.238 FMG et le delai d'execution a 9 mois. Les
travaux consistent en des mesures de restaurations classiques mais plus
|          tranchees. La gestion, surveillance et contr6le des travaux furent confies au
groupement DINIKA/INFRAMAD (marche n297-IDA/INFRAMAD) pour un montant initial
J          de  l'ordre de  772.080.035  Fmg qui,  apres  trois avenants,  fut  porte  a
1.720.295.851 FMG et le delai d'execution fut prolonge jusqu'a 11 mois. Les
travaux furent receptionnes definitivement le 28 Aout 1996.
2.6  D'une maniere generale, les objectifs ont ete atteints, les travaux ont
ete executes dans les delais impartis, les receptions provisoires ont ete
prononcees pour les quatre marches de travaux entre le 25 Aout 1995 et le 27
|         Decembre 1995, juste avant la saison des pluies, ce qui a permis de rendre
plus fluide la circulation sur ces axes, ameliorant ainsi l'approvisionnement
de la Capitale et 1'evacuation des produits. La totalite des montants des
prestation pour gestion, surveillance et contr6le des travaux ainsi que les
montants pour execution des travaux sont entierement debourses.
2.7   Les risques qui  prevalent  resident  (i) en une  insuffisance de  la
]         maintenance et de l'entretien de ces axes qui  reduiront indeniablement la
duree de vie de ceux-ci, et (ii) en la degradation ecologique, surtout des
J         bassins versants que longent ces axes, qui aura des repercussions nefastes sur
ceux-ci.
II.2  COMPOSANTE 2 : REHABILITATION DE OATIMENTS PUBLICS
2.8   Initialement,  la  composante  "Refiabilitation de batiments  publics"
concerne les etudes, la reconstruction, la reparation et la supervision des
travaux pour des batiments scolaires, des centres de sante et des autres
bftiments publics et bureaux des administrationdans les Faritany de Toamasina
et d'Antsiranana. Les criteres du choix des ecoles et des centres de sante a
rehabiliter sont ceux definis dans les projets finangant ces reconstructions.
Les criteres applicables aux autres batiments publics ont ete definis par la
"Cellule d'Execution" mise en place au niveau du Ministere de l'Amenagement
du Territoire  dont  les  prestations  se definissaient  comme  suit         (i)



16
identification des bftiments a traiter, (ii) evaluation des travaux, (iii)
|         preparation des documents d'appel d'offres, (iv) lancement des appels d'offres
et  attributions  des  marches,  (v)  organisation  du  contr6le  et  de  la
I         surveillance des travaux, (vi) reception et remise des produits.
2.9  Des devis de travaux pour la reparation des centres de sante et des
ecoles endommages par le cyclone Geralda ont ete effectues par le Ministere
de la Sante et le Minist6re de l'Enseignement Secondaire et de l'Education de
Base. Les travaux de rehabilitation, y afferant, ont e   entrepris a partir
des financements des projet CRESED (2094-MAG) et CRESAN (2516-MAG).
2.10 L'evaluation du nombre et de l'tat des batiments publics, autres que
les ecoles et les centres de sante rehabilites a partir des projets CRESAN et
CRESED, a ete effectuee mais les projets de cahiers des charges a lancer pour
3         effectuer les travaux, taches devolues a la Cellule d'Execution du Ministere
de l'Amenagement du Territoire, ne sont jamais parvenus au CNC. Cette
categorie fut mise en veilleuse. Et ce n'est qu'en Mars 1997, sur initiative
du CNC, que fut lance un appel d'offres pour les travaux de rehabilitation du
bureau de la Commune de Maromitety dans le Faritany de Toamasina. Ces travaux
|         ont e  attribues a l'entreprise ANDRISON pour un montant de 140.676.237 FMG.
La surveillance et contr6le des travaux ont ete confies au bureau d'etudes
TECMAD. Les travaux de rehabilitation ont e   realises dans les delais, dans
les regles de l'art et selon les regles de construction anticycloniques. Le
j         marche est entierement liquide.
2.11  La realisation des travaux de rehabilitation a permis de normaliser
I         l'enseignementet les prestations desoins dans ces localites touchees par les
cyclones. Mis A part la defail lance de I iCellule d'Execution du Ministere de
|        1 'Amenagement du Territoire, le point fort de cette composante est la synergie
qui a existe entre les ministbres concern*s, les autres projets finances par
la Banque (CRESED et CRESAN) et le CNC dans 1'execution de cette composante.
11.3 COMPOSANTE 3 : DEFENSE COTIERE A TOAMASINA
2.12 Suite au prolongement de la jetee au port de Toamasina, le littoral, au
niveau de la pointe Tanio, etait devenu de plus en plus sensible A une erosion
marine. Lors du passage des cyclones Daisy et Geralda, le phenomene



17
s'accentuait et une grande partie des ouvrages attenant A la Pointe Tanio
etait emportee par les fortes houles (le phare, la presque totalite du corps
de la chaussee bordant le littoral sur plus de 500 m). D'autres ouvrages
situes plus en retrait comme le lycee de Toamasina et d'autres bAtiments
d'habitationou de bureau se trouvent du coup menaces par de futures attaques.
Il fallait donc a) stopper l'evolution du phenomene, b) prendre les mesures
necessaires et appropriees pour proteger le littoral afin de mettre a l'abri
les ouvrages sus-cites. Pour ce faire, il fallait : (i) effectuer une etude
approfondie du phenomene, (ii) determiner et evaluer les solutions techniques
idoines, (iii) fixer la solution finale et preparer les documents d'appel
d'offres, (iv) executer les travaux.
2.13 Normalement prevues pour etre financees par le Projet Ports (1752-MAG),
les etudes sur la defense cotiere de Toamasina ont ete finalement prises en
charge par le credit 2625-MAG. Ainsi, l'entreprise SOMEAH/SOGREAH (marche
n320-IDA/PRUDC) a ete chargee d'effectuer le diagnostic de l1'volution du
littoral avec definition technique d'un systeme de protection. Le montant
initial de ce marche a ete de 203.342.500 FMG, mais deux avenants pour des
prestations supplementaires: evaluation d'une option de protection du littoral
et etude d'avant-projet detaille de deux variantes obligatoires dans le D.A.O.
des travaux de protection du littoral ont porte le montant total du marche a
245.815.500 FMG et le delai d'execution a 4 mois et trois semaines. Il est a
noter que trois variantes ont ete etudiees et soumises a 1 'Administration mais
un retard relativement important a ete enregistre lors du choix de la solution
finale et lors de la prise de decision concernant l'entreprise adjudicataire.
Finalement le type d'ouvrage de protection a realiser est un ouvrage de
defense  longitudinal  a talus avec une carapace  en  enrochements  et des
franchissements occasionnels acceptes 1lFs de la conjonction d'une pleine mer
de vive eau exceptionnelle et de conditions cycloniques.
2.14   Le marche des  travaux attribue A la societe COLAS  (marche n0484-
IDA/PRUDC) a ete notifie le 7 Novembre 1996 pour un delai de 11,5 mois, ce qui
a entraine la prorogation de la date de cloture du Projet 2625-MAG au 31
Decembre 1997. En raison de l'insuffisance du reliquat du credit, les travaux
ont ete divises en un lot de tranche ferme d'un montant de 10.031.885.680 FMG
concernant un ouvrage de defense d'environ 410 metres de longueur et d'une
tranche conditionnelle de l'ordre de 504.945.974 FMG pour un ouvrage de 22
metres de longueur, d'ou un coOt total de 10.536.831.654 FMG. Apres avoir



I.                                                18
accuse  quelque   retard  au  debut,   dO  au  choix  des  carrieres   pour
|          l'approvisionnement en materiaux pour enrochement, les travaux ont atteint
leur vitesse de croisiere vers le mois de Juin 1997. Toutefois l'entreprise
a demande un avenant qui porta le delai d'ex6cution a 13,5 mois, d'ou la date
de finition des travaux reportee au 24 Decembre 1997.  La surveillance et
J         controle des travaux a ete attribuee au groupement SOMEAH/SOGREAH  (marche
n473-IDA/PRUDC),  le marche  comprend  une  tranche  ferme d'un montant  de
1.687.351.819 FMG et une tranche conditionnelle de 578.974.619 FMG. Mais apres
l'avenant, le montant se chiffre a 2.202.551.556 FMG.
2.15 Notons que l'ensemble des travaux de protection du littoral et de remise
en etat du Boulevard Ratsimilaho qui longe la cote porte sur plus de trois
|         kilometres et necessite  environ plus de  10 millions  de dollars  US.  Le
Gouvernement devrait donc rechercher d'autres financements supplementaires
pour executer la totalite des travaux de rehabilitation de cette partie du
littoral.
II.4 COMPOSANTE 4 : REHABILITATION DU PORT DE TOAMASINA
2.16 Cette composante concerne la reparation des ateliers, des entrepots, des
;         logements du personnel portuaire,  des bureaux et du silo de cereales;  la
rehabilitation du reseau electrique et reparation du materiel  d'aide a la
j         navigation; les essais geotechniques des quais et des plates-formes afin de
verifier la bonne tenue de leur structure.
2.17  Du fait de la cloture du Projet Ports (1752-MAG), Le financement de
quel ques activites prevues dans ce projet a ete effectue sur le credit 2625-
|         MAG, a savoir, l'audit du credit 1752-MAG, les travaux de rehabilitation du
port de Toamasina et  les  travaux  de rehabilitation  des  ouvrages  de  la
|         signalisation maritime au phare de l'Ile aux Prunes.
- L'audit a et  effectue par  le groupement  RAMAHOLIMIASO/BEFEC,  pour un
montant de 60.727.500 FMG, pour un delai de un mois. Prestations effectuees
et payees en totalite.
- Les travaux de rehabilitation du Port de Toamnasina ont et attribues a la
|        SNTPI (marche n54-T-94) pour un montant initial de 1.644.792.234 FMG. Apres



!.                                               19
avenafit, ce montant se chiffre a 1.879.610.539 FMG, dont les 20 % du montant
tiors taxes et la totalite des taxes sont payes par la Societe d'Exploitation
du Port de Toamasina. Le marche est entierement liquide.
I
- L'avenant qui a ete porte au Marche n'024-DTM signe avec la SNTPI et engage
dans le cadre du credit 1752-MAG concernant les travaux de rehabilitation des
ouvrages de signalisation maritime sur le phare de l'Ile aux Prunes a ete pris
en charge par le credit 2625-MAG. Le montant de cet avenant est de 556.365.439
FMG. Le probleme qui a prevalu au niveau de ce march6 est que le Ministere des
Finances et du Budget a mis pres de quatre mois pour donner son approbation
I        a cet avenant. L'entreprise a demande une reactualisation des prix mais la
BanQue a emis son objection puisque les causes du retard invoquees etaient
|         imputables a l'administration. Les decomptes de revision de prix ont ete pris
en charge sur les fonds de contrepartie du Gouvernement.
I
11.5 COMPOSANTE 5 : REHABILITATION DE LA PRODUCTION A BRICKAVILLE
2.18 Cette composante se rapporte a la rehabilitation de la production
agricole dans la region de brickaville, comprenant fournitures d'outillages
et de materiel, frais d'operation de maintenance et la rehabilitation de
perimetres irrigues (16 000 Ha). Le financement a ete impute entierement au
projet PASAGE (1967-MAG).
II.6 COMPOSANTE 7 : REHABILITATION DES RUES D'ANTANANARIVO
2.19  Concernant la rehabilitation des frues endommagees par les importantes
inondations  a  Antananarivo,   incluant  la  refection  de  chaussees,   la
construction de mur de soutenement et d'ouvrage de drainage, cette composante
a ete prise en charge par l'AGETIPA dans le cadre du credit 2591-MAG, les
travaux de reparation de six rues de la ville ont ete realises entierement au
31 Decembre 1994.
II.7 COMPOSANTE 8 : PROTECTION CONTRE LES INONDATIONS
2.20 Les travaux prevus dans cette composante consistent a reparer les digues



20
de protection rompues le long des rivieres Ikopa, Mamba et Sisaony dans la
|.        plaine d'Antananarivo.  L'entreprise  SNTPI  est  titulaire  du marche.  Le
financement est pris en charge par le BPPA (projet Plaine d'Antananarivo,
|         credit 2117-MAG)
II.8 COMPOSANTE 9 : PROTECTION DES BASSINS VERSANTS
2.21   Cette composante  concerne l1'tude pour  l'amenagement  des bassins
versants et  la gestion des  risques de  degradation des  infrastructures
|         routieres (couloir Antananarivo-Toamasina). Elle s'est fixee comme objectifs
(i) de demontrer qu'une bonne gestion de 1'environnement constitue un facteur-
|cl  de perennisation des  travaux de  rehabilitation,  (ii)  d'etablir une
collaboration  entre  Ministere  des  Travaux  Publics  et  les  agences
1         environnementales coordonnees par l'Office National pour l'Environnement par
la mise en oeuvre d'une protection durable des infrastructures routieres. Ce
marche n391-MTP/ONE/IDA a ete attribue au groupement SOMEAH/SOGREAH pour un
montant initial de 3.692.575.267 FMG avec un delai d'execution de 12 mois a
compter du 22 AoOt 1995. Apres des avenants, le montant final s'eleve a
3.835.680.498 FMG et est entierement liquide. Le rapport final fut remis le
4 Fevrier 1997.
II.9 COMPOSANTE 10   APPUI AU COMITE NATIONAL DE COORDINATION
2.22 Cette composante se rapporte au renouvellement d'equipemients de bureau
I         (informatique,  photocopie,   logiciels  dont  un  de  comptabilite)  et  A
l'acquisition de deux vehicules. D'un montant de 540.896.996 FMG, les march6s
|         y afferents sont entierement liquides.
I
II.10 EXECUTION FINANCIERE
2.23 Dans l'accord de credit, il est stipule que le CNC est tenu d'ouvrir un
compte special aupres d'une banque commerciale locale destine a recevoir un
1         dep6t de l'IDA, d'un montant initial de 850 000 dollars US renouvelable. Or,
vu les rythmes assez intenses des travaux au niveau des differentes
composantes, des la phase de demarrage, le montant effectivement alloue a ce



21
compte special,  soit 450 000 dollars US s'av&rait etre insuffisant et le
|         reapprovisionnement du compte ne suivait pas le rythme de decaissement, d'ou
une certaine difficult6 au niveau du Secretarial Permnanent pour satisfaire les
demandes des titulaires des travaux.
2.24  Au 31 AoOt 1997, pour une allocation totale de 13,104 millions de
dollars US, le montant decaisse s'el&ve a 11,171 millions de dollars US d'ou
un montant disponible de 1,933 millions de dollars US. Cette disponibilite
n'est pas evidente pour chaque composante, puisque certains amenagements de
credit  doivent  etre  entrepris,  aussi  bien  a  l'interieur  de  quelques
|         composantes (Rehabilitation do reseau routier national, defense cotiere de
Toamasina) qu'entre les diverses composantes elles-memes puisque certaines
accusent des depassements  (Rehabilitation  port Toamasina,  Etudes  bassins
versants, Appui au CNC, Rehabilitation phare Ile aux Prunes). (Voir annexe)
I
1
I
I



1.                                                 22
- EVALUATION DE LA PROGRAMMATION
ET DE LA STRUCTURE DE GESTION
3.1   Le Projet de Rehabilitation d'urgence tel qu'il a ete presente repond
bien A 1 'attente du Gouvernement qui, deborde par I 'ampleur des degats, a fait
appel a l'aide internationale pour la remise en etat des infrastructures
endommag6es  dans  les  meilleurs  delais,  pour  eviter  des  repercussions
desastreuses sur la vie economique et sociale de la Nation.
3.2 De meme, le projet presente est coherent avec la politique d'assistance
de  la  Banque  envers  Madagascar,   qui  fut  discutee  par  le  Conseil
d'administration de la Banque en Mai 1992. Les objectifs generaux de la Banque
sont de favoriser  une croissance durable  tournee vers l'exportation,  de
reduire la pauvrete et de proteger l'environnement. Elle donne la priorite a
(i) l'amelioration de.la gestion macroeconomique, (ii) la reduction du r6le
etdu domaine d'intervention de l'Etat et le renforcement de sa gestion, (iii)
le developpement d'exportations diversifiees a la faveur du secteur prive,
(iv) la diminution de la pauvrete, (v) l'elimination des contraintes au
developpement en vue d'une croissance durable. Les cyclones de 1994 ont
exacerbe une situation deja critique provoquee par des infrastructures
inadaptees, et par l'insuffisance des installations destinees a l'education
et a la sante. Le projet presente qui a pour objectif de reconstruire des
routes, des ecoles et des centres de sante endommages par les cyclones, cadre
la politique d'assistance de la Banque et a un impact positif sur
1'environnement.
3.3   Lors de la conception du projet,  les actions ont e   abordees sous
l'angle d'un programme dans lequel  les autres projets finances par l'IDA
pourraient concourrir. Cette formule a permis d'avoir une vue d'ensemble sur
les actions engagees et qui contribuent a la realisation des objectifs
assignes au projet, de saisir la coherence et la complementarite des
contributions;
3.4  Un autre point fort du projet est constitue par la mise en place de
criteres de choix des infrastructures & rehabiliter dont (i) l'importance
6conomique et sociale des travaux de rehabilitation, (ii) l'urgence de la



23
rehabilitation et sa faisabilite technique et financiere, (iii) l'absence de
1         financement  d'autres  bailleurs  de  fonds  ou  la  possibilite  de  disposer
rapidement de fonds de 1 'IDA provenant d'autres projets en cours. La mise en
|         application de ces criteres de choix ont permis (i) d'eviter le gaspillage de
fonds par leur utilisation dans des actions dont l'impact serait de moindre
J         importance sur le plan economique et social, (ii) de donner une priorite aux
travaux de rehabilitation qui ont manisfestement une caractere d'urgence,
(iii) d'eviter les doubles emplois avec des actions deja entreprises par
d'autres bailleurs de fonds.
3.5    D'une  maniere  generale,  cette  conception  du  projet  a  permis  un
deroulement presque  satisfaisant  des activites,  la majorite des  travaux
programmes ont ete executes dans les delais impartis et suivant les normes,
bien que bon nombre d'avenants pour prolongation de d6lai ont ete accord6s.
.3.6  Une synergie certaine a existe entre les actions du projet proprement
duites et  celles  des  autres  projets  finances  par  la  Banque,  mais  une
I         defaillance dans la production de rapports d'execution par les responsables
des autres projets est a deplorer. Le Comite National de Coordination n'a pas
pu dresser un bilan synthetique de toutes les actions de rehabilitation des
infrastructures endommagees.
3.7 Le Comite National de Coordination a la charge de coordonner 1 'aide a la
reconstruction. Constitue en comite permanent depuis 1984, preside par le
Ministere charge des finances et du budget, il est compose de representant des
ministeres concernes. La principale responsabilite du CNC dans le projet est
|         de prevoir et de coordonner avec les agences d'execution la preparation et la
mise en oeuvre  des differentes composantes  du projet  et d'en suivre le
|         deroulement.  Le CNC a un Secretariat Permanent qui est responsable (i) de
veiller a l'application de procedures comptables et de passations de marches
I         acceptables par la Banque,  (ii) d'approuver et d'envoyer  les demandes de
paiements directs ou a partir du compte special, ainsi que les demandes de
reapprovisionnement de ce dernier. L'une des forces du projet a ete la qualite
I         des prestations des responsables de ce Secretariat Permanent qui ont su faire
face aux differentes contraintes et difficultes. Au fil des projets, ils ont
!         acquis des experiences qui ont profit6 au projet 2625-MAG. Par ailleurs, le
projet a pu beneficier de certains assouplissements au niveau des procedures
de passation de marches,  ce qui a permis un raccourcissement  du circuit



I      -  d'approbation.
3.8 Comme iI a e   prevu dans 1 'annexe technique de I 'accord de credit, deux
cellules de travaux d'ugence ont ete creees, l'une sous l'autorite directe du
Ministere des Travaux Publics pour superviser 1'execution des travaux de
remise en etat des routes nationales et de defense c6tiere, l'autre sous
l'autorite de l'Am6nagement du Territoire pour superviser la reconstruction
de bhtiments publics autres que les ecoles et les centres de sante. La Cellule
de Reconstruction Apres Cyclones (CRAC) au niveau des Ministere des Travaux
Publics fut dotee d'6quipements appropries & partir du projet 1905-MAG et
ben6ficie de l'assistance d'un expert technique de la Mission de Cooperation
Frangaise ainsi que de la contribution des Directions Regionales des Travaux
Publics. La relation entre cette cellule et le CNC a ete efficace et
J          fructueuse,  la souplesse  de  la  structure  dont  l'autonomie,  le  niveau
d'equipement associd au savoir-faire et au dynamisme de 1'equipe ont permis
j          d'atteindre  les  objectifs  assignes  au  projet.  Il  est  a  noter  que
l'operationnalite du CRACa permis de faciliter larmobilisation d'autres fonds
J-         pour les memes objectifs, tel le fonds accorde par la Cooperation Suisse pour
le traitement de la RN2 au niveau de la descente de la Mandraka (PK56 & 65,5),
de saisir la competence de certaines ressources disponibles sur les lieux,
telle l'expertise de l'association FRISA SCHMAL2. Si au niveau des Travaux
Publics, la Cellule a honore ses obligations, au niveau de l'Amenagement du
Territoire, la realit6 a ete toute autre. La Cellule du MAT a ete crd6e et
dotee du personnel adequat. Les activites d'evaluation des digAts sur certains
batiments ont pu etre  realises,  malheureusement,  l'operation  n'a pu se
poursuivre puisque les dossiers d'appel d'offres n'ont pas ete realises. Du
coup, le mecanisme de decaissement ne pouvait fonctionner. Bien qu'une liste
de batiments & traiter ait e   arretee par le MAT et transmise a la Banque en
Novembre 1995, la situation a dt6 b4oqu6e car les DAO n'ont jamais fait
l'objet de transmission au CNC ; le responsable de la Cellule avait toujours
espere que le fonds de contrepartie (RPI) soit disponible au niveau du MAT.
II faut remarquer que le changement frequent de responsables a la tete du
ministere allie au manque d'engagement du Chef de Cellule n'ont pas favorise
le denouement de la situation.
3.9 Comme les clauses financieres de l'accord de credit le stipule, le CNC est
designe comme le representant de 1 'Emprunteur, donc de 1 'Etat malgache ; pour



25
|          le tirage des fonds du cr6dit d'urgence,  il tient donc une comptabilite
separee qui retrace les operations de chaque composante du projet suivant les
|          principes et les pratiques comptables acceptes par la Banque. Les comptes et
les etats financiers du CNC sont verifies par des auditeurs externes acceptes
par la Banque et les rapports d'audit lui sont adresses periodiquement.
I
1
l
3
l
I
l
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



26
j                    -    IV - RECOMMANDATIONS
4.1    Sur le plan structurel et organisationnel, la definition prealable des
missions, la stabilite de la structure et de l'organisation du projet sont
indispensables pour une gestion saine et efficace. La coherence du Projet dans
son ensemble est la premiere condition pour une execution optimale des
differentes composantes. Au niveau des realisations, l'idee de viabilite des
resultats acquis tant au niveau des etudes qu'au niveau des travaux devra
systematiquement attirer l'attention des decideurs. La formule "Comite
National de Coordination" avec son Secretariat Permanent dans le cas ou il
existe plusieurs composantes au niveau du projet, diverses sources de
financement et plusieurs agences d'execution, est assez positive.
4.2   Sur le plan technique, lors de la rehabilitation de la RN2, precisement
au niveau de la descente de la Mandraka, des solutions techniques innovantes
ont ete adoptees, parfois elles sont plus hardies que les solutions classiques
mais nettement plus securitaires (cas des ponts sur pieux fores, des parois
moulees ancrees dans le talus), parfois elles sont simples mais tres efficaces
(cas des terres armees, des caissons de terre), parfois elles font appel au
"enie biologique" (tapissage de talus par des toiles en fibre de coco combine
a la plantation d'especes vegetales adaptees) qui sont aussi rassurantes sur
le plan ecologique. Le merite de cette experience etait d'ouvrir de nouvelles
voies, de nouveaux axes en matiere de conception d'ouvrages, de systemes de
protection de talus, de berges.
4.3    La perception de la notion de facilite d'acces aux informations a ete
tres positive du fait qu'elle ne se li mi kaait pas seulement a l'ouverture de
Il'acces du departement & tout demandeur d'information, mais elle s'efforQait
de mettre a la disposition des utilisateers les informations qui pourraient
les interesser soit & travers les reunions de chantier, soit & travers la
remise de documents au moment voulu.
4.4    La remise par les consultants avant  la reception  provisoire d'un
memorandum des travaux realises accompagnes des divers documents concernant
les travaux dont  ils ont  assure le contr6le  et la surveillance  (plans,
dessins, specifications, etudes et autres,...) est une pratique qui merite
d'etre vulgarisee. En effet, elle implique tres tot les responsables locaux



27
de la gestion  du patrimoine.  De meme,  le  fait  d'associer  les services
decentralises dans certains evenements-cles (reunion de chantier, receptions
provisoire et definitive) forme et motive les animateurs de ces services et
|         les prepare a assumer pleinement leur r6le de responsable de la maintenance.
I1 est fortement souhaite que les bureaux d'etudes annotent dans le memorandum
les recommandations necessaires pour la maintenance de l'ouvrage, notamment
en ce qui concerne les zones sensibles.
4.5   L'approche multidisciplinaire initiee lors de l1'tude de la protection
des bassins versants devra etre poursuivie afin d'etablir une plateforme de
travail au cours de laquelle les techniciens du departement des TP et du
departement  de  l'environnement  puissent  en  permanence  s'echanger  des
experiences.
4.6    La mise en place du Programme National d'Entretien Routier (PNER) a
permis  d'ameliorer  l'entretien  des  routes.  Toutefois,   l'attention  du
departement des Travaux Publics est attiree sur la necessite de 1'entretien
regulier des ouvrages hydrauliques de type buse,  dalot,  ponceau afin de
preserver leur capacite d'evacuation contre 1 'envahissement et 1 'encombrement
des vegetaux,  en particulier dans  la zone Est;  de tailler les  talus et
versants de facon moins raide pour limiter les eboulements, glissements et
autres erosions et de prevoir des marges de recul suffisantes au pied des
talus et versants. Des actes de vandalisme sont perpetres sur les routes
nationales ; pour endiguer ce phenomene, les riverains doivent etre mobilises
afin de les impliquer dans la gestion de patrimoine. Cette approche est
preconisee dans l'etude de la protection des bassins versants.
4.7   Les operations financees par les autres projets de la Banque et celles
ayant obtenu des credits des autres organismes (FED, Cooperation Suisse,
Cooperation Francaise de Developpement,  FAO, ...) devraient etre refletees
dans les etats financiers du Projet meme si ces fonds ne sont pas geres
directement par le CNC. A l'avenir, des dispositions seront a prendre pour que
les operations financ6es conjointement avec les autres organismes puissent
etre comptabilisees par l'agence d'execution.
4.8   Comme il a ete dit, Madagascar se trouve dans une zone de predilection
des cyclones, chaque annee au moins une dizaine devastent l'Ile. Le pays
devrait donc faire face, bon an mal an, a des reconstructions ou ai des



I       -                                       28
r6hahilitations dont la grande majorit6 ont un caractere d'urgence. Bien que
des inscriptions budgetaires pr6voient ces travaux, souvent les cyclones
sevissent entre le mois de Decembre et Mars, donc l'inscription de l'annee en
cours tombent en zero budgeting, tandis que celle de l'annee suivante n'est
pas encore installee, d'ou les difficultes pour financer les travaux. De plus,
les montants alloues sont souvent derisoires en comparaison a l'ampleur des
degats. II serait temps de creer un Fonds pour la rehabilitation d'urgence
suite aux d6gats cycloniques. Ce Fonds pourrait  Wtre alimente par des taxes
para-fiscales, vu le caractere national des actions, et par I'apport des
bailleurs de fonds internationaux.
I
I
I
3
I
I



- - - - - - - - - - --- 2I-
Annexe
_____EAU SYNOPl IQUV -DES OPERANT IONS (Cr6dit_2625 - NIAG)
Compo- Catlgorie           Marclhe no        XTilulaire        Montant (ctl FMG)           D lai    Demarragc     Fin              Observntaions
sante                    otn Conventionl                    Initial         Final      initia final
I
RRRN   ETUDES         299-IDA/PRUDC        GENDRON         112.328.613      112.213.381   2im   2m    26/10/95    26/12/95
(RN 2 sortic TANA)   LT
GESTION       390-IDA/PRUDC/95   Gr. DINIKA-    216.481.581        284.594.989  6Oii   6mn   11/07/95    11/01/96
S.C.Travaux   (RN 2 sortie TANA)   INFRAMAD                                                                       Avenant no 2
397-IDA/PRUDC/95   A. FRISA S.      399.895.650      598.269.00(0  3 in   3 m    18/08/95  18/11/95
(RN 2- Mandraka)                                                                                    Avenant n 2
296-IDA/PRUDC       Gr. DINIKA-    433.069.750    1.217.052.213  6 M   11,5   07/12/94     21/11/95
_(RN2 MIGA-TOAM.) INFRAMAD                                               ni                          Avenant no 3
297-IDAIPRUDC       Gr. DINIKA-    772.050.000    1.720.295.851  6 in     Itin  26/10/94    -08/10/95 Avenant n 3
(RN 7 et RN 33)     INFRAMAD
1RAVAUX    398-IDA/PRUDC          SMATP-         5.167.479.081    5.591.884.573  4 in   4uii  16/A8/95    16/12/95 Avenant no I   RP  27/12/95
(RN 2 sortic TANA)   SNCTPC                                                                                        RD  18/02/97
295-IDA/PRUDC  *  COLAS,           6.267.863.434    8.704.136.755  6 mi  12 in  25/10/94   31/10/95 Avenant n 3   RP: 16/11/95
_______ _______   (RN 2- Mandraka)  .  .___                                                          R6ception definitivc  17/12/96
321-IDA/PRUDC      Gr. SMATP-                                                                                 RP: 06/10/95
(RN2 M/AGA-TOAM.) SNCTPC          10.525.167.293   13.807.163.914  8,5m  8,5m   05/01/95   20/09/95 Av. no 3   R. df. : 28/11/96
298-IDA/PRUDC       COLAS          6.155.638.204    9.837.155.238  4 in   9 ti  26/10/94    270)7/95 RP: 25/08/95 + 7- 8/09/95
RN 7 ct RN 33                                                                                        Av. n 4 R. D. : 27-28/08/96
RBP    TRAVAUX    005/97-                  Entreprise      14(0.676.237    140.676.237    60j   60    29/)5/97    29/07/97 Initiative prise par SP du CNC
MDDB/SGIDGD/CNC   ANDRISON                                                                          en accord avec Ie Task
.___________  .Manager
DCT    ETUDES         320-IDA/PRUDC        SOMEAH-         t72.548.750      245.815.500  3 in   4 in  08/12/94    29/04/95 Avenant n I
(protection littoral)    SOGREAI  _                      _              + 3 s                        Rapport final : Mars 1996
TRAVAUX    484-                   COLAS*        10.031.885.680   10.031.885.680  11,5  +2m   t)7/11/96   24/12/97 Notifid ie 07/11/96
MTP/IDA/PRUDC                     (Iranchc freriie)              in                                 Prolongation de 2 mois en vie
SUPERVI-    473-                  SOMEAi-        1.768.333.810(   2.2(2.551.556  12n 2m16m    29/07/96    24/11/97 Notifi Ie 02/09/96
SION          MTP/IDA/PRUDC       SOGREAI   (tranclie fetric)                               (OS anltic.)           Avcnant n I
RPT     Audit                              R.-BEFEC         60.727.500       60.727.50(0  I it m_i
TRAVAUX    054-T                  SNTPI                           1.201.807.855                                    Reception provisoire: 07/95
RPIP    TRAVAUX    024-DTM/PP/94           SNTPI                          1.515.186.767                                    Avenamt rejet6 par la B.M.
Envir.  ETUDES        391-MTIP/ONE/IDA    SOMEAHI        3.692.575.267    3.835,680.498  12 ni  18in   22/08/95   Fevr. 1997 Avenant n I
MATERIEL_____   ____________________                               54___ _ 96__996_   __il_95   Rapport rinal renis : 04/02/97
CNC    MATERIEL                      _54().X96.996   =J uil 95



|I                                                                                      Annexe B
SITUATION DU DECAISSEMENT PAR COMPOSANTE
I                                            (en million de $ US)
Deaisse
Composante               Allocation     au     Disponible  Obsertvations
30/08/97
A - ETUDES
- RN 2 (Urbaine) + Divers       0,130      0,168     - 0,038 Reamenagement
Total ETUDES        0,130      0,168     - 0,038    en cours
B - TRAVAUX
-RN2                            7,394      5,710       1,684
RRRN   - RN 7 + RN 33                   2,860       1,976      0,884
Total TRAVAUX        10,254      7,686      2,568
C - SUPERVISION
I  -RN2+RN7+RN33                0,540      0,835     -0,295       idem
Total SUPERVISION        0,540      0,835      - 0,295
TOTAL RRRN                     10,924      8,689      2,235
B-TRAVAUX                       0,526      0,015      0,511
REBP   C - SUPERVISION                  0,050          0       0,050
_TOTAL REBP                      0,576      0,015      0,561
A - ETUDES                          0      0,059     - 0,059      idem
DCT   B - TRAVAUX                       0,924      0,916      0,008
C - SUPERVISION                 0,050      0,328     - 0,278      idem
TOTAL DCT                       0,974      1,303     - 0,329_
A - AUDIT                           0      0,013     -0,013       idem
RPT   B - TRAVAUX                          0      0,300      - 0,300     idem
TOTAL RPT                           0      0,313     - 0,313
ENV.  B - ETUDES                        0,580      0,890     - 0,3 10     idem
TOTAL ENV.            ,0,580               0,890     - 0,310
A.CNC  APPUI AU CNC                     -0,050      0,094     - 0,044      idem
TOTAL APPUI AU CNC              0,050      0,094     - 0,044
RPIP   B - TRAVAUTX                         0      0,303     - 0,303      idem
TOTAL RPIP                          0      0,257     - 0,257
TOTAL GENERAL                  13,104     11,561      1,5431
|Lgende: RRRN  : Rehabilitation du reseau routier national
REBP   Remise en etat des batiments publics
DCT    Defense c6tiere TOAMASINA
RPT    Rehabilitation Port TOAMASINA
ENV.  Environnement (Etudes Bassins
Versants)
A.CNC  Appui au CNC
RPIP   Rehabilitation Phare a lIle aux Prunes
'Taux de decaissement au 30/08/97: 88,23 %



Annexe C
SITUATION DES LIQUIDATIONS PAR CATEGORIE AU 31/12197
CATEGORIE            Allocation          Liquidation             Total    Dtcaissement
IDA ($ US)   IDA (FMG)    Part locale    (en FMG)       IDA ( %)
A- REBP                                                           1$ =4.000 FMG
Conv. n5    526000      60588748      18176624      78765372
Tota.A -5.-                                            . 058874  18176-24  7    587372  2,88%
B - RRRN
n 398              4240885260   1350999313    5591884573
1 - TRAVAUX DE         n 295                7530090402   1174046353    8704136755
GENIE CIVIL        n' 321              11069232540   2737931374   13807163914
n 298              7903212800   1933942438    9837155238
DCT
1                                   n484                3663797922    847667314    4511465236
RPT
n054T          0    1201807855             0    1201807855
RPIP
n 024DTM          0    1029398514    485788253    1515186767
T :T B : .- 11100. '..: ..3663842529.  8530375045   4516    -0338        81,94%
I            2 - MATERIEL (Appui au CNC)               7:. '3 7       1       4      6.'4,B, , , 1 8 8,20%
A- REBP          50000              0            0              0
B - RRRN
Etudes
n 299                95500750      16712631     112213381
I                                   Divers                577296292     38489095      615785387
G.C.S.
n 390               274622080       9972909     284594989
n' 397               569780000      28489000     598269000
3 - SERVICE DES        n 296               1031066712    185985501    1217052213
CONSULTANTS         n 297               1464081576    256214275    1720295851
- DCT
Etudes
nD320                234110000      11705500     245815500
G.C.S.
nG473               1313608714      62824852    1376433566
- RPT
Audit         0      50606250      10121250      60727500
I                               - ENVIRO.
n 391       .      3558592137    2770883611  3835680498
L      atalsC    13500       s1O9511  ;9.6354.              7 88           103,90%
I  TOTAL GENERAL        13104000  46244686401  9610644190! 558553305911            88,23%
I
II
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I
I



Annexe D
CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION DU P.R.U.D.C.
1994                                       1995                                        1996                                        1997
COMPOSANTE                MIAIM  J  J  A  SIOINID  J  FIM  AIM  J  J  A  S  0  N  D  T  r  M  A  M  J  J  A  S  0  NID 1 JI                                      m   Am      J  A  SI         D  
1) Rdhab,flitation de routes
-Etude:                         > 
*RN2 :
-PKO-PK3,5                                   2a        20
- PK IOI1-Al 4PK328    20         29
'RN7etRN33              20 
-Travau                                   <--           --:-        
* RN2:
-PK 0. PK 3.5                                                                    i 
-PK 65,5 -PK 72                              2
-PKI 1O1-A14 PK328 --
*RN 7et RN33                                                                 - -
2) Rihabifitation bhrtmnents
Public$:
Travaux                                                                                                                                                          29       Fe
3) D4fense c6li&re:
*Etudes': March4 N'320    <-   -     
*Travaux : March6 N'484---a-   -                                                                                                                                               -      - -a
-Supervision                                                                                                                   2                                                   
4) 116habitltation Pott TMM
Travaux: March6 054-T
5) Rdthsbltttatlon Phiare
Ile aux Prunses:
Travaux:- March6 N'024                                         ------                                               
6) Etude Am6nagement
Bas sinis versants
Mareh6 N39l                                              -,
7) Appultau C.N.C.       I(LI            -
___________________  -L4gende   - Planning effectif      Planning prtvlsionnel



ANNEX C. OVERVIEW OF REHABILITATION WORKS BY THE SWISS
COOPERATION AGENCY
TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES
1994
PROJET RN2 - MANDRAKA MADAGASCAR
RAPPORT FINAL
AVRIL 1997 (mise a jour en aout 1997)
1. PREAMBULE
1.1    Situation
La Descente de la Mandraka se situe entre le PK 56 et PK 72 de la Route Nationale 2, principale artere du
pays qui relie Antananarivo, la capitale, a Tamatave, port principal de la Grande Ile . (Voir annexes I. 1.
et 1.2.)
1.2    Digits cycloniques
En F6vrier 1994, un cyclone devastateur (< GERALDA ) a provoque d'importants degats sur ce tron'on de
route. Les degradations se situent principalement entre le PK 60.0 et le PK 72.0.
(Voir plan de situation des sites - annexes 3.1, 3.2 et 3.3)
Les degradations sont constituees de trois types principaux:
*  les eboulements en amont de la route,
* les glissements de terrain en aval de la route dus principalement a la crue de la riviere qui a genere de
tres importantes erosions fluviales,
* les glissements de terrain en amont de la chaussee qui, dans leurs mouvements ont emporte le talus
aval de la chaussee.



TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES 1994
RN 2 DESCENTE DE LA MANDRAKA PK 56 A PK 72
En janvier 1996, le passage du cyclone BONITA (10 janvier) a provoque de nouveaux degats dans la
descente de la Mandraka. De plus, les pluies diluviennes des 16 et 17 janvier ont encore aggrave la situation.
De tous les ouvrages construits dans le cadre des travaux confortatifs, seul un soutenement en bois a souffert
de ces intemperies. Les degats sont dus a un important eboulement de terres et de roches provenant du
versant bien en amont de la route. Quelques talus ont ete egalement endommages.
Par contre, des degats importants dus aux crues de deux torrents dans la partie basse de la Mandraka ont et
remarques sur deux anciens ouvrages.
Des degats sur les travaux de revegetalisation ont egalement e  remarques.
En avril 1996, un violent orage a en outre provoque des degats pres de l'ouvrage 14 (paroi de pieux).



TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES 1994
RN 2 DESCENTE DE LA MANDRAKA PK 56 A PK 72
2.  OBJET DU RAPPORT FINAL
Le present rapport final a pour objet de:
* Pr6senter les travaux realises.
* Relever les faits majeurs et modifications apportees aux travaux mis en appel d'offres.
* Presenter la situation financiere du projet.
L'ensemble des travaux est scinde en deux pai-ties:
* L'une portant sur les travaux de genie civil attribu6s A une grande entreprise.
* L'autre portant sur les travaux lies A l'environnement effectues par les PME dont:
* Les travaux d'assainissement.
* Les travaux de genie biologique.



TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES 1994
RN 2 DESCENTE DE LA MANDRAKA PK 56 A PK 72
3. TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS
Les degats constates ont necessite la mise en oeuvre de travaux confortatifs lourds, de travaux
d'assainissement et de genie biologique.
3.1    Travaux de genie civil
3.1.1 Degats GERALDA 1994
La reparation des degats GERALDA a necessite 1'execution de:
*  10 ouvrages de soutenement              sites 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15, 16, 16a, 17, 18
* 3 parois de pieux fores ancres          sites 1, 14, 18a
* 2 ponts sur pieux                :      sites 3, 4
*  10 ouvrage de soutenement en bois :
Ces travaux ont fait l'objet de deux marches de travaux de genie-civil:
294-MTP/CHIASC/94 financ6 par la Suisse
295/IDA/PRUDC/94 finance par IDA
Les deux marches ont fait l'objet d'une mise en appel d'offres aupres de 4 entreprises de genie civil.
COLAS a presente l'offre la moins disante et presentant les meilleures garanties techniques. Apres analyse
des dossiers, la Commission d'appel d'offres a propose de passer les contrats avec la Societe COLAS
En mai 1995, il a ete prevu la construction des ouvrages complementaires suivants sur financement IDA:
* mur de soutenement                      site 19              PK 58+750
* soutenement par plaques ancrees         site 5a              PK 69+140
* paroi clouee                            site 3a              PK 68+920
- mur de soutenement                      site 2a              PK 69+780
Ces travaux ont fait l'objet de l'avenant N 2 au Marche 295/IDAIPRUDC/97 sur financement IDA.
3.1.2 Degats BONITA 1996
Ces ddgats ont engendre les travaux suivants:
* 2 murs de soutenement          sites 2 b et 18 b
* I murenterre armee             site 5 b
* 2 soutenements en bois         sites 5 c et 14
* Reprise en sous-oeuvre du pont N 5 ( ouvrage existant) protection des berges
* Elargissement du dalot existant au PK 72
* Reprise de descentes d'eau et de clayonnage
* Reprise du revetement de la chaussee sur 3 sites
* Travaux pour la reprise des travaux de rev6g6talisation (natte de coco, plantations).



TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES 1994
RN 2 DESCENTE DE LA MANDRAKA PK 56 A PK 72
La localisation des sites des travaux de genie civil figure sur le plan en annexe 3. 1.
3.2    Travaux Uies a l'environnement
Ces travaux ont et confies A des PME:
3.2 1 Travaux d'assainissement
1'220 metres lineaires grands caniveaux betonnes.
* 1 ' 100 metres lineaires de fosses de crete betonnes.
* 780 metres lineaires de descentes d'eau betonnees.
La localisation des sites figure sur le plan en annexe 3.2.
3.2.2 Travaux de g6nie,biologique
* 450 metres lin6aires de caisse en bois, hauteur 3 A 4 metres
* 3'500 metres carres de clayonnage
* 24'800 metres carres de revetement en natte de fibre de coco, contre 1'erosion de surface.
Tous les ouvrages ci-dessus sont accompagnes de travaux de revegetalisation. La localisation ties sites
figure sur le plan en annexe 3.3.



TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES 1994
RN 2 DESCENTE DE LA MANDRAKA PK 56 A PK 72
4  FINANCEMENT DE L'OPERATION
4.1    Financement initial de l'operation
L'operation est financee par la Confederation Suisse, ia Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement Malagasy.
4.1.1 Participation Suisse
La participation de la Suisse par ASC sous forme de don est de:
* Pour les etudes            CHF    165'000                     FMG          462'000'000
* Pour les travaux de        CHF    200'000                     FMG           560'000'000
deblaiement GERALDA
* Pour les travaux et contr6le    CHF    2'300'000              FMG        6'440'000'000
Soit au total             CHF   2'665'000                    FMG        7'462'000'000
au taux d'avril 1994 ( 1 CHF =   2'800 FMG)
Outre les etudes et les contr6les des travaux, le don suisse finance une partie des travaux de g6nie civil ainsi
que tous les travaux d'assainissement et de genie biologiques realises par les PME.
4.1.2 Participation de la Banque Mondiale
La participation de la Banque Mondiale par l'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA). sous
forme de credit (Credit MAG 2625), est de:
* pour les travaux      USD   1'500'000                  FMG         5'625'000'000
au cours moyen envisage de   (1 USD = 3'750 FMG)
Le credit IDA finance la majeure partie des travaux de genie civil.
4.1.3 Contribution du Gouvernement Malgache
* Pour les travaux de genie civil  FMG      496'108'785 selon protocole d'accord
* Pour les taxes               FMG        1'161'300'000
Soit au total               FMG        1'657'408'785  TTC
4.1.4 Repartition generale du financement initial
Le tableau recapitulatif des couts du financement initial entre les participants est la suivante:
(Voir annexe 4.1)
FINANCEMENT                  %           MONTANT FMG
(selon marches)
Gouvernement Malgache                 3.7 %         496'108'785 FMG
Confederation Suisse                 55.8 %       7'461'999'393 FMG
Banque Mondiale (selon march6 295)   40.5 %I      5'442'430'691  FMG



TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES 1994
RN 2 DESCENTE DE LA MANDRAKA PK 56 A PK 72
Cout hors TST ou TVA
4.2    Financements complementaires
En mai 1995, la Banque Mondiale a propose un financement pour des travaux complementaires dont
l'urgence n'etait pas signalee lors des premieres etudes et pour la mise en place d'une signalisation
horizontale sous forme de peinture, facteur de I'amelioration de la securite.
Le montant de ce financement complementaire est de 1'595'027'747 FMG TTC qui fait l'objet l'avenant
n 2 du marche 295/IDA/PRUDC/94 passe avec ['entreprise en aout 1995.
Les travaux BONITA ont egalement et pris en compte par ce credit.
Le financement de la gestion et du contr6le des travaux complementaires de 1995, des etudes et des
contr6les des travaux BONITA de 1996 ont egalement et finances par le credit IDA.
Marche 397/IDA/PRUDC/94 avec AFS en septembre 1995.
Le financement de l'actualisation du marche 295/IDA/PRUDC/94 a et pris en charge par un financement
IDA egalement. Cette actualisation est due A une imprevision economique au sens du code des marches
publics de Madagascar. Cette actualisation est l'objet principal de I'avenant n 3 passe avec le Titulaire en
mars 1996.
L'actualisation du marche finance par la Suisse n'a pas fait l'objet d'un financement complementaire, le
montant de l'actualisation ayant pu etre regle dans le cadre du montant initial du marche 294/MTP/
CH/ASC 94. Cette actualisation est l'objet principal de ['avenant n 2 A ce march6.
Le tableau, en annexe 4.2., indique la repartition du financement de ['ensemble de l'operation
.,
..



TRAVAUX CONFORTATIFS APRES DEGATS CYCLONIQUES 1994
RN 2 DESCENTE DE LA MANDRAKA PK 56 A PK 72
5. ETUDES, REGIE ET CONTROLE DU PROJET
5.1    Etudes et appels d'offres
Les etudes preliminaires, les 6tudes d'avant-projet detaille ainsi que le dossier d'appel d'offres ont ete
executes par le Corps Suisse d'Aide en Cas de Catastrophe (ASC) de la Cooperation Suisse, qui a mandate
les personnes suivantes :.
* Expert du Corps Suisse           :      Hans STAMPFLI
* Ingenieur responsable de l'etude    :  Jacques TARAMARCAZ
Les etudes preliminaires ont ete realisees en mars et avril 1994.
Apres accord entre le Gouvernement Malgache, la Cooperation Suisse et la Banque Mondiale sur le
financement de l'op&ation, les etudes d'avant-projet detaille et la preparation du dossier de consultation des
grandes entreprises ont et menees par les personnes susmentionnees et le bureau Balzari et Schudel,
mandate directement par ASC, en mai etjuin 1994.
5.2    Gestion du projet, Mission de contr6le
La mission de gestion et de controle des travaux a et confiee A l'Association Frisa Schmalz, suir la base
d'une offre de prestations. Cette mission a commence le 1.7.1994.
Elle etait composee des personnes suivantes:
* Directeur de Projet en Suisse          Markus FAHRNI
- Chef de Projet a Madagascar      :     Walter ARNOLD
* Chef de Mission de Contr6le      :     Jacques TARAMARCAZ
* Ingenieur geotechnicien          :      Stephane DELALOYE
- Ingenieur geotechnicien          :     Francois HEY
* Ingenieur de surveillance        :      Wilfred Ernest RATSIMARISOA
* Ingenieur Eaux et Forets               Beatrice RAVELOARIVONY
* Contr6leur travaux lourds               Rib ANDRIAMARINDAHATRA
* Contr6leur PME                   .      Emile RANAIVOSON
* Dessinateur                      .     Zakaria RANDRIANOMENJANAHARY
* Secretaire Comptable             :     Reddy Olivah RABEARIVELO
De plus, une structure de gestion des materiaux pour PME a ete mise en place.
* Chef magasinier                  :     Rado RASOAMANANA
Outre le suivi de l'appel d'offres des travaux de genie civil, la Mission de Controle a prepare les dossiers de
consultation des PME pour les travaux d'assainissement et de genie biologique.
Le contr6le proprement dit des travaux a debute le 25 octobre, date de la notification, a 1'entreprise ( ()l[AS.
de l'Ordre de Service anticipe de commencer les travaux.
Le contr6le prend fin le 16 decembre 1995, soit un mois apres la reception provisoire des travaux.



44'                                    46'                                    486 -0
MADAGASCAR
CYCLONE EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE REHABILITATION D'URGENCE SUITE AUX
-1 2,                       DEGATS CYCLONIQUES                                                                                                                               12
_      ITINERARY OF CYCLONE DAISY, JANUARY 1994                                                            An1eirnnn
ITINERAIRE DU CYCLONE DAISV JANVsER 1994                                                          O
ITINEARY    CYCLON  GRIDA, FEBRUAPRY 1994
It---   I1SNERA1RE DY CYCLONE GERLD, EVBTER 1994-
20 PWVIOMETRY FROM JAN 1, 1994 TO FEB. 10, 1994i
200   COMPARED TO AVERAGE OFT SE PERIOD 1f                                                          r
P LUVIOMETR1EODU I AN. 1994 AU 10 5EV. 19914 
no  EN%DOEAPIUVIOMEYRIEMOYENNESUREAPERIODE                                                        I
PROPOSED RERARBELrATION:                                                                  f      .  .
-           ROADS                                                                                                            i-6-
ROUTES
AREA OF PUBLIC FACGLITIES RECONSTRUCTION
ZO DItNiERVEN1ION POUR LA RECONSTRUCTION                                          AeA6n-,
ANTANANARIVO
TOAMASINA PORT                                                                                              Somboon
f     ~     AGRICULtURAL REAfBJTATsON
REfHABIIATION DE PERIMETRES AGICOLES                                            - -     Beolonono
PAVED ROADS                                                  /           ,'Adp
ROUTfS GsOUDROCNNEES                                              AnIsoh& 
ALL-WEATHER ROAD)S                                                                                   ,All
ROUTES ACCESSIBLES EN TOUTE SAISON                      .elnpdnono
RAsROADS 
CHEMIN DE PER                                   .                                   -                      M:orndtset'n
RtVERS                                                     Pore   ,            -A-
RII'ERES                            o.on
FARITANY BOUNDARIES        -       .                                                                     x
UIItES DlES EARtTANY            I                                            -,          'Mnndnlnnnn      .
B-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
IS'            Mr -  TMonoyO-      ; iMonnon. kyMononorn ...
Moev:ononen'   EonIpO    dAnddomnnn! o
I   !   *Andrlemeno     /   < Vnrnieno~~~fenoinn-Atieonono  *0#
IL'                                  Mo.nliron:   8eono   1 0RObO O  -   Sg  Tk,AdNr  2,199A
+ cer;iribhin.2 i f~~~~~t                                                                        om~~
AA.N
20   iFEB.4,1994             /                  I                       _ /  't  \\              C(MoroSomL:                                                    20F
Mor:ndoAg_<__ loimL  nebolobpoon dVo-r
10  E      9                                                                                                                                                   20io  JAN 14,1994   Ambosilr:  rbbbienan
M-d
B*                                                                                   llMnjno FdninnoA
-AN n. nneono
2I9 *_         r                                          , F ;hsv                                  Monkobon                                                                 22
S0      A.o.0i                     Vnb.enk
\      Soboenbo                  .Y5-nndn:o>o nO                             ohn'  m
TolitW~~~~~~~ .                                                        Fono*rLoeg.. oon#)~  
w+R  i   oBer:Ly ' JS '         J    ~*                Midoegp-4o-Sh                                         oo?hnbooJo,io      Ph"
W                 tJANIAI99S                                                                                        24-'
24                                     694i                            ;            N X 2'                                           TANZANA_.            fn'        on'
%*                                                                               / tmoiy ~     L   7-5                      sP A         M i                    S
\              T-\&             '9    9             >           r                                            t                                        5
Iit~~~~~~I-
2 s JAN 17,1994 , 5~~~0                                               i10 M...O {OE  
'An pr,I y                                      .0 "t
FEB.6,1994    ,SIIOMETERS -25    25~    C
s;            44  ***                        s       46-                                    4i8                             e           voo        5,S/. Me Toolgoon  >2
2'  'S                -                                                                                                                         V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d yA  .&   . 
FEB61995                                                                                  BLOM9E4
-21'                Bkily,?'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                 25
144'4                                 46'                                    4B1'                             004         o'          n' 



