Report No. PIC834
Project Name             Madagascar-Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Infrastructure
Project ID                     MGPA35914
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Public Works
Ministry of National and Regional Development
Ministry of State for Agriculture and Rural
Development
Date Prepared                  May, 1994
Projected Board Date           June 9, 1994
Background
1.    On January 13-17 and February 2-4, 1994, Madagascar was struck by
two cyclones (Daisy and Geralda). Exceptional rainfall (2.5 times the
average for the heavy rainfall month of January) and winds (up to 0
km/h) caused extensive damage to the eastern province of Toamasina and
the central highlands area around the capital Antananarivo. About 60
persons were reported killed and more than 60,000 were left homeless in
the capital alone. The donor community provided immediate relief and
helped the Government restore basic services. A Bank
identification/preparation mission and an appraisal/negotiation mission
visited Madagascar respectively in February and April 1994 and prepared
a rehabilitation program to be financed by funds reallocated from
ongoing IDA credits and an IDA emergency rehabilitation project.
Objectives
2.    The rehabilitation program, designed in close coordination with the
donor community, would help rebuild facilities damaged by the two
cyclones and strengthen measures to minimize potential damage from
future cyclones. The emergency project components were selected on the
basis of: (a) their economic and social priority as assessed by the
Government and the Bank; (b) the necessity for immediate restoration and
the technical and financial feasibility of prompt reconstruction; and
(c) the absence of financing from other sources, including IDA funds
under ongoing projects.
Program Description and Financing
3.    The preliminary cost of the total IDA financed program is US$28.8
million. It includes funds under eight ongoing credits that would be
used to finance urgent rehabilitation, in accordance with the respective
project objectives, as follows: (a) the Seventh Highway Project (Cr.
1905-MAG, FY1988) would contribute US$0.3 million to finance the final
design study for rehabilitation of three major roads; (b) the Economic
Management and Social Action Project (Cr. 1967-MAG, FY1989) would
finance the studies for rehabilitation of public buildings (US$30,000),
labor-intensive works on the roads network (US$0.54 million), and the
rehabilitation of agricultural production in the Brickaville area
(US$0.3 million); (c) the Education Sector Reinforcement Project (Cr.



2094-MAG, FY1990) would finance a study and works for rehabilitation of
schools (US$3.0 million); (d) the Health Sector Improvement Project (Cr.
21-MAG, FY1991) would finance studies, works and supervision of works
for rehabilitation of health centers (US$2.0 million); (e) the Ports
Project (Cr. 1752-MAG, FY1987) would finance a study for the coastal
defense of Toamasina (US$75,000) and the rehabilitation of port
superstructure (US$0.8 million); (f) the Antananarivo Plain Development
Project (Cr. 2117-MAG, FY1990) would finance reconstruction of damaged
dikes in the Antananarivo plain area (US$0.3 million); (g) a
supplemental PPF advance (PPF 800-1) of US$0.4 million under the
Antananarivo Urban Works Project (Cr. 91-MAG, FY1994) would finance
urgent street rehabilitation in the capital; and finally (h) the Second
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, negotiated on April 15, 1994, would
include rehabilitation of irrigation schemes in the area affected by the
cyclones (US$2.0 million).
4.    An IDA Emergency Recovery Credit of about US$13.1 million is
proposed to finance reconstruction of critical assets with no source of
funding, including:
(a)   Rehabilitation and supervision of works of major critical roads
affected by the cyclones:
+     RN2: The corridor between the major port Toamasina and the
capital city - the urban section in Antananarivo, and the
eastern section between PK 65.5 and Toamasina (rehabilitation
only from PK 65.5 to Moramanga);
+     RN33: The chromite transport road, between Telomita and the
intersection with RN3a; and
+     RN7: The major road of the central highland area, between
Ambositra and Iarintsena.
(b)   Reconstruction and repairs to public buildings and administrative
offices other than schools and health centers. Eligibility
criteria for selection of these buildings have been broadly defined
and agreed during negotiations;
(c)   Construction and supervision of coastal defense works in Toamasina
to protect a high school from sea erosion;
(d)   Strengthening of the National Coordination Committee (CNC),
established in 1984 on a permanent basis to coordinate emergency
recovery assistance, and chaired by the Ministry of Finance and
Budget (MFB); and
(e)   A watershed protection and risk management study for the
Antananarivo-Toamasina transport corridor to help the Government
address soil erosion issues in transport infrastructure design and
maintenance.
Project Implementation
5.    Implementation arrangements are similar to those under the first
cyclone rehabilitation project (CRP), completed with financing from the
Credit 1526-0 (FY1985) and supplemental Credit 1526-1 (FY1987). Thus,
the CNC would plan and coordinate with the executing agencies the
preparation and implementation of the program, to be implemented over
2.5 years, and monitor its execution. An emergency unit has been
established under the direct responsibility of the Minister of Public
Works to implement road rehabilitation and coastal defense works, and
- 2 -



another emergency unit has been created under the responsibility of the
Minister of National and Regional Development to supervise the
reconstruction of public buildings other than schools and health
centers. The components of the program financed by ongoing credits
would be implemented by their respective executing agencies.
6.    Special procurement procedures would be applied to streamline and
expedite the procurement process under the emergency project. Some
executing agencies (Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Health and
Ministry of National Education) have initiated, under existing credits,
the selection of consultants to carry out final design and preparation
of bidding documents for rehabilitation of roads and reconstruction and
repairs of schools and health centers. A senior implementation
specialist will be assigned to the Bank Resident Mission in Antananarivo
as of July 1, 1994. He will be responsible for supervising the
rehabilitation project, thus providing day-to-day follow-up of its
implementation.
Environmental and Social Aspects
7.    Management of watersheds to reduce vulnerability of transport
infrastructure is expected to have a positive impact on the environment.
8.    The program would contribute to poverty alleviation: (i) prompt
repairs to schools and health centers would allow resumption of social
services before the disruption results in major impacts on the welfare
of the population and the quality and cost of services; (ii) rapid
rehabilitation of major roads is critical to permit restoration of a
normal supply of primary necessities to the capital city and the
highlands. Prices of food and fuel skyrocketed after the cyclones,
bringing hardship to the population, especially the poor, and disorder
to the economy. The program would help to reduce scarcity, lower prices
to non-speculative levels, and support the return of the economy to more
normal conditions.
Contact Point:     Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



