Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 CREDIT NUMBER 2625 MAG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                (Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                          REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 24, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2625 MAG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has, with the assistance of the international
donor community, defined a program of measures and activities (hereinafter
referred to as the "Program") for the repair and reconstruction of public
infrastructure and other facilities damaged or destroyed by recent cyclones
and exceptional rainfall;
    (B)   the Borrower intends to use funds made available by donors,
including the Association, under other credits and programs, to finance a
part of the cost of the Program; and
    (C)   the Borrower has designed the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement to finance that part of the Program which is not covered
under other donors' credits and programs, and, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
    later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
    the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
    Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
    Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
    referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
    performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
    obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
    accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
    (b)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)   "CNC" means the Comite National de Coordination referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
    (b)   "MAT" means the Borrower's Ministere de l'Amenagement du
Territoire;
    (c)   "MTP" means the Borrower's Ministere des Travaux Publics;
    (d)   "ONE" means the Borrower's Office National de l'Environnement;
    (e)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 6 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
    (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million three
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,300,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time
at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not
to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments
payable on each June 1 and December 1, commencing December 1, 2004, and
ending June 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on June 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
    (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
    Section 2.09. CNC is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this
end, shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through MTP, Part B of the
Project through MAT, and Part D of the Project through CNC, and Part E of
the Project through MTP and ONE, with due diligence and efficiency, and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
Page  4
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end of each
                such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as
                the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of
                the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
Page  5
    Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: namely, the
Project Account has been duly opened, and the amount of the initial deposit
duly deposited therein, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Budget
          Antananarivo 101
          Madagascar
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                MINFIN               22489
                Antananarivo
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                       By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivelo
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
Page  6
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                            (Section 2.02 (a))
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)     Civil works                                 100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
    (a) under Part B of                             80% of local
        the Project                  320,000        expenditures
    (b) other                      6,410,000
(2)     Equipment                     30,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    80% of local
                                                    expenditures
(3)     Consultants'                 830,000        100%
    services
(4)     Unallocated                1,710,000
                                    _________
        TOTAL                      9,300,000
                                    =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; or
    (b)   expenditures under Category (1) (a) of the table in paragraph 1
of this Schedule, unless appropriate eligibility criteria for the selection
of buildings and offices to be rehabilitated under the Project have been
proposed on behalf of the Borrower, and approved by the Association.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for civil works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and goods and
services not exceeding $30,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           (Preamble, para. (B))
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to provide urgent assistance to
Page  7
rebuild facilities damaged by cyclones and, at the same time, to develop
further measures to minimize potential damage arising from future natural
disasters.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road Rehabilitation
    Rehabilitation of major roads affected by cyclones, namely: * RN2: the
urban section of RN2 in Antananarivo (engineering studies, construction
works and supervision), the eastern section thereof between PK 65.5 and
Moramanga (construction works), and the eastern section thereof between
Moramanga and Toamasina (construction works and supervision),
    * RN7 (the second main road of the country): between Ambositra and
Iarintsena (construction works and supervision), and
    * RN33 (the chromite road): between Telomita and RN3A junction
(construction works and supervision).
Part B:   Infrastructure Rehabilitation
    Repair or reconstruction works, as the case may be, and supervision
services, for rehabilitation of administrative offices and other public
buildings damaged or destroyed by cyclones.
Part C:   Coastal Defense
    Civil works, and supervision services, for the construction of a coastal
defense system of Toamasina, from north of Pointe Tanio towards the airport.
Part D:   Support for CNC
    Provision of a vehicle and equipment to strengthen the institutional
capacity of CNC.
Part E:   Environment
    Establishment of a watershed protection and risk management master plan
for infrastructure investments along the Toamasina-Antananarivo corridor.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                              (Section 3.02)
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, civil works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when the contract is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
3.  In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be
Page  8
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works under Parts B and C, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,450,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Goods and equipment, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $75,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Page  9
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                            (Section 3.01 (b))
                          Implementation Program
1.  (a)   The Borrower shall designate the Comite National de Coordination
(CNC) to be responsible for the coordination of the planning and preparation
of the Project, and the overall supervision of the implementation of the
Project.
    (b)   To this end, CNC shall:
          (i)   monitor the progress of the Project and the Program, having
                regard to key performance indicators, which shall have been
                agreed upon with the Association;
          (ii)  monitor expenditures incurred under the Project, and
                authorize payments accordingly;
          (iii) have the records and accounts pertaining to the Project
                audited, and certified copies of such audits transmitted to
                the Association, in accordance with the provisions of
                Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and
          (iv)  not later than two months after the end of each quarter,
                submit to the Association quarterly progress reports,
                giving details of the progress of the Program and of each
                component of the Project, and particulars of any issues
                arising therefrom, the status of procurement actions and
                disbursements, and such other particulars as the
                Association shall reasonably require on the progress of the
                Project.
2.  The Borrower shall take appropriate steps to expedite procurement
actions under the Project and, to this end, shall ensure that:
    (a)   not later than ten working days after the latest date for
submission of bids, the respective implementing agencies shall review all
bids, and submit a bid evaluation report, along with a recommendation, to
CNC; and
    (b)   not later than five working days after receipt of the bid
evaluation report, and based on the findings and recommendation thereof, a
final determination shall be made by CNC and communicated forthwith to the
respective implementing agencies.
3.  For purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish within MTP an emergency unit, whose functions and composition
shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for the day-to-day
management of the implementation of road rehabilitation and coastal defense
works.
4.        For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   establish within MAT an emergency unit, whose functions and
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for
the day-to-day management of the repair and reconstruction of buildings and
offices; and
    (b)   ensure that all repair and reconstruction works undertaken under
the Project shall (i) satisfy the eligibility criteria agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, and (ii) be conducted in accordance with appropriate
cyclone-resistant building standards.
5.  For purposes of civil works undertaken under the Project, the Borrower
shall take adequate steps to ensure that such works shall be conducted with
due regard to the need for adequate safeguards for the protection of the
Page  10
environment, and that adequate provisions to that effect are included in the
relevant works contracts.
6.  (a)   The Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, an account in local currency,
into which it shall deposit from time to time its local counterpart
contribution to the cost of the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   make an initial deposit of the equivalent of $450,000 into
                the account referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this
                paragraph; and
          (ii)  have such account replenished on a quarterly basis, or
                whenever the balance thereof equals not more than one third
                of the amount of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
                first.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                            (Section 2.02 (b))
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $850,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Page  11
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
