Epy sur                    Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R              T                    Report No. P-2074-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR THE
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
May 12, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                         Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate
used in the appraisal report, which approximates the current rate, is:
US $ 1                D    0.417
D    1                US $ 2.40
D    1,000            US $ 2,400
D    1,000,000        US $ 2,400.000
Fiscal Year                 January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations:
BNT        National Bank of Tunisia
DEGTH      Directorate of Studies and Major Hydraulic Works (Ministry
of Agriculture)
DGTH       Directorate of Major Hydraulic Works (Ministry of Public Works)
KfW        Kreditanstalt fur WiAederaufbau
OPEC       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OMvvM      Office for the Development of the Lower Medjerda Valley
SNCFT      Tunisian National Railways Company
SONEDE     National Company for the Exploitation and Distribution of
Potable Water
STEG       Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR THE SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Tunisia, for the equivalent of US$42 million to help
finance the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per
annum. Additional loans amounting to $54 million and $15 million respectively
for the project have been obtained from the People's Republic of China and
Iran; further financing of $28 million and $5 million respectively for the
project is expected to be provided by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau and
suppliers. Finally, the Government of Tunisia has reached agreement in prin-
ciple for additional financing for the project from Arab and OPEC sources.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A special economic mission visited Tunisia in December 1976 to
review the draft Tunisian Fifth Plan, 1977-1981. A special economic report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia, Review of the Fifth
Development Plan, 1977-81" (No. 1539-TUN) was issued on May 2, 1977. Country
data sheets are attached in Annex 1.
3.        Tunisia's development has been hampered by scarcity of natural re-
sources. Much of the country is arid or semi-arid, and agriculture is highly
dependent on rainfall. Minerals are mostly of low quality and, apart from
phosphates, limited in quantity. Relatively small quantities of petroleum
were discovered in the mid-1960's and have since become an increasingly
valuable source of revenue and export earnings. Industrial development has
been handicapped by the small size of the domestic market as well as a lack
of skills and experience. Tourism has developed rapidly and workers' remit-
tances have become a significant item in the balance of payments. Tunisia
has enjoyed a large amount of external aid and used it to expand economic
and social infrastructure, bro'aden the industrial base, make available a wide
range of social and welfare services to a large part of the population, and
increase the rate of growth. Per capita GNP increased by 4.2 percent annually
from 1961 to 1975. Like most countries, however, Tunisia has not yet found
adequate ways to cope with unemployment and poverty and to achieve a balanced
distribution of consumption among income groups, between urban and rural
areas, and among regions.
4.        Government strategy in the 1960's relied heavily on central plan-
ning of investment and resource allocation, with the public sector playing
a major role in production as well as providing infrastructure and services.
1/   Substantially identical to Part I of the President's Report (P-1958-TUN,
December 13, 1976) for the Second Power Project.
This document has a restrkted distibution and may be used by rcapwents only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosd without World lank authorization.



Foreign exchange shortages and concern with inflation led to recourse to a
pervasive system of price determination and controls. An unusually long
series of poor crop years due to shortage of rainfall slowed the growth of
output. Many investments in public enterprises proved to be uneconomic and
private initiative in most sectors except tourism and petroleum was limited.
5.        The Government's present development strategy was introduced in the
early 1970s. Its principal objectives are: (a) accelerating growth based on
export-oriented industries, by encouraging private initiative, reducing direct
Government involvement in production and relaxing administrative regulations;
(b) creating jobs, primarily in the expanding industrial sector, encouraging
worker emigration, reducing population growth and improving education and
training; and (c) maintaining internal and external financial stability. The
1973-76 Fourth Plan set a target rate of GDP growth of 7 percent, providing
for a 5.4 percent growth rate in per capita private consumption. Investment
was projected to increase by 80 percent above the level of the 1969-72 Plan.
National savings were to finance three-quarters of investment. Exports of
goods and services were projected to grow at 8.8 percent per year at constant
prices and imports at 12.2 percent. The Plan foresaw net external capital
inflows increasing by 55 percent over 1969-1972 average levels and providing
23.5 percent of total investment. Debt service was to be held to below 20
percent of exports. The original Plan targets were conservative in terms of
both growth and savings potential, and have been significantly affected by
the impact of the changed petroleum and phosphate prices on the Tunisian
economy (paras. 9 and 10).
6.        The real growth of GDP has accelerated since 1970, reaching 9.3
percent per annum during 1970-75, compared with 4.6 percent during the pre-
vious decade. The acceleration can be attributed to fortuitous factors such
as good weather, leading to record cereal and olive crops, to important
growth in tourism, petroleum and phosphate revenues and workers' remittances,
and to the general reorientation of Government policy since 1970 which re-
newed self-confidence and initiative in the private sector. Expansion of
manufacturing and phosphate production has been significant. By 1975, per
capita GNP reached $760 (1976 Bank Atlas estimate). Investment remained
high in relation to GDP, 24 percent in 1970-75 compared with 23 percent during
the 1960's. National savings rose sharply from an average of 13.5 percent of
GDP at current prices during the 1960's to 21 percent during 1970-75. Con-
sequently, the share of external borrowing in financing investment dropped
from 44 percent in the 1960's to 11 percent during 1970-75.
7.        Because of price controls and Government subsidies of basic consumer
goods, and prudent fiscal and monetary policies, Tunisia has maintained rela-
tive price stability. Consumer price increases averaged 5.2 percent annually
during 1970-75. The official GDP deflator rose at an average annual rate of
8.0 percent and average investment costs increased by 11.6 percent.
8.        The balance of payments was in overall surplus from 1967 to 1974 and
since late 1973 benefitted greatly from sharply improved terms-of-trade. How-
ever, in 1975 the terms of trade began to deteriorate, the demand for Tunisian



exports sharply decreased, and despite substantial disbursements on external
borrowing, international reserves declined by 11 percent. At the end of 1976,
net reserves amounted to $344 million, equivalent to about 3 months of imports.
9.        Despite the terms-of-trade loss in 1975, Tunisia on balance still
is a beneficiary of the changes in world market prices since late 1973.
Mainly because of sharply higher prices for petroleum, phosphates and olive
oil, export earnings rose from $714 million in 1973 to $1,254 million in 1974
and $1,356 million in 1975. On the other hand, increases in import prices,
combined with higher domestic demand, caused payments on imports to grow from
$782 million in 1973 to $1,242 million in 1974 and to $1,565 million in 1975.
In the medium-term, Tunisia's current account balance is likely to be in-
fluenced by slower economic growth in Western Europe. Taking into account
probable capital inflows through direct investment and external aid, the level
of net reserves is projected to remain equivalent to about 3 months of imports
during 1976-81.
10.       The projected changes in Tunisia's balance of payments position and
in Government savings do not call for a substantial revision in development
strategy. They suggest rather that Tunisia should continue its efforts to
achieve high investment and GDP growth rates. Since workers' emigration to
Europe and Libya is now more limited, the effort to increase investment, par-
ticularly in labor-intensive industry and agriculture, should be increased.
With an adequate savings level and continuing external aid, the Tunisian
economy has the financial resources that should enable it to sustain an
average annual growth rate of between 7 and 8 percent during 1976-81. The
level of future growth would also depend on continuing efforts to stimulate
private investment, to increase the international competitiveness of industry,
and to improve the planning and implementation of public investments.
11.       Tunisia has made impressive social gains.   By 1974, primary school
enrollment had reached 88 percent, and secondary enrollment, 19 percent, of
the relevant age-groups. Public health services have been greatly expanded
with many provided free. A family planning program has been introduced.
Total social expenditures during 1970-75 increased by about 10 percent per
annum and on average accounted for 9 percent of GDP and for 30 percent of
total public expenditures. Nonetheless, major social issues remain. Further
progress is needed in land reform and in creating employment. The unemploy-
ment rate is estimated to have been about 22 percent in the non-agricultural
sectors in 1976; underemployment in the rural sector remains high. There has
been a growing concentration'of productive activities in a few urban areas,
especially in Tunis.
12.       So far as can be judged from available data, there has been a gradual
improvement in income distribution. Real incomes increased in all sectors
during the 1960's, yet by a higher percentage in the modern sector than in
the rural sector, due partly to the series of poor harvests. In rural areas
substantial income disparities remain, in part as a result of the structure of
land tenure. In the modern sector, especially in industry, increases in real
incomes in the 1960's exceeded the rise in productivity; the income distribu-
tion trend has favored industrial workers. Thanks especially to the income



- 4 -
redistribution effects of free social services, the proportion of the total
population living in poverty, as defined by the Tunisians (i.e. earning less
than D 70 per capita annually at 1975 prices), was substantially reduced
during the decade. Most of this group continues to live in rural areas.
Since 1970, higher agricultural output, increases in minimum agricultural
wages, tax exemptions for low incomes, the inflow of workers' remittances
from abroad and the stabilization of basic commodity prices through Government
subsidies have improved the absolute, and possibly also the relative, position
of the poorest groups.
13.       During 1970-75, agriculture provided about half of total employ-
ment, 28 percent of merchandise exports and 19 percent of GDP. Food process-
ing accounted for another 3 percent of GDP and over a third of value added in
manufacturing. During this period agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Large infrastructure investments
were made during the last decade. Current policy emphasizes projects that
make a rapid and direct contribution to production and recognizes various
constraints on agricultural development: absentee ownership, insecurity of
tenure, inadequate access to agricultural credit, inadequate extension ser-
vices, insufficient agricultural education, and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan, about $140 million was allocated to a
rural development program which has been executed by the provincial adminis-
trations.
14.       During the 1960's, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased
by 8 percent annually. There has been a remarkable acceleration of growth in
the 1970's due in part to record years for the olive oil processing industry
and to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The
early thrust of industrialization was supplied by large import substitution
projects in the social sector. These suffered, however, from the limited
domestic market and shortages of experienced staff and management. More
emphasis has been put on export-oriented private industries since 1970.
Under the Fourth Plan, private manufacturing investment, particularly in
food processing, textiles, fertilizers and metals transformation, was ex-
pected to average D 25 million per year, compared with D 12 million in 1972,
and to account for two-thirds of total investment in manufacturing; these
targets have been exceeded. Foreign and domestic private investment is now
stimulated by a comprehensive incentive framework, and facilitated by the
streamlined approval procedures of the investment promotion agency. Foreign
investors are expected to contribute know-how and overseas marketing. A new
agreement between Tunisia and the European Community was signed in April 1976.
It provides for duty-free entry into the countries of the Community of nearly
all Tunisian industrial products. The Government has established a special
fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial decentralization,
and has started a program to establish industrial estates.
15.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.   Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached a level of 780,000 in 1972, with an annual rate of
growth over the period 1961-1972 of 30 percent -- higher than that of any
other Mediterranean country. While 1973 saw a drop in the number of visitor
nights, and 1974 registered another overall drop, there was a very strong



- 5 -
recovery in 1975, with over one million visitor arrivals. Since 1970, earn-
ings from tourism have been a major source of foreign exchange, having reached
$300 million in 1975. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has unfor-
tunately been accompanied by an inadequate development of infrastructure
(particularly recreational facilities), shortages of trained manpower and
inadequate services. The Government is endeavoring to alleviate these con-
straints through a variety of measures, including revised investment in-
centives, increased marketing and training efforts, codes to enforce quality
standards and more stringent zoning laws.
16.       Since the early 1960's Tunisia has obtained relatively large amounts
of official aid. A Consultative Group has provided a forum for aid-coordina-
tion among major donors (see para. 25). During 1970-75, annual loan commit-
ments from public sources averaged $155 million, or about $28 per capita.
About 68 percent of these commitments came from bilateral public sources,
chiefly from France (15 percent), Canada (13 percent), and the Federal Republic
of Germany (10 percent). About 14 percent came from oil-producing countries,
whose share rapidly increased from 8 percent in 1970 to 16 percent in 1975.
Commitments from the Bank Group during 1970-75 accounted for 29 percent of
total public commitments. Most aid has been obtained on concessionary terms:
during 1970-75, the average terms of borrowing from bilateral sources were 3.5
percent interest and 23 years to maturity, including 6 years of grace; from
multilateral sources, they were 6.0 percent interest and 26 years to maturity,
including 5 years of grace. During the same period Tunisia also received
annually some $40 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $32 million a year. Direct foreign private investment has been com-
paratively small, but recently it has picked up momentum following increased
activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign in-
vestors in manufacturing. Thus, net direct foreign investment increased from
$19 million in 1970 to $48 million in 1975.
17.       Tunisia's total public debt outstanding (including undisbursed) in-
creased from $846 million in 1970 to $1,571 million at the end of 1975. The
disbursed portion outstanding at the end of 1975 was $1,071 million, equivalent
to 25 percent of GDP, compared with 40 percent in 1970. Debt service payments
in 1975 were 7.6 percent of export earnings compared with 19.5 percent in 1970.
This significant decline in the debt service ratio was mainly due to the sharp
increase in export earnings following the changes in world market prices in
1973 and 1974; it also reflected Government efforts to change the structure of
Tunisia's foreign debt. In the future, Tunisia will have to continue to rely
heavily on foreign financial assistance in order to reach its development
goals. Tunisia is capable of servicing substantial additional debt, and it
is projected that, despite a sharp increase, Tunisia would be able to maintain
its debt service ratio at a manageable level in the long run.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
18.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of twenty-seven loans and
ten credits amounting respectively to $341.4 million and $70.1 million, net of
cancellations and refundings. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank



- 6 -
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1977, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits
have been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole project execution
has been satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved and independent agencies have been created
or strengthened.
19.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments; and (d) provide selective support for
the development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public
services. The main supporting feature of this lending strategy is to encourage
the Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects,
with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating with the
Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic and foreign
resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the latter is par-
ticularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs,
the large size of many priority projects, and the limited availability of Bank
resources relative to the country's needs.
20.       Within this broad framework, past Bank Group lending has emphasized
support for long-term investments in infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, education,
family planning and the Tunis urban planning and public transport project has
accounted for 32 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia. Lending for
transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for a further 35
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 12 percent of total commit-
ments. Industrial and hotel financing through the Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET) has accounted for 15 percent, and the Gafsa
phosphate development project received 6 percent of total commitments.
21.       In agriculture, Bank involvement, in several sub-sectors, has met
in some cases with success, in others with difficulties. The first agricul-
tural project financed by the Bank Group was the 1967 Cooperative Farms
Project, completed in 1973 after substantial delays and revisions caused by
changes in Government agricultural policy in 1969. The First Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN, $8 million, of 1971) and a 1971
IDA-financed Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN, $2 million) for development
of Tunisia's inshore fisheries, are expected to be fully disbursed in 1977
and 1978 respectively. A loan for an Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan
1068-TUN, $12.2 million) became effective in September 1975. The Bank has
also attempted to play a more active role in rural development in Tunisia, but
no specific project in this field has as yet materialized. Our experience to
date has, however, served to underline the necessity for very close coordina-
tion and careful preparation of future projects in this difficult but high
priority sphere.
22.       Lending in the current fiscal year and in the period ahead emphasizes
projects promoting agricultural and industrial production, such as the Second
Agricultural Credit Project approved by the Executive Directors in November,



1976, and urban and social development. Complementary to this primary focus,
the program would also finance selected priority infrastructure projects.
Projects under discussion with the authorities include a second fisheries
project, a rural roads project, a seventh development finance company project
including a small industries component, a second sewerage project, a project
for the development and transmission of Tunisia's off-shore gas resources, and
an urban development project. A fourth water supply project is expected to
be the final Tunisian project presented to the Executive Directors during the
current fiscal year; the project would depend on facilities to be constructed
under the project proposed in this report.
23.       The Bank Group accounted for about 23 percent of disbursements of
official assistance to Tunisia during 1970-75. The Bank Group's shares in
total debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1975 (including loans from
private sources) and in debt service during 1975 were 15 percent and 14 percent
respectively. The Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is
expected to decrease by 1980 to about 13 percent, and its share in debt service
to about 10 percent.
24.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFITOUR, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce aluminium
fluoride from local fluorspar for export. IFC's most recent investment, in May
1975, was in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development project. IFC's
net commitments in Tunisia total $15.8 million. IFC's Board has approved the
sale of IFC shares in NPK Engrais to the Tunisian Government.
25.       Since 1962 the Bank has chaired a Consultative Group for Tunisia
bringing together the principal donor countries and institutions concerned
with the country's development. The most recent meeting of the Group, held
in Paris in June 1975, welcomed new participants, which included Saudi Arabia,
Japan, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Commission
of the European Communities. This year, in lieu of a meeting of the Con-
sultative Group, a development conference is being organized by the Government
in Tunis in early July 1977.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
26.       Although the agricultural resource base in Tunisia is quite poor,
the sector plays an important role in the economy. In 1975, agriculture
employed about half of the labor force, contributed about 21 percent of GDP
and provided some 20 percent of total merchandise exports. A little over one
third of Tunisia's total land area, or about 5.3 million ha, is classified as
cultivable; the remainder is range land suitable for extensive sheep-grazing
and low-yielding forest, and desert. The cropped area covers about 3 million



- 8 -
ha, of which 1.3 million ha under perennial crops. The most important agricul-
tural areas in Tunisia are the lower and central Medjerda River Valley and the
Cap Bon Peninsula in the North, and the coastal zones near Sousse and Sfax.
27.       Agriculture failed to keep pace with the rest of the economy in the
1960's due largely to unusually low rainfall, the departure of large numbers
of expatriate farmers, heavy emphasis on infrastructure investments, and parti-
cularly irrigation infrastructure, which yield benefits only in the very long
term, weaknesses in extension and other supporting services, difficulties
in resolving a variety of land tenure issues, and an unsuccessful attempt to
organize the entire agricultural sector into viable production cooperatives.
When the cooperative experiment was abandoned in late 1969, 4.5 million ha
were returned to private ownership. Despite major problems associated with
the return to private ownership, agricultural production in 1971 and 1972
increased by 27 and 30 percent respectively in constant prices over the two
preceding years. The average annual growth of agricultural production between
1970 and 1975 was 10.5 percent, although crop cycles, particularly in olives,
caused erratic yearly fluctuations. Nonetheless, excluding olive production,
Tunisia's trade balance in agricultural products was heavily in deficit in the
same period. In 1975, agricultural exports, excluding olive oil, represented
only about 10 percent of total farm output, while agricultural imports (mainly
cereals, dairy products, meat and sugar), having doubled in value between 1973
and 1974, represented an estimated 25 percent of total imports. Thus, one of
the major objectives of the Fifth Plan is the achievement of self-sufficiency
in food production, defined as meeting expected internal consumption needs in
grains, meat and milk (necessitating per annum increases of 6.7, 11 and 17.5
percent respectively) and attaining a balanced foreign trade in other agricul-
tural products. Reaching the objective of self-sufficiency in grains appears
feasible; reaching the projected level of milk and meat production seems less
likely.
28.       Rainfed agriculture in Tunisia is hampered by differences in climatic
conditions between Northern, Central and Southern Tunisia and, within each re-
gion, by wide fluctuations around the average rainfall. Only Northern Tunisia,
where average rainfall exceeds 350mm, grows a wide variety of rainfed crops,
in particular wheat and barley. Rainfed agriculture is unreliable even in
the North. Droughts, or floods, often depress yields; the mountainous parts
of the North, as well as soils in the plains, are not uniformly suitable for
agriculture. In Central Tunisia, where rainfall averages 200-400mm, rainfed
agriculture combines tree crops (mainly olives and almonds), marginal cereal
production and low density raising of sheep and goats. In the Southern half
of the country, where average rainfall is below 200mm, vegetables and date
palms are cultivated in several oases. Outside the oases, the main agricul-
tural activities are extensive grazing and olive production.
29.       The Ministry of Agriculture has overall responsibility for agricul-
tural planning and development, including water resource development. A large
number of autonomous and semi-autonomous agencies operate under the jurisdic-
tion of the Ministry. Some have responsibility for marketing, and in some
cases provision of extension and credit services, for specific products (olive



- 9 -
oil, grain, wine, livestock). Others are charged with the development, opera-
tion and management of large publicly financed irrigation perimeters such as
those to be established in connection with the loan proposed in this report.
Certain agricultural agencies provide specialized services, including in
particular the use of agricultural machinery and equipment. Finally, there
are several input-related agencies, mostly for seeds and fertilizer. The
Ministry of Agriculture is also responsible for the overall evaluation of
credit needs for the sector. Credit is provided through a variety of govern-
ment agencies as well as through the banking system, particularly the govern-
ment-controlled National Bank of Tunisia (BNT).
Irrigated Agriculture
30.       Regional differences in soil quality, rainfall, climate and terrain
account partly for the limited portion of Tunisia devoted to agricultural pro-
duction, but lack of water is a major constraint to wider and more intensive
production. Of the 5.3 million hectares considered cultivable, there are only
about 220,000 ha suitable for irrigation; 132,000 ha are presently equipped,
45,000 ha of which are in public irrigation areas. In 1962, the Government
initiated a ten-year Minimum Plan aimed at developing about 32,000 ha for
irrigated farming in the Medjerda River Valley. By the end of 1975, about
27,000 ha net had been equipped with the main irrigation and drainage facili-
ties under the Minimum Plan.
31.       Between 1962-72 about 40 percent of public investment in agriculture
was devoted to the construction of large hydraulic works, which nearly doubled
the irrigable area. It became clear toward the end of the 1960's, however,
that potable and industrial water needs were becoming increasingly important
and that a more rational strategy for the development of Tunisia's overall
water resources was necessary if all water needs were to be met in future. As
the bulk of Tunisia's water resources, as well as the majority of the popula-
tion, are in the north, the Government decided to prepare a Water Master Plan
for Northern Tunisia. At the Government's request, the Bank made a technical
assistance grant in 1969, and acted as Executing Agency for the study, which
was undertaken by Italconsult with assistance from several other consulting
firms.
32.       Concurrently with the Water Master Plan study, the Government carried
out studies to ascertain the results of the ten-year Minimum Plan for irriga-
tion development in the Medjerda Valley. The studies showed that not only
had construction targets not been met, but increasing production in the new
irrigation areas needed greater effort; improvements were needed in extension
services, access of farmers to credit and inputs, management, maintenance of
the irrigation and drainage works, and application of the relevant land reform
legislation. In 1971, following consultant recommendations that returns on
existing investments should be increased before major new works were executed,
the Government requested Bank assistance in resolution of these problems.
This resulted in the irrigation rehabilitation project (Loan 1068-TUN; December
31, 1974), which covers about 20,000 ha net in the lower Medjerda Valley and
5,000 ha net in Nebhana (near Sousse). The project provides for rehabilita-
tion of existing irrigation, drainage and road networks, construction of rural



- 10 -
infrastructure, supply of equipment and machinery, and on-farm development
through credit. On the whole, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily,
though two issues have caused difficulties. Execution of land reform actions
by the central government (not by the project authorities) has been delayed
due largely to the sensitivity of the early stages of application of legisla-
tive provisions that had previously been in abeyance. Nonetheless, under the
Fourth Plan about 70 percent of the planned area for application of land
reform in public irrigation areas was achieved. The Government's delay in
completing according to plans an agricultural credit policy study has delayed
disbursement of credit funds under the irrigation rehabilitation project.
While the limited access by small farmers to credit remains a difficulty,
major progress towards the resolution of credit issues was made in the context
of the second agricultural credit project (Loan 1340-TUN, December 17, 1976).
The Medjerda sub-project authority, OMVVM, (Office de la Mise en Valeur de la
Vallee de la Medjerda), which will also have major responsibility under the
loan proposed in this report, is performing well; the Nebhana sub-project
authority (OMIVAN), is developing somewhat slower than expected. The Govern-
ment is now preparing to execute a new series of major water development
projects during the Fifth Plan, including the first stage of works under
the Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
33.       Following several revisions, the final results of Italconsult's
study of the Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan were submitted to the Govern-
ment in June, 1974. The Plan represents the most appropriate alternative for
meeting the priority Government objectives of increasing agricultural produc-
tion and contributing to supplying Northern Tunisia's potable and industrial
water requirements. The project proposed in this report would implement the
first phase of the Plan. The specific objectives of the project would be to:
(i) contribute to supplying the Tunis, Cap Bon and subsequently Sousse areas
with sufficient potable and industrial water to meet expected requirements to
the year 2000; (ii) raise agricultural output in the central Medjerda Valley
and the Cap Bon peninsula by supplying irrigation, drainage and road infra-
structure and providing associated land reform and extension services; (iii)
safeguard production on existing citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area by
providing sufficient irrigation water; (iv) increase agricultural production
by providing a better quality and quantity of summer irrigation water in the
1962-1972 Minimum Plan area of the lower Medjerda Valley, (v) control Medjerda
River floods, which regularly inundate the lower Valley; and (vi) generate
hydroelectric power.
34.       The proposed project would include the construction of the Sidi Salem
dam and storage reservoir on the Medjerda River, with a 25 MW hydroelectric
power plant; a 126 kilometer interconnection canal conveying water from El
Aroussia (60 kilometers below the dam) to Tunis and the Cap Bon Peninsula new
irrigation, drainage and road infrastructure for some 10,600 ha, now mainly



- 11 -
dry-farmed, in the Testour/Medjez el Bab area of the central Medjerda Valley
and in the Cap Bon peninsula; and rehabilitation of about 6,000 ha of citrus
plantations in Cap Bon. The proposed project would include the relocation of
those sections of roads, railroads and potable water supply pipelines that
would be submerged by the storage reservoir. Consultants and training would
be provided to supplement available engineering services during construction,
to assist in hydrological, pollution, water development and policy studies,
and to support agricultural extension. The second phase of the Water Master
Plan, expected to be implemented in the 1980's, would involve the development
of the Ichkeul basin, including the construction of several small dams, a
canal to transmit potable water to Bizerte and Tunis, and irrigation infra-
structure development on a further 20,000 ha near Tunis.
35.       The Sidi Salem project will be a major undertaking for Tunisia,
and takes a prominent place in its Fifth Development Plan. The project
represents the culmination of Bank and other international assistance over
the past decade toward the overall development of Tunisia's limited water
resources. While the proposed loan is small in relation to total project
cost, the Bank's overall contribution would be substantial. It would assist
the Government in mobilizing other sources of finance, continue past efforts
at institution building by provision of consultants and training in associa-
tion with investment in irrigation development, lead to several years of
intensified discussions between the Government and the Bank on water resource
development and related policy issues on which collaborative work began during
project preparation, and reinforce links with institutions with which the Bank
has long-standing relations: the Medjerda development authority, OMVVM; the
national water company, SONEDE, the power company, STEG; and the national
railways enterprise, SNCFT.
36.       The proposed project was prepared with the assistance of consultants
and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and was appraised in January-February
1976. Negotiations were held in April, 1977. The Borrower was represented by
Mr. Zein Mestiri, Director of Foreign Cooperation, Ministry of Planning. A
delegation led by Mr. Claus Gurlitt participated in the negotiations for KfW.
A report entitled "Appraisal of the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project - Tunisia"
(Report No. 1215-TUN) dated May 5, 1977 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. A loan and project summary is attached as Annex III, and
a supplementary project data sheet is at Annex IV; a map of the project area
is included at the end of this report.
Cost Estimates
37.       The total project cost is estimated at about $386 million, including
physical and price contingencies and duties but excluding interest during con-
struction. The foreign exchange component is estimated at $168 million or 44
percent of the total project cost; the local cost would amount to $218 million.
Overall contingencies amount to $98 million million or about 34 percent of the
total cost. The cost estimates for the dam and associated works are based on
detailed engineering studies and contracts already awarded; for the irrigation
development component on preliminary consultants' designs; and for the canal,
on consultants' studies and estimates by engineers from the People's Republic
of China.



- 12 -
Financing Plan
38.       The proposed Bank loan of $42 million would finance the foreign ex-
change cost of the substructure of the railway relocation, as well as of the
road and potable water pipeline relocations, required by the construction of
the Sidi Salem Dam; the Testour/Medjez el Bab irrigation infrastructure; the
rehabilitation of the Cap Bon citrus plantations; and consultants, studies and
training for the staff of OMVVM, the main executing agency for agricultural
development, the Directorate of Major Hydraulic Works (DGTH), the executing
agency for the major civil works in the Ministry of Public Works, and DEGTH,
the directorate in charge of water studies, and operation and maintenance of
major hydraulic works, in the Ministry of Agriculture.
39.       Several Governments and other agencies would participate with the
Bank in financing the project. The Governments of Iran and of the Peoples'
Republic of China have lent the Government of Tunisia the ecuivalent of $15
and $54 million respectively, to assist in financing the Sidi Salem Dam and
the Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal; these loans are already effective. A Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) loan equivalent to about $28 million is expected to
cover most of the foreign exchange cost of civil works and hydro-mechanical
equipment for the Sidi Salem Dam and civil works for the associated power
plant. Suppliers credits would finance the hydro-electrical equipment for
the power plant. The Tunisian Government has informed the Bank of the agree-
ment in principle of Arab and OPEC sources to participate in financing the
project; these sources would finance at least the foreign exchange cost of
the new Cap Bon irrigation perimeter, estimated at $19.5 million, leaving a
possible foreign exchange gap of $4 million in the project financing plan.
While even the local cost of the project will place a considerable burden
on the government, the country's financial position (see para 17), and the
priority attached by the Government to the project, indicate that the project
should not face financial difficulties. Aside from equipment and machinery
for on-farm development by OMVVM financed by the Bank, the project's credit
and on-farm development requirements would be financed by the Government;
during negotiations assurances were received that the medium and short term
credit requirements for the project would be provided on terms acceptable to
the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
40.       The Bank has cooperated closely with KfW on the project for an ex-
tended period of time, and expects to conclude a lenders' agreement with KfW
for the project following the negotiation of the KfW loan. Standard cross
effectiveness and cross default clauses with the KfW loan have been included
in the Bank's draft Loan Agreement (Sections 6.01(d), 5.01(g)). No direct
contacts have been established, or are expected, between the People's Republic
of China and the Bank in connection with the project. The inability of the
Government to effect withdrawals under either the Iranian or the Chinese
loan and the absence of other satisfactory arrangements to ensure payment of
project expenditures either was to finance, would be an event of default under
the Bank loan (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(h)). The Tunisian Govern-
ment intends to organize a meeting of the lenders participating in financing
the Sidi Salem Dam and associated works in early July on the occasion of the
planned development conference (see para 25).



- 13 -
Project Execution
41.       Responsibility for the construction, operation and maintenance of
the project works would rest with a large number of Government agencies and
enterprises. With the agreement of the Bank and KfW, and to prevent the loss
of one construction year, the Government awarded the contract for the dam and
associated works to a Yugoslav enterprise in March 1977. The construction of
the dam, the canal and other major civil works would be the responsibility
of the Directorate of Large Hydraulic Works (DGTH) of the Ministry of Public
Works; DGTH would also relocate the highways and provide the sub-structure for
the relocated railway line. The national railways company, SNCFT, would under-
take the necessary railway rehabilitation and super-structure construction.
Water supply pipe relocation and supply of potable and industrial water would
be the responsibility of the national water supply company, SONEDE. The in-
stallation of electrical equipment in the power plant in the Sidi Salem dam,
construction of transmission lines, and their operation and maintenance would
be the responsibility of the national power company, STEG. The construction,
operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage network in the Testour/
Medjez and Cap Bon areas would be the responsibility of OMVVM. It would also
undertake agricultural development and provide extension and related services.
The operation and maintenance of the dam and the interconnection canal would
be ensured by the Directorate of Studies and Large Hydraulic Works (DEGTH) of
the Ministry of Agriculture, which would also be responsible for execution of
the water studies.
42.       The Bank has long been associated with the executing agencies, which
have the capacity and experience to carry out and operate the project works.
The engineering staff of the two most important project authorities, DGTH and
OMVVM, would, however, be reinforced. Consultants to support DGTH and OMVVM
in final design, preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids and
supervision of construction would be retained on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05, draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.02). A team of 50 technicians who worked on construction of the
recently completed KfW-financed Bou Heurtma dam is expected to be assigned to
Sidi Salem dam construction. OMVVMs directorate for the Cap Bon area would
be strengthened, and an additional regional directorate for Testour/Medjez
would be established within OMVVM (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09).
The extension staff of OMVVM would be strengthened to meet the needs of the
project (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09). OMVVM would recruit special-
ists to support its engineering:, irrigation and extension staff, and to carry
out in-service training; it would also select staff members to be sent abroad
for courses financed by the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08). The
operation and maintenance staff of DEGTH would be strengthened to meet project
needs (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.09), and DEGTH would recruit consultants
acceptable to the Bank for the hydrological, pollution, water development and
policy studies (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.13(a)).
43.       The establishment of a coordination committee for project execution,
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and composed of representa-
tives of all Government agencies concerned, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed Bank loan. The appointment of a project manager by SNCFT



- 14 -
would be a further condition of effectiveness. Agreements between the Govern-
ment and the autonomous agencies responsible for execution of individual proj-
ect components would be concluded before loan effectiveness. The Government
would also submit an acceptable construction calendar and satisfactory plans,
designs and technical specifications for the Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal to the
Bank before loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.06, 6.01).
This information is now being prepared by Chinese engineers in Peking following
an extended field mission in Tunisia; the Chinese and Tunisian authorities
have agreed that the canal should be constructed by a Tunisian national con-
struction enterprise, with assistance from Chinese technical personnel. In
addition to the Bank's normal arrangements for inspection of construction,
OMVVM and the other agencies would submit, through periodic reports, the
information necessary for the Bank to measure project implementation against
the proposed schedule, and project performance against project benefits fore-
seen during appraisal. While this information would not be as detailed in
the case of the canal as for the other components, these arrangements would
provide the Bank adequate supervision information and authority in regard not
merely to those components financed by the Bank, but over the totality of the
project.
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       Each co-financier would establish the procurement rules to be fol-
lowed in respect of those contracts that it finances. The civil works and
equipment required for the project are expected to be grouped into 28 con-
tracts totalling about $245 million. The proposed Bank loan would be expected
to finance part of 15 civil works contracts, worth some $57 million, of which
12 with an estimated total cost of $56 million, would be tendered on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. As noted above (para. 41) the contract for the Sidi Salem Dam
has been let. The other 3 contracts, which are small and not suitable for
packaging, would be tendered locally according to normal Government competi-
tive bidding procedures which are considered satisfactory; these contracts
would not exceed $2 million as a whole. Small equipment items such as motor-
cycles and survey equipment would also be purchased through normal Government
competitive bidding procedures; the total for all such items would not exceed
$100,000 (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. B). A 15 percent preference
margin, or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equipment.
45.       Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would be made for:   (i)
55 percent of expenditures (representing 100 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange component) on civil works for the railroad substructure and 50 per-
cent of expenditures on civil works (representing 100 percent of the estimated
foreign exchange component) for the road and potable water supply pipe reloca-
tion, for the Testour/Medjez el Bab subproject, and for the rehabilitation of
the Cap Bon citrus plantations; (ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
of imported equipment and materials or 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of
locally produced equipment and materials, for the Testour/Medjez El Bab and
citrus plantation subprojects; and (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures



- 15 -
on consultant services and training under those components financed by the
Bank. The Bank loan would finance about $12.5 million in expenditures on the
railway relocation under the already concluded contract for the Sidi Salem Dam.
Disbursements for the rehabilitation of citrus plantations would be conditioned
on commencement of construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal. Retroactive
financing of a maximum of $200,000 in expenditures after January 1, 1976 on
consultant services for the railway relocation and the Testour/Medjez el Bab
subproject is recommended (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4). Bank
loan disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.
Water Development Studies and Environmental Impact
46.       Under the project the Government would update existing studies or
undertake new studies on a number of major water development, water policy,
and environmental impact issues. In carrying out an analysis of the water
resources of the Medjerda Basin, the Government would update existing hydro-
logical data, taking into account developments upstream and downstream from
the Sidi Salem Dam; this work is expected to involve updating and extending
the mathematical model which formed the basis of the Northern Tunisia Water
Master Plan. The Government would carry out a study on the operation of
the Sidi Salem Dam, and, by December 31, 1980, establish operating rules
for the Dam acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.13 (b)).
The studies program would also include an examination of the pollution factors
which could influence the quality of the waters in the Sidi Salem Reservoir;
by the end of 1980 the Government would establish a program acceptable to the
Bank to monitor pertinent Medjerda water quality parameters (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.13 (d)). An increase in the elevation of water in the Sidi
Salem Reservoir could have a damaging effect on water quality by increasing
its salinity; before deciding to increase the level from 105 to 110 meters,
the Government would submit a report to the Bank and give the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to comment on it (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.13 (e)).
In reviewing irrigation infrastructure cost recovery policy, the Government
would exchange views with the Bank on, and determine the allocation of project
costs among the power company, STEG, the water company, SONEDE, and the irriga-
tion areas; this determination would serve as the basis for recovery charges
to be levied on STEG and SONEDE (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.03, 3.13(c),
and 4.05).
47.       The Sidi Salem Dam and Reservoir will cover a total area of about
6,000 ha, including a part of the village of Oued Zarga with a population of
3,500 inhabitants. The new location for this village was officially decreed
in May 1976; assurances were received during negotiations that the village
population would be adequately rehoused or otherwise adequately compensated
for any loss incurred as a result of the relocation (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.11(b)). Agreement was reached with Government on these plans and on
an implementation schedule, in January 1977.   Satisfactory arrangements would
be made by DEGTH for annual inspection of the dam and its appurtenant struc-
tures to determine actual or potential defects; DEGTH would take any remedial
action required, and would forward a copy of each inspection report to the
Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04(c)). The project area is free of all



- 16 -
environmental and health hazards such as bilharzia and malaria. While rela-
tively small, a portion of the Medjerda River waters arises in Algeria. The
Tunisian Government has informed the Algerian Government of its intention to
implement the project; water supply and pollution problems are being discussed
bilaterally.
Land Tenure and Cost Recovery
48.       Under the project the two new irrigation areas, Testour/Medjez el
Bab and Cap Bon, would become public irrigation perimeters, and thus subject
to the 1963 and 1971 Tunisian agrarian reform and land consolidation legisla-
tion applicable in such areas (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02 (c)). Land
consolidation would not be needed in either the Cap Bon citrus plantation area,
where the existing land tenure (average holding 3 ha) is satisfactory, or on
State Farms and Farmers' Cooperatives, which are expected to play an important
role in introducing new crops and production techniques. Of the 16,600 hect-
ares that would benefit directly from the project, 84 percent are privately
owned and 16 percent are in State Farms and Farmers Cooperatives managed by
the Office for State Land Management of the Ministry of Agriculture. In exist-
ing public irrigation areas in northern Tunisia, the holding ceiling is 64 ha
in the Badrouna and Lakhmess perimeters in the upper Medjerda Valley, and 50
ha in the lower Medjerda Valley. Under the proposed project, in the Testour/
Medjez perimeter in the central Medjerda Valley, the ceiling would be set no
higher than 15 ha for land categories suitable for very intensive crops and 50
hectares for other categories of land; in the new Cap Bon perimeter the ceiling
would be set so as to encourage the optimum use of available irrigation water
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(c)). The vast majority of beneficiaries is
expected to be small/medium farmers owning farms of 10 ha or less; they repre-
sent 89 percent of holdings in Testour/Medjez and 96 percent in Cap Bon. The
necessary land reform measures in the new irrigation areas would be carried
out on the basis of a calendar and plan of action acceptable to the Bank
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(d)). This calendar and plan of action
were worked out during negotiations.
49.       During negotiations, it was agreed that volumetric water charges at
a rate of at least D 6 per 1,000 cubic meter in the new subproject irrigation
areas, and at least D 12 per 1,000 cubic meters in the citrus plantation
area would be applied; these charges would approximately cover operation and
maintenance costs. They would be adjusted, in agreement with the Bank, at
not more than three-year intervals (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
Betterment taxes, or investment contributions, as the Tunisians use the term,
of at least D 100 per hectare, would also be collected (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02(c)). The Government agreed to carry out an irrigation infra-
structure cost recovery policy study, and to submit its recommendations to the
Bank, by December 31, 1978, for the introduction of a system of investment
contributions based on the repayment capacity of farmers, and permitting
the maximum possible recovery of project investments (draft Loan Agreement,
Sections 4.02(a) and (b)). The policy study should be completed in time to be
taken into account in determining the final level of the betterment taxes to
be applied. The minimum water charges and betterment taxes agreed by the
Government would permit the recovery of 20 percent of project costs allocated
to irrigation; this is equivalent to 30 percent of project rent, defined as



- 17 -
the surplus of incremental farm income resulting from the project above that
required to assure an adequate incentive to farmers to participate in the
project. If, as a result of the policy study and periodic water charge in-
creases, water charges and investment contributions rise to the level necessary
to tax away the total project rent accruing to the largest farms, as projected
in the Bank's farm models, 52 percent of project costs allocated to irrigation,
equal to 77 percent of project rent, would be recovered.
Benefits and Risks
50.       The proposed project would be of fundamental importance in imple-
menting Tunisia's overall water development strategy. The benefits of the
water to be made available as a result of the project include increased
agricultural output; higher incomes and employment, for both family and hired
labor; improvement in Tunisia's balance of payments; increased supply of
potable and industrial water to the major urban areas of Northern Tunisia;
and an increased supply of electrical energy. The economic return on all
project components, excluding power, is about 11 percent over a 50 year
project life.
51.       The direct economic benefits of the irrigation components of the
project would be derived from increased cropping intensity, increases in
yields of crops and livestock (including milk), and crop diversification with
the introduction of fodder, corn and sugar beet. Only minor changes could be
expected in cropping patterns and yields without the project. An additional
benefit would be increased cropping intensity and higher output of summer
crops on some 32,000 ha in the lower Medjerda Valley, developed under the
Minimum Plan, resulting from an increase in water availability and a decrease
in irrigation water salinity. By increasing agricultural output and creating
jobs the project would have an important impact on the income of poor farmers
in the three zones. By 1990, as a result of the project, the average per
capita income of the farming population, expressed in constant 1976 prices,
would increase from D 81 to D 320 in the new Cap Bon irrigation perimeter,
from D 125 to D 614 in Testour/Medjez, and from D 220 to D 465 in the Cap Bon
citrus plantation area; per capita GDP in 1976 prices is estimated at about
D 680 in 1990. The main beneficiaries of the project would be 8,000 farm
families representing some 48,000 people: 2,600 families in the Testour and
Cap Bon subproject areas, mostly operating farms of less than 10 ha, who would
also benefit indirectly from land reform and land consolidation; 1,650 families
with average holdings of 3 ha in the Cap Bon citrus plantation area; and 3,800
farm families in the lower Medjerda Valley. Of these 8,000 farm families,
nearly half fall in the target.group population. The project is also expected
to create full time agricultural employment for some 5,700 workers, mostly on
State farms and production cooperatives in the new Testour/Medjez El Bab and
Cap Bon irrigation areas. Balance of payments benefits are expected from
increased exports of citrus and off-season fruits and vegetables and reduced
imports, mostly of food grains, sugar, milk and meat.    No marketing problems
are foreseen, either domestic or foreign. The urban populations around Tunis,
Cap Bon and Sousse would benefit from an increased potable and industrial
water supply, which, together with other identified sources, would assure
requirements to the year 2000. Important, although unquantified, benefits
of the project would derive from greater flood control in the Medjerda Valley.



- 18 -
52.       The major risks of the project lie in the financing arrangements arid
in the land reform and cost recovery program. The project would be the first
in which both Tunisia and the Bank are associated with the People's Republic
of China. The large number of cofinanciers and executing agencies requires
particularly close coordination, under the leadership of the Ministry of
Planning. On the basis of experience in project preparation and with the
project coordinating committee to be established, the Government should have
the ability to ensure the necessary coordination.
53.       Land reform is a particularly sensitive subject in Tunisia as a
result of the turbulent experience with agricultural cooperatives in the late
1960's; following the return of cooperative lands to private ownership, the
Government was extremely reluctant, for several years, to take the lead in
resolving a variety of land reform issues, including those that affect the
returns on public irrigation investments. Under the irrigation rehabilita-
tion project, detailed arrangements were made for the necessary land reform
action (see para. 32); while there have been some problems in application of
the cost recovery arrangements, it is too early to tell whether major diffi-
culties will arise. Because of differences in the existing tenure structure
in the project zones, the land reform measures required for the Sidi Salem
project will, in certain respects, be less sensitive than those for the irriga-
tion rehabilitation project.    Finally, while the calendar for execution of the
land reform program and the cost recovery policy study has been established
with a view to allowing sufficient time for the land reform and investment con-
tribution measures under the proposed project to take the results of the study
into account, unforeseen delays could arise in executing the policy study or
in carrying out its recommendations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Office de la Mise
en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda et des Perimetres Publics Irrigues, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the pro-
posed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
agreements conform to the normal pattern of loans for irrigation development
projects.  Features of the loan of particular interest are mentioned in para-
graphs 39 through 49 of this report. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex IV. The following would be special conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed loan: (a) conclusion and ratification of the
Project Agreement; (b) conclusion and ratification of agreements concerning
the project between the Government and STEG, SNCFT, and SONEDE; (c) estab-
lishment of the project coordination committee; (d) appointment of a project
manager by SNCFT; (e) submission to the Bank of a construction calendar,
and plans, designs and specifications, all acceptable to the Bank, for the
Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal; and (f) fulfillment of disbursement conditions of
the KfW loan. Disbursement of Bank funds for the Cap Bon citrus plantation
component would be conditioned on the beginning of construction of the
Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal.



- 19 -
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 12, 1977






W
Is              It- 1~   t4-4 
if. ~ ~ ~ ~ O    -2::Is
-W   o  -  c   4 4 0 a     o       .    ..   .4         0 0 0 00          0.       .   0 0
0             00          C                           00  4 04          0.4.
Z   *       .  -*0                                       4  .0W      4 - 0              P
-  mmq                                        4.*-  -                        -  0  *~~~-M
-  s". 
*  S                                                                                    p~~~f o":%tItI
Z-   m 
7  'wm
a  m                       -4-.                 S~40 -.t li
ma                                      0                O , 
C                                                                      I~~~Is a - . .'tI  ~t I   S:ct c
OSt.  P                d d~~~~~~~~~  41414                                           p -  If
OPLi  S    NtJ~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~tJ  '4-JNI'4J  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I~~~I  ~~~~It;- 
Vt5    I  I Co  .c *.- . .  c W   c . I  t   tCo It It  000V  000 0t   It It   It   It  It .  000
Cm a                                                                                        SW
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ML      00)I        .                                 S3C mI
ct' ~~~~~~~~~~  .-..                         PJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~OI  Is  a  -j  a
t..*  Si' .0   4  00  ceO-C~ ~~~ s- n m*  e   .1  -l  00c I0  0I   00 0 *o . .       oo
Wc   a R m.                          .  ..a.    ..   4.Z.                          . 
.win  C.- SO   yt  en  OCtACO  04  p  000  o.4~-w   -  c171 a -e  000  09-  0  0  a  0-cW
a. m  op  e..a.-m  C  em  0  ~~~~~~~~~~~           ~ ~~~~CZ'  .O-4 @Iw lo   aw "  p--a-s
a.  a           %A4e~~~~~~~~~~~~w                a  S a s-I
mu1 ma.          Z0&2m mo
Z.          O W                 a   Z       IWS     -  -a 
SC  OS    %4%                                                    CI 'CI CI  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z v I  s  2  7f
PO  P-mo  0  cc  psoce  ..o  -  000  00~~~~~~~C  00  Icc  - s- .   D..05%c 000   00  a  c 0  o  * -   a   l 0;e  *  9"00..  I'
me  *m  -      4  4.   ...   ....                            .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ~ I-  .  Z  n I4w - 
mm.  - SO  -  0c  400   CO  0  400~~~~~s-  I- -  -0  W. -  PO  00oI W-W0  - a et . Fe  ep-n.
*z  p     0  c..aI  l   e  em   .4-  -.  .       a    mO..  0.Is4D Z  M  I   4  0&a   - p- f -a.s
m~~~~~  so.  -  ~~~~~~~~ZZ  --  I                 9.-CI       ..O-0IMIsa  -    Z   -a  
Zm     I m   -  cc  4w  .    4   0      0               0  * W    U o   a c  o   .  .6   a  0000jW
=0  LO               C~a             0     :          I  0-



A$= XI
Page 2 of 4 pages
unless otherwies noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 end for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
a Due to soigration population growth rate In lower than the rate of natural increas..
a. Greece hes been selected as am objective country, on the basis of the site of its population, mediterranean grographical situation and its economy,
which presents Bov similarity with Tumnisias with respect to national resources, market sloe, agricultural cod services activitie..
TUNISIA     1960    Ia  1956;     /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to total l.abr force;        /c   1963;    /d   1962, including rural hospitala.
1970    /a   1956-66;    lb   1966;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         /d  Covering 4.5 million hectares
of private l7and, excluding 0.8 million hectares in public ownership, end 2.1 million hectareo of colIlective land;         IsPrersnel
in government services only;      If  Govermnent hospital establishments only;       /&  1964-66;     /h  Registered only.
MOST REMEN ESTItATE:          1966-75;    /b   Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 end bv.r to total labor force;        /c  Including dentists;
~5   1972;    /.  Personnel in government services only;       I/f  Government hospital establishetents;    IA   1969-71 average.
JORDAN      1970    /a  East Bank only;   .Lkb Ratio of population under 15 aod 65 sod over to total labor force;          /c  1964-66;     /d  1966;     Is  Including
SHIJA schools.
IRAQ        1970    /   Ratio of Population unsder 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;       /b   1964-66.
GREECE      1970    I   Due to anigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural increase;          lb  1967.
R12, May 5, 1977
DZFIMIT1mS 0? SOCIAL II5ICATOA
Land Are. (thou k.2)                                                                   Population por eunice ser.on - Population diided by number of practicing
Total1  T.isI surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                       sale and f-.1. graduate ou       " trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agi.-Most r-conc .atimat  of agricultural area used temporarily or peesa-            wsuiliary personael with training or exponents.
nestly for crops, pastures,   srket & kitchen ga.rdoea or cc lie fall-,.             Ppoulation per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public sod priveta general and apcialised hospital and
GNP opr capita (U1$) - GNP par capita .stimatas at currec marbet prices,                 rehabilitation, centers; seludes nursing hones and establisheasta for
cslculated by.same coversion inthod as world Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);               custodial end prevetive cars.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                            Per ..pita supply of calorisa Cl sf reouiraments) - Copmptd frns energy
.q.iva1e.t Of met food *sppli.. availble is c;vatrsy per capita per day;
Populattion sd vit.l statistic!-                                                         available supplies cmaprise domestic production, imports le.. exports, and
Popul.ttoa fsid-y,ar million)   As of July firer:  if not availabla, averag.             changes in stock; mat NSupples sec-lde animal feed, .eeds, quantities used
of tw sod-year estimates; 11460, 1970 sod 1975 data,                                   in food p-oce-ssiog sod losses in distribution; requiromenta were estimated
by PAO based on physiological needs for onmI activity and health consid-
Population density - par es4ar be - Mid-year pepulation per sqare kilmeater              ering environmetal temperature, body weights, sge sod sex distributions of
(100 h..tares) of tots1 are.                                                           populatim, sod al1mciog 101 forvests at ho-sahold leve.
Pop.lation denity - par asuar   be Of eric. loand - Computed as above for              Per .aPita suPply of Rrti       f     Ir  a day) - Protein content of per capita
egricultural land only.                                           ne~~~~~~~~.t Supply of food pe  a;mtspply of food is defined sa abova; require-
ma.ts for all countrias eatabliahed by USIDA Econmic Raaearch Services
Vital statistics                                                                          provids for a nininse  allowanca of 60 gross, of total protein per day, end
Crude bitbh rst. par ths,aad.avrage - Aonwl live births per thousand of                   20 grams of anial and Falsa proteim, of which 10 grim sh-Ild be animal
nid-y.ar populaton   ten-yer arthmetic avrages -di's in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these atandrda ar   lowr than thus   of 75 grams of total proatei
sod fie-yea   aeraga ending in 1975 for nat recent estimate,                            sod 23 grins of animal protein as en average for the world, proposed byF FAO
Crude death rate Per thousmand. average - Aenual deaths per thousand of mdya              in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five.            Per capita prot.i. supply from animal end nules - Protein supply of food
year vrsg, eni-i 17          o     mt recant estimate,                                  derived frn  animals and pulses in gross per day.
Infat mrtaityrater f/hou) - Annul deathe of infants under ona year of sga          Death rata f/thou) sgees 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live biths                                                                years, to childre  in this age group; suggested . asns indictor Of
Life -co-t-acy at birth fyrs) - Average number of years of life reaining at              malnutrition.
birth; usualy five-year everage   ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing coutries.                                                                        Eduction
Gross r-production rate - Averege number of live daughters a woman will bear            Adiustad enrollment -atio - primryuschool - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her normal r-productivs psriod if she eeperiaacas presen.t age-specifIc             centag  of priary achol-aga pouaione; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility ratas; musully five-yesr averages ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1975              but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for devaloping coutries.                                                               universal education, anrolowot may emceed 100% sia eon pupils are below
P-rletioo xroth race ('1) - total - Compounad annua groth rtes. of mid-year               or shov. the official school ag..
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                          Adiusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as babov; secondary
population xoooth rate CiX) - urban - Computed Ilk. growth rate of total                  education requires at leas.t fou  years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban are" may affect comparbility of              provides genera, vocational or teacher training iwatructions, for pupils
data among countres                                                                     of 12 to 17 yearts Of age; correspondence course  are gnemrlly secluded.
irban population Cliof'total) - Ratio of urban to total population ; different          years of schooling provided ffiret And ascend levels) - Total years Of
dafinitions of urban ares may effact comparability of dat.a mene .-,tries.              echooling; at secood.ry lavwl,  ecetional instrotion may be partially or
completely excluded.
Ass structure foprcant) - Children (0-14 yer)     -oking-age (15-64yer)                Vocational enrollment CX of secondary) - Vucatimnal institutions includ.
and retired (6) yeats end ove) as percntages of mid-year population.                    teohoica1, indutri.1 or other programs which operate independently or as
AA. dependency ratio - Ratio of populsaton under 15 end 65 and ovr to those               d.prar.tmet of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                Adult literacy rtet ('I) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as par-
iconomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to               centage of total adult population aged 15 years andovr
,he labor force in age group of 15-64 years
Fomily plnaning - scoePtore (c,ml.ttva . thou) - Cusuletv- nuber Of acceptors           Howsing
of birth-cotrol devices under aupices of national fomily planning Program             persona per room (urben) - Average number of p-ersn  per ron in occupied
oi.c. inception.                                                                        conventional dwellings in urban erea.s; dwellings seclude non-pemenent
Ponily Pla-nnin  - users Cl of married woen    prcentaes. of married wome. of             structure  and unoccpied Pocts.
child-bearlog age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to ell married         occupied dwellings without pined water CL) - 0c-pi.d covetional deellisg.
wcnin same sge group.                                                                in urban ed rural era.. without inside or outside piped e-ter facilities
as percentage of all ucrepied dwellings.
inoloymnot                                                                              Atccess to electricity Cl of all dwellioga) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economticaly active parsons, including aemad               electricity in living quarters as Percent of total dwellings is urban and
fores and unamployed but excluding housewives, students, em. ; definitions             rural .ara..
in -arious coutri.s are not comprarble.                                              Rural dwelin    comnctad to electricity C)-Computed as above for rur-I
Labor forc  In agriculture Cl) - Agricultural labor force (is fanning, forestry,          dwellings only.
hu-ting sod fishing) .8 percentage of total lebor force.
Unemployed (X of labor force)  U- Ooployed are usually defined es persone who          Consumption
ore able and willing to take   job, nut Of a job on a given dsy, reimed nut          Radio receivera (per thou pop) - All types of receivrs For radio broadcasts
of s Job, and see king work for a specified minimum, period not aeceedieg one           to general1 public par thousand of population; sexcludes unlicensed recivrer
wek; may not be comparable between coutries due to different definitions               is countries and in years when registration of r.dis sets wa in effect;
of uoemployed snd source of dota, e.g., osployment Office etetiatice, sample           dsts for recent years may not he comparble since most countries abolished
-orvye, conpuleory ucoeploymant iasurance.                                              licensing.
.sne    cre font thou cop) - Passenger corn comprise ector car  seating
incom  distribution - Percentage of privat  incame (both in cash and kind)               lees than eight persons; secludes ambulamcsa, hearses ad nilitary
recived by richest 51, richest 201, poorest 201, and poorest 401 of homes-             vehicle..
holds.                                                                                Electricity (kwh/yr par cap) - Annu  al osomptian, of industrial, cril
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Di.tribotion of land ownership - Percentages of lend  -and by wealIthiest 101            based on production data, without ell-sence for l1sses in grids hot allo--
sod poorest 107. of land ow-rer                                                        ing for imports and   mporta Of el1ctricity.
Newsprint (kg/Tr par cap) - Per capita annual consmeption, in kllogr-
He.1th and Nutrition                                                                      estimated from domestic production plus net imports Of newprint.
Population par physician - Population divided_by numer of practicing



ANNI 
Page 3 of 4 pages
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC DEVEL.OFMENT DATA GREET
Actual                   Est.               Projected I/              1965-       1970-       17
1965        1970        1975       T9I76        1977       1978       1981       1970        1975        19g1         1976
Dis-ra Millions at Cons.tant 1972 Prices                       Ac-rage Annual Growth Rate       Shots of GDP
A.    RATIONAL ACCOUN1TS
Gross Dossetin Prodnot                                 65h         824       l,2g6       1,444       1,527      1,655      2,084        4.7         9.3         7.6         100.5
Crabs from Teros of Trads                               -6          -2          53          39          36         36         60         ...2.9
Cross Domestic Incom                                   650         822       1,339       1,483       1,536      1,691      2,144        4.8        10.3         7.6         152.9
Imports (C and FSF)                                    179         221         384         409         433        467        573       4.3         11.7         7.0          27.3
Enports (C and NCS) (Import capanciy)                  105         183         333         339         369        361        468       11.7        12.7         9.3          22.5
Resou.rce Gap                                           74          38          51          70          64         70         75         ...3.6
Coo-nption                                             549         696       1,061       1,191       1,280      1,393      1,759        4.9         8.8         8.1          84.4
Ic-etsmat                                              162         164         330         362         346        366       430        0.2         15.0         3.5          20.6
Domes.tic Saciogs                                       88         126         278         202         283        296        385        7.4        17.1         5.7          10.5
National Savings                                        67         104         274         280         268        276        347        9.2        21.4         4.4          16.7
CDP at c.rrect prices CUSS illlions)                 1,004       1,444       4,324       4,782       5,456      6,359      9,099        7.5        25.0        15.7
B.   SECTOR OUTPUT                                                      Share in CDP at Constant 1972 Prices in Percect                     Acerase Annual iCcuth Eato
Agriculture                                             22.1        20.4        21.0        71.5        19.4       19.2       17.7       -         10.3         3.5
Iodostry                                                22.8        24.9        25.4        25.2        26.6       27.4       30.3      6.3        10.1        11.6
ServI.es                                                55.1        54.7        53.6        53.3        54.0       53.4       52.1      5.8        12.3         7.1
C.   MREICHANDISE T11ADE                                                            Millions of US Do11sra                                  Anor.ge A..coal Growth Rote
Enport.
011cc Oil                                               26          17          78          82          58         60         70       -9.0        36.0        -3.2
Crude Pet-Ileu                                          -           45         359         296         361        435        294                   5 2.0         -
Refined Petroleo.                                       -            5          15          16          16         19        266         .         25.0        75. 0
Phoophate Rock                                          22          24         110          75          58         64        151        1.7        37.0         6.1
Phosphstc Dorlc--o                                      18          17          80          92         139        159       1,37       -1.2        36.0        36.0
Agriccltorol Products                                    32         40          92          85          95        III        180        4.6        18.1        16.2
T-tcl-n                                                  2           2          53   .      90         105        141        354         -         93.0        32.0
Other,Mo-foccred Goods                                   21         38          67          70          96        118        184       12.6        12.0        21.0
Total Goods                                             121        188         8.59        806         928      1,107      1,886        9.2        35.5        18.5
Soc Factor Soc-i...                                     68          67         497         519         638        742      1.129       -0.4        49.0        16.0
Total ixports.                                   189         255       1,356       1,325       1,566      1,849     3,015        6.2        4S.0         17.9
Imports (cif)
poodstoffs                                              34          80         225         188         225        307        503       18.7        23.0        22.0
Other Gonsume   Goods                                   42          41         218         217         262        309        481       -0.5        40.0        17.3
oErgy                                                    11         13         140         039         155        167        118        3.4        60.0        -3.3
l.ctrndiste Goode                                      88         113         411         410         489        585        980        5.1        29.5        19.0
CapItal Goodo                                           77          73         430         489         515        586        847       -1.1        43.0        11.6
Total Goods                                             252        320       1,424       1,443       1,646      1,954      2,930        4.9        35.0        15.2
Other NPO                                               68          61         141         158         190        222        245       -2.2        18.2        16.9
Total Goods and RFS                                    320         381       1,565       1,601       1,836      2,176      3,275        3.6        32.5        15.4
0.    PRICEG                                                                             1972   100                                         Average A-1a Crowth Sate
f.oprt price indeo                                      75.5        89.7       194.9       189.6       201.8      21 -il9.8  276.6      3.5        16.8         7.9
Gapoct price indec                                      85.8        90.7       164.1       167.9       182.0      200.0      245.2      1.1        12.6         7.9
Terms of tradn iodec                                     88.0       98.9       118.8       112.9       110.9      109.9      112.8      2.4         3.7          -
GDP deflator                                             70.7       92.0       135.2       142.0       153.4      164.3      203.9      5.4         8.0         7.3
Average noehogo rate (TO pec 5)                           0.525       0.525       0.402      0.429       0.429      0.429      0.429     -          5.5          -
i.   PUBLIC FINANCE                                     Go percec.t of GDP at Current Pcices                 P.  GETAIL ON COO'T             ic Percent of Total
1965     1970    1975     1976                       SECTOR 1INVESTMIENT          1968-71      1972-75
Curret R-ee-u                                         19.6     21.8     24.4    22.7
Currant topendinuro                                   15.0     17.9     18.0    18.0                       Gocial sectsrs                 18.6         15.6
Corret Gurplos (C-tc-l Gc-'t)                          4.6      3.9      6.4     4.8                       Agoicoltore                    23.8         13.0
Ocher Coot Sector OScings                              0.9     -0.5      0.0     0.3                       Transport aud
Cooni.lcitlo                  12.2         15.5
Ge,nc,' Gon' t lnc-t,n                                 7.5      3.9      4.0     4.6                        Ifstutr                       16.0         16.4
Total G_c't Iom_rs-t                                  11.7      8.1      8.2     8.7                       Cthno 2/                       29.4         395.
Total                         100.0        100.0
C.    DETAIL ON GOENET EXPEINDITUER                              Sn Perce..t of Total
(CENTRAL COT                                          1965     1970     195      97                        Pnaco
Edocati-n                                             25.7     32.-1    22.3    26.2                       PsiblEc Sector SacLngo         29.9         59.2
Ocher Social GSr-i..s                                 15.5     16.7     11.1    13.1                       Othar Fisn-iog                 15.5         20.8
Agr iculIturo                                          5.0      3.4      5.4      7.2                       Do-etic Borr-wisg (set)        1.8         -2.1
Other Econom.ic Serices                               17.7     17.7     16.2    14.5                       Pornips Borrosaiog (not)       52.8         22.1
Adnicntratli- sod Defence                             36.1     350.1    45.0    38.9                       Total FinacncSg               100.0        100.0
180.0    180.0   100.0    100.0
H.  lABOR POECE    thousands)    1972         1976
igrcultoce j                760          764
Industry                     300          44 0
Services                     345          413
Unemployed                    279          264
1,684        1,881
j/  Projected by Wocid Rank Staff                                                                                                       ERSERA CP II
2/  Rodgat                                                                                                                             Ply 1977
3/   I-codes transfers to poblic noterpris-
4/ Rasldoal



ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TUNISIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Amounts in millions of US dollars) I/
Actual                                  Est.                         Proiected 2/
1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       198L
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                           316        408         567        714      1,254      1,356      1,325      1,566      1,849      2,138      2,546     3,015
Imports (incl. NFS)                           381        442        593         782      1.242      1,565      1,601     1,831i     2176       2,52t      2,882      3.274
Resource Balance                               -65        -34        -26        -68         12       -209       -276       -270      -327       -388        -336       -259
Net Interest Payments                          -50        -18        -18        -13          2         -5        -42        -50        -65        -86       -114       -140
of which: Interest on Public Loans          (-17)      (-20)      (-22)      (-27)      (-31)      (-37)      (-40)      (-48)      (-69)      (-94)     (-126)     (-157)
Direct Investment Income                       -9         -10        -25        -35        -36        -37       -35         -47        -58        -70        -81        -93
Workers' Remittances                            29         44         62         98        119        146        135        142        149        156        164        172
Other Net Factor Services                      -8         -39        -41        -82       -103       -116       -107       -118       -130       -143       -157       -173
Current Transfers (net)                         10         16          6          4          1         -3          2          7          7          7          7          7
Balance on Current Account                    -93        -41         -42        -96         -5       -224       -323       -336      -424        -524       -517       -486
Private Direct Tnvestment                       19         24         31         57         49         48        63          75         86        110        121        133
Official Capital Grants                        43          35         37         45         43         50        42          45         40         40         40         38
Public M + LT Loans:
Disbursements                               82         107        140        153        174        211        285        407       470         590        622        661
- Amortization                                -45         -49        -70        -59        -59       -66         -70        -73       -87       -128       -177       -248
Net Disbursements                           37          58         70         94        115        145        215        334        383       462         445        413
Capital Transactions n.e.i. 3/                  13         24        -19         -8        -99        -62          3         -3         -          -          -
Change in Net Reserves (increase = -)          -19       -100        -77        -92       -103         43         -        -115        -85       -88         -89       -98
Net Foreign Reserves                           15         115        192        284        387        344        344        459        544        632        721        819
(months of imports equivalent)                0.5        3.1        3.9        4.4         3.7       2.6        2.6        3.0         3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0
B.   PUBLIC LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                                                   Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975
IBRD                                           -           37         36         25         64         37         65                                          Diab. Only   In Percent of Total
IDA                                            10          10         10          7         -          -          -         C.   EXTERNAL DEBT
Other Multilateral                              -          -           I         -          12         11         24             World Bank                     109.8            10.2
Governments                                    100         84        106        138         68        130        104             IDA                             55.3             5.2
Suppliers                                       8           5          7         12          2         27         49             Other Multilateral               8.6             0.8
Financial Institutions                         21          28         28         17         12         20          7             Governments                    691.8            64.6
Total Public M + LT Loans                      139        164        188        199        158        225        249             Suppliers                       86.8             8.1
Financial Institutions          99.3             9.3
Bonds                            1.1             0.1
Public Debt n.e.i.              18.6             1.7
Total Public M   LT Debt      1,071.3          100.0
D.   DEBT AND DENT SERVICE
Public Debt Outst. + Disbursed                524         604        680        807        954      1,071      1,280
Interest on Public Debt                      17          20         22         27         31         37         40
Amortization                                  45         48         70         59         59         66         70
Total Public Debt Service                    62          68         92         86         90        103        110
Burden on Export Earnings 4/ (b)
Public Debt Service                           19.6       16.7       16.2       12.0        7.2        7.6        8.3
TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.                     22.5       19.1       20.6       16.9       10.0       10.3       10.9
Average Terms of Public Debt
Int. as % of Prior Year DO + D                3.3         3.8        3.6        4.0        3.8        3.9        3.7
Amort. as % Prior Year DO + D                  9.5        9.1       11.6        8.7        7.3        6.9        6.5
IBRD Debt Out. + Disbursed                     26          39         52         70         89        110        128
IBRD as % of Public Debt                        5.0         6.5        7.6        8.7        9.3       10.3       10.0
IBRD as % of Public Debt Service                4.2         5.3        6.5        9.4       12.0       13.3       12.9
IDA Debt Out. and Disbursed                    16          21         28         57         43         55         64
IDA as % of Public Debt                         3.1         3.5        4.1        4.6        4.5        5.1        5.0
IDA as % of Public Debt Service                 0.1         0.2        0.3        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.5
1/ Exchange rates used for the various stocks and flows correspond to those published in IFS.
2/ Projected by World Bank Staff.                                                                                                                                   EMENA CP II
3/  Including erros and omissions.                                                                                                                                  May 1977
4/ Including non-factor services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of    ?Aar,h 1, 1977)
Loan or
Credit                                                                                      Amount (less cancellation)
Number      Year     Borrower                               Purpose                         Bank       IDA      Undis.
Eighteen  loans and credits fully disbursed                                                  87.9      37.0
238         1971    Republic of Tunisia                    Population                                   4.8        1.0
746         1971    Republic of Tunisia                    Highways                          24.0                  3.9
779         1971    Banque Nationale de Tunisie            Agricultural Credit                5.0
270         1971    Republic of Tunisia                    Fisheries                                    2.0
798         1972    Societe Nationale d'Investissement     Development Finance Co.           10.0                  0.9
858         1972     Republic of Tunisia                   Tourism Infrastructure             14.0                14.0
329         1972    Republic of Tunisia                    Tourism Infrastructure                      10.0        2.2
881         1973     Societe Nationale d'Investissement    Development Finance Co             14,0                 0.7
937         1973    Republic of Tunisia                    Urban Planning & Public            11.0                 5.8
Transportation
989         1974    SONEDE                                 Water Supply                      23.0                  8.1
1029         1974    Republic of Tunisia                    Hotel Training                     5.6                  5.6
1042         1974    Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA                Phosphate Development             23.3                20.4
1068         1974    Republic of "unisia                    Irrigation Rehabilitation         12.2                 10.5
1088         1975    Republic of Tunisia                    Urban Sewerage                    28.0                 27.1
1155         1975    Republic of Tunisia                    Education                          8.9                  8.9
1188         1976    Republic of Tunisia                    Highways                          28.0                 28.0
1189         1976    Banque de Developpement Economique
de Tunisie                            Develooment Finance Co.          20.0                 16.0
238-1        1976     Republic of Tunisia                    Popuiaf ion                                 4.8        4.8
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie b/        Agricultural Credit               12.0                 12.0
1355         1976     Societg Tunisienne de l'Electricite   Power                             14.5                 14.5
et du Gaz
TOTAL:                                                                                      341.4      70.1      185.2
of which has been repaid                                                                    28.4       0'3
Total now outstanding                                                                      313.0     69.8
Amount Sold                   4.8
of which has been repaid      3.0                                                          1.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA   a/                                                        284.5     69.8
Total undisbursed                                                                          1           8.7
a/ Prior to exchange adjustment,      /  Not yet effective                                             - 8.    18
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA   as of
Amount in US $ Million
Year         obligor                                        Type of Business                  Loan     Equity    Total
1962         NPK Engrais                                    Fertilizers                        2.0       1.5      3.5
1966         Societe Nationale d'Investissement             Development Finance Co.                      0.6      0.6
(SNI) now (BDET)
1969         COFITOUR (Tourism)                             Development Finance Co.            8.0       2.2     10.2
1970         Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                              Development Finance Co.                     0.6       0.6
1973         Societe Touristique & Hoteliere RYM SA.        Tourism                             1.6      0.3      1.9
1973         Societe d'Etudes & de D6veloppement de
Sousse-Nord                                   Tourism                                      X         t
1975         Soci6te d'Etudes & de D6veloppement de
Sousse-Nord                                   Tourism                            2.5       0.6      3.1
1974         Industries Chimiques du Fluor                  Chemicals                                    0.7      0.7
Total gross commitments                                                                        14.1      6.5     20.6
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                                        3,3       1.5      4.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                              10.8      5.0     15.8
Total undisbursed                                                                              10.5      0.3     10.5
8.1       -        8.1
Less than $50,000.00



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238: Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) June 30, 1978.
Cr. 238-1:Population Project; US$4.8 million Supplemental credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 21, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
A capable administration is helping the National Family Planning
Office maintain the progress of the national program. Acceptor rates show
a steady quarterly increase: April to June, the second quarter of the pro-
gram year, show: 1974, 17,740; 1975, 21,452; and 1976, 26,187. The education/
motivation division is increasing its emphasis on the production of materials
designed to help the educators with their work of informing leaders who are
in a position to influence the people. Eight of the planned 29 MCH clinics
have been completed and the remaining 21 will be finished by September 1977.
The Avicenne midwifery school is in full operation and in 1976 gave diplomas
to 35 midwives and 62 nurses. Three of the maternity hospitals will be com-
pleted by the end of 1977, but the fourth at Bizerte will not be completed
until the end of 1978. The additional sum of US$4.8 million provided by NORAD
will contribute to financing the project cost overruns which the Government
has agreed to underwrite.
Cr. 270: Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) July 31, 1978.
As of January 31, 1977, 89 of 180 project vessels had been delivered
to fishermen with financing provided under the credit through BNT. Progress of
implementation continues to be hampered by slower than expected demand for
project vessels attributable to construction and after-sales service problems.
The latter have in turn contributed to an unsatisfactory rate of sub-loan re-
covery by BNT. To overcome the technical problems, the Government has recently
agreed to set up a mobile service team, has undertaken to provide better train-
ing to new boat owners, and has been encouraged to shift the orders for the
remaining boats to the best of the three boatyards. BNT is introducing mea-
sures to improve loan recovery. The project is now expected to be completed
by September 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Ln. 989: Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Bidding has been completed for all major components of the project.
All pipe supply contracts have been awarded; contracts for civil works and
pipe installation are being evaluated. Construction is on schedule, and
disbursements are higher than anticipated.
Ln. 746:  First Highways Project; US$24 million loan of June 9, 1971, Date of
Effectiveness: October 26, 1971; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1976; (Current) June 30, 1977.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Progress in reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads and bridges
is good under the first project. All works are expected to be completed
in the first half of 1977. The delays have mostly been caused by delayed
acquisition of right-of-way. Cost overruns have required the elimination of
the Tunis-Turki section of the Tunis-Hammamet expressway and considerable
reductions of the withdrawal percentages. Construction of the expressway
section is now being financed by the Kuwait Fund.
After prequalification of contractors under the second project, the
Government has invited bids for the improvement of one road; other improvement
works are expected to be executed in accordance with the agreed timetable.
Consultants are now in the field to prepare proposals for a pilot rural roads
project.  Arrangements are now being completed for the updating of the 1968
transport survey.
Ln. 779:  Agricultural Credit Project; US$5 million loan and US$3 million
Cr. 263:  credit, both of July 12, 1971; Date of Effectiveness:   January 25,
1972; Closing Date: (Original) July 31, 1975, (Current) June 30,
1977.
Ln 1133:  Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of November
23, 1976; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
l
Implementation of the project components under the first project
has been progressing at a satisfactory pace and is nearly completed. Disburse-
ments in the grain farming category have continued normally and will be picked
up by the second agricultural credit project after the remaining funds are ex-
hausted; the dairy plant is nearing completion and test runs are scheduled for
June 1977; all 886 ha of date plantations in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas have
been completed. As of March 31, 1977, 96 percent of the loan/credit funds had
been disbursed,- and the new closing date of June 30, 1977 can very likely be
met.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Upon request of the Borrower the date by which the conditions for
effectiveness of the Bank loan for the second project have to be met was post-
poned from March 16, 1977 to May 31, 1977. One condition, the receipt of an
audit report for 1975, has been met, whereas the second one, the effectiveness
of revised lending terms for subloans extended by BNT from Government funds,
has not been met as yet. Field appraisal procedures and eligibility criteria
for the small farmer component are being worked out by BNT and will be agreed
with the Ministry of Agriculture.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of December 27, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises 150 MW of gas turbine capacity in seven units
of equal size to be installed at different locations and is estimated to cost
US$29.3 million equivalent including a foreign exchange component of US$25.1
million equivalent. Contracts have been awarded and progress in physical
execution of the project is satisfactory. In view of the proposed development
of offshore natural gas resources, the substitution of gas for oil for power
generation in future and STEG's likely responsibility for distribution of off-
shore gas throughout the country, STEG is undertaking a study to establish its
organization structure, its training needs and investments for the gas program.
Government is also undertaking a study with a view to determining an appro-
priate pricing policy for oil, gas and electricity and will submit the recom-
mendations to the Bank by September 1978. STEG is expected to earn an 8 per-
cent rate of return beginning with 1977.
Ln. 858: Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan and US$10 million
Cr. 329: credit, both of September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 26,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
After considerable delays in 1975 caused by the redefinition of the
project, the project is now moving ahead expeditiously. Following completion
of final design of most of the project infrastructure works, ONTT is awarding
construction contracts. Almost 60 percent of the infrastructure works are
under construction and some 20 percent already completed. Enactment of the
land-use plans for all of the tourism zones and the review of the incentives
legislation according to the results of the study of investment incentives
carried out under the project have not yet been completed but do not jeo-
pardize project implementation. Since infrastructure in the project zones
will shortly be available for tourism accommodation and related facilities,
the main emphasis of Bank supervision of the loan will shift to monitoring
of Government policies to promote investments in the project zones.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. 798:  Fourth Development Finance Company Project; US$10 million loan of
February 9, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 13, 1972; Closing
Date: (Original) March 31, 1976; (Current) July 31, 1977.
Ln. 881:  Fifth Development Finance Company Project; US$14 million loan of
February 20, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Of Loan 798, $0.3 million remain unallocated and $0.9 million un-
disbursed due to cancellations which occurred after the final date for sub-
project submission. Loan 881 is fully committed and $0.7 million remain to
be disbursed: the utilization of the loan has been generally in line with
the appraisal report's projection, which foresaw the loan to be fully dis-
bursed by March, 1977. Disbursements on Loan 1189 had reached $4.3 million
as of April, 1977 about 6 months behind schedule compared with the appraisal
report's projection. This is largely due to the loan having become effective
only 5 months after approval. The loan is however being committed on sched-
ule, with only $4.6 million remaining unallocated as of April, 1977. BDET
has shown considerable improvement since early 1976, in the key areas of
management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial practices and resource
mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly important role in finan-
cing industrial development, extending about one-third of all term credit
available to the industrial sector in Tunisia. As regards appraisal capab-
ility BDET is among the best of Bank-financed DFC's. Quality of project
supervision, however, still needs improvement.
Ln. 937:  Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432:  million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date:
(Original) December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Tunis
District has been well established and operates with residual technical
assistance only. The District is finishing its work on a strategic regional
development plan for Tunis and is now regularly associate_ -h or consulted
on all major public investment decisions in the Greater Tunis area. The
Societe Nationale des Transports (SNT) has renewed its bus fleet, -.s well as
its maintenance services. SNT's clientele has increased in an unp:Lcedented
manner; combined with improvements in routes and tariff structures and with
regular payment by the Government of compensation for social tariffs, this has
resulted in increased revenues sufficient to offset the effect of a substan-
tial salary raise. SNT has also completed all necessary preparation for the
delivery of the rolling stock to modernize its suburban railway line. Finally,
supplementary financing has been found to finance the construction of the
third bus depot and the cost overruns on the railway rolling stock. The civil
works for the traffic improvement program of the Municipality of Tunis are now
in execution; new traffic and parking regulations have been established, as
have special bus lanes and pedestrian areas.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The project continues to progress well. The courses prepared by the
ILO team are being tested in the Nabeul school and will be introduced into
other training schools during the 1977-78 school year. Evaluation of bids for
the first two training centers is underway and should be completed shortly;
contracts are expected to be signed soon, with construction to start shortly
thereafter. After considering dropping the third center because of changes
in tourism policy, the Government has decided to proceed with the third proj-
ect center. Transfer of land for the third center to ONTT is almost complete;
work on architectural designs has started.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project, US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
After many difficulties with the trial of the longwall method in the
Sehib mine, with as a consequence over one year of delay in project implementa-
tion, some positive results have now been obtained. On that basis, GAFSA is
preparing itself for the generalization of the. longwall method with the pur-
chase and installation of additional longwall equipment. The Bank has recom-
mended that GAFSA reinforce the project's technical management with outside
assistance in longwall mining. GAFSA has embarked on a vast expansion program
with the Sehib project, the modernization program and a new open pit project.
As a result of the severe drop in phosphate prices, most of these investments
are planned to be financed by debt. The Government has been made aware that
some additional equity would have to be brought in.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in the Medjerda subproject area has been satisfactory, with
the exception of application of certain provisions of the land reform legisla-
tion. Intensification of cropping has been started. In Nebhana, land reform
implementation continues and work is now underway to intensify agricultural
production. Consultants have been recruited and are preparing various studies
necessary for project implementation and for expansion into a second stage
project. Rehabilitation and construction works are progressing satisfactorily.
The Government and the agricultural credit bank (BNT) have concluded an on-
lending agreement setting the terms and conditions of sub-loans under the
credit component of the project.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date: June
15, 1979.
A delay of about six months was experienced at the beginning of proj-
ect execution as a result of the legislative measures required formally to
establish the new national sewerage authority (Office National de l'Assainisse-
ment - ONAS), followed by the numerous minor administrative problems involved
in the physical transfer to ONAS of systems and employees from the centers
taken over. In spite of these delays it is still expected that the works will
be completed within six months of the date foreseen at the time of appraisal.
However, disbursements are not expected to reach forecast levels until the end
of 1978. Revised cost estimates indicate that total project cost may increase
by 33 percent over appraisal estimates, most of the increase being in the local
cost components. Procedures for granting government subsidies to ONAS are
being reviewed, to ensure financial discipline and autonomy. The report of
consultants retained for studies of the Tunisian construction industry will
particularly address the problem of measures to reduce construction costs; the
report is expected by the end of June 1977.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Since the last mission to review project implementation in July,
1976, there has been no progress. The Government has indicated that owing
to a change in its education priorities, it no longer wishes to proceed with
the project items as they were conceived during appraisal, and to use the loan
proceeds to extend post-primary education. The rationale for the change in
educational priorities and suggested steps for the future of the loan have
just been conveyed to the Bank officially by the government. A dialogue is in
progress to clarify and determine possible ways to deal with the situation.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:      Authority for Development of the Lower Medjerda Valley
(OMVVM-PPI); National Water Supply Company (SONEDE);
Directorate of Large Hydraulic Works (DGTH) in the
Ministry of Public Works; Directorate of Studies and
Major Works (DEGTH) in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Amount:              $42 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               20 years including 3.5 years of grace, with interest at
8.2 percent.
Project              The project would comprise the construction of (i) a 550
Description:        Mm3 capacity dam/reservoir including a 25 MW hydropower
plant, relocation of a railroad line, a road and potable
water pipes near the site of the dam; (ii) a 126 km in-
terconnection canal from the El-Aroussia diversion 60
kilometers below the dam to the Cap Bon Peninsula; (iii)
irrigation, drainage and road networks and land prepara-
tion on two new public irrigation areas (Testour/Medjez
el Bab and Cap Bon) covering an area of 10,600 ha; (iv)
rehabilitation works for 6,000 ha of citrus plantations,
including a tertiary underground distribution network for
935 ha on the Cap Bon Peninsula; (v) buildings, housing
and equipment to operate and maintain project works.
Overseas training and consultant services to assist in
the design, tendering and supervision of construction of
project works, training, and studies on water development
and water policy issues would also be provided.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Estimated Cost:      The cost of the project is estimated at $386 million
equivalent, with the following main components:
----    $ Million---------
Local      Foreign     Total /1
1. Dam and Civil Works for Power Plant           58.9       44.8       103.7
2. Electro Mechanical Equipment for
Power Plant                                   3.2        5.1         8.3
3.  Interconnection Canal                        83.4       47.8       131.2
4. Relocations in Reservoir Area:
a. Railroad (substructure), Road
and Water Pipeline                       20.1       19.4        39.5
b.  Railroad (superstructure)                 8.1        8.7        16.8
Subtotal (4)                             28.2       28.1        56.3
5. Agricultural Development:
a.  Testour/Medjez                           15.2        16.3       31.5
b.  Citrus Plantations                        3.6        4.4         8.0
c.  Cap Bon /2                               17.4       19.6        37.0
d.  Credit and On-Farm Development            7.4        0.8         8.2
Subtotal (5)                             43.7       41.0        84.7
6. Consultants for Cap Bon, Studies and
Training                                      0.2         1.4        1.6
Total Project Cost
Base Cost                                  160.1      127.6       287.6
Physical Contingencies (8.9 percent)        14.0        11.4       25.5
Price Contingencies (25 percent)            43.4       29.3        72.7
GRAND TOTAL                                     217.5       168.3      385.8
/1   Including contingencies; errors due to rounding.
/2   Consultant cost is included in item 6.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing Plan:    The foreign exchange financing plan for the project will be
as shown below. The Government of Tunisia will provide the
balance of funds required.
Foreign Exchange
Item                     Foreign E ihange           Financing Plan
Cost             Source           Amount
--US$ million)--                    (US$ Million)
Dam and Associated Works             49.9           KfW                28.0
Iran               15.0
Suppliers Credit    5.1
48.1
Relocations in Reservoir Area        28.1           IBRD               19.4
Interconnection Canal                47.8           People's Republic
of China         54.2
Agricultural Development             41.1           IBRD               21.2
Arab or OPEC
funds          19.6
40.8
Consultants for Cap Bon,
Studies and Training                1.4           IBRD                1.4
Government          4.4
Total                          168.3                             168.3
/1   Including contingencies; discrepancies due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursements:
1977   1978    1979   1980   1981    1982   1983  1984
Annual                0.1    17.9   10.0    5.0    5.0     2.5    1.0   0.5
Cumulative            0.1   18.0    28.0   33.0   38.0   40.5    41.5  42.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Procurement:        Of the 15 major civil works contracts expected to be
financed by the Bank loan, 12 would be contracted under
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines; 3 Bank-financed civil works
contracts, up to a maximum aggregate cost of $2,000,000,
would be tendered locally according to normal Government
competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory.
Contracts for civil works and equipment would be grouped
to the extent practicable. Small equipment items, the
total of which would not exceed $100,000, would also be
purchased through normal local competitive procurement
procedures. In the evaluation of bids, domestic equipment
manufacturers would be given a margin of preference of
15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower.
Consultants:         The Bank loan would finance consulting firms to assist:
(a) OMVVM in preparation of final design and bidding
documents, bid evaluation and construction supervision
for the Testour/Medjez el Bab and citrus rehabilitation
sub-projects, and in preparation of final designs and
tender documents for the Cap Bon sub-project; (b) DGTH in
preparation of final designs and bidding documents, bid
evaluation and construction supervision for railroad
relocation (substructure); and (c) DEGTH in execution of
hydrological, pollution and water development and policy
studies. In addition, the Bank loan would finance about
110 man-months of individual experts to support construc-
tion supervision by DGTH and 168 man-months to support
OMVVM. Average cost per man/month would be $6,000 for
DGTH and $5,000 for OMVVM.
Economic Rate
of Return:          11.1 percent.
Appraisal:          Report No. 1215-TUN, dated May 5, 1977



ANNEX IV
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Project:     1969-1975 1/
(b)  Agencies which prepared Project:   Directorate of Studies and Major
Hydraulic Works, Ministry of Agri-
culture (DEGTH); FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Program; five consulting firms:
Coyne et Bellier, Italconsult, ORSTOM,
Sofrerail, and Dafeco.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:   May, 1968 1/
(d) First Bank mission to review
Project:                           December, 1968 1/
(e) Bank technical assistance grant
for Northern Tunisia Water
Master Plan Study:                 May, 1969 1/
(f) Bank Review with Government of
revised Water Master Plan Study:   December, 1974
(g)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    January 30, 1976
(h)  Completion of Negotiations:        April 22, 1977
(i)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:     Mid-October, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
The Bank will continue close collaboration with KfW and, as appro-
priate, other financing partners during project execution. The Bank expects
to participate in a meeting of lenders contributing to the financing of the
Sidi Salem Dam and associated works which the Government intends to organize
in early July, 1977.
1/   As explained in the text (paras. 31-33), detailed studies on the Water
Master Plan for Northern Tunisia, as well as rehabilitation investments,
were needed before the financing of the proposed project was considered
appropriate.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) For effectiveness, (i) Establishment of a project coordination committee
(para 43); (ii) Appointment of a project manager by the National Railways
Company, SNCFT, responsible for the component assigned to SNCFT (para
43); (iii) Effectiveness of the KfW loan (para 40); (iv) Submission of
calendar, plans, designs and specifications acceptable to the Bank, for
execution of the Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal (para 43).
(b) For disbursements on the Cap Bon citrus rehabilitation component,
beginning of execution of the Medjerda-Cap Bon Canal (para 45).
(c) Government to relocate or satisfactorily compensate persons living in
areas to be inundated by Sidi Salem Reservoir (para 47).
(d) Government to recruit consultants acceptable to the Bank to assist:
(a) OMVVM and DEGTH in preparation of final design and bidding documents,
bid evaluation and construction supervision; and (b) DEGTH in hydro-
logical, pollution, water development and policy studies (para 42).
(e) Government to (i) Establish operating rules acceptable to the Bank for
the Sidi Salem Reservoir (para 46); (ii) Study and exchange views with
the Bank on the allocation of water and investment costs for project
works among users, and conclude recovery agreements with STEG and SONEDE
(para 46); (iii) Establish and execute a water quality monitoring program
for the Medjerda River, acceptable to the Bank (para 46); (iv) Consult
the Bank before deciding to increase the water level in the Sidi Salem
Reservoir from 105 to 110 meters (para 46).
(f) Government to carry out an irrigation infrastructure cost recovery policy
study, submit its recommendations to the Bank by December 31, 1978 for the
introduction of a system of investment contributions based on repayment
capacity of farmers and permitting maximum possible recovery of project
investments (para 49).
(g) Government. to carry out an agreed land reform program in project zone;
maximum holding size in new Testour/Medjez perimeter being financed
by Bank not to exceed 15 hectares for land categories permitting very
intensive crops and 50 hectares for other land categories; maximum
holding size in other project zones to be set so as to encourage optimal
use of available irrigation water (para 48); investment contributions
(betterment taxes) of agricultural beneficiaries to be at least 100
dinars per hectare; and irrigation water charges to be revised at not
more than three year intervals and to be at least 0.006 dinars per cubic
meter in the new irrigation areas and 0.012 dinars in the citrus rehabil-
itation zone (para 48).
(h) Government to ensure annual inspection of Sidi Salem Dam and related
works and carry out necessary remedial measures (para 47).



ANNEX IV
Page 3
(i)  Government to ensure medium and short term credit available to project
farmers on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para 39).
(j) Cross default with KfW (para 40).
(k) Default in case Government is unable to effect withdrawals under Iranian
or Chinese loan and other satisfactory arrangements not made to ensure
payment of project expenditures either loan was to finance (para 40).



Area  "-'                                                                                                                             3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 12232
,430, , C4"0f-cO,, ic               _ TUNISIA                                                                     10              TUNISIA                                       i              JUNE 1976
Tuni   .r                //yw~A                                                                             SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
<   map.             AFRICA        \              t                                                 Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia
O   TUN I S I A                                                                        I B>  1  IRD prolevi areas, Ist phase (10,600 ha)  Interconnection canal, 1st phase     Main roads
<t  I6 tt!   _____   Sofeguard of citrus plantations(6,000ha)      Open canol                         R--Rroads
)                                                                JI\                  Proposed rrigatior' areos, 2nd phase _____PUnderground pipe                      -isoe-er.Rehabilitotion of e.isting roilroad
, - : X                                         ,j PJ1                    _   _    ewistiog irrigerio areas lie operation or ongoing)  Proposed fur ore canal, 2nd phase-  ,,,-s--- , New railroad (relorotin)
h. 'ChI ci Dierid               t1-                                               U - Existing doms ond reservoirs               Open canal                               High tension line, 150 kh
\            - /'' S'- Proposed diw- and reservoirs       ====-    Underground pipe                      -   High tension lines, 90 hk
K                                                                          __________ Rivers                               f    Proposed pumping stoHation, Ist phase  - -      Medium tension lines, 22-30kv
j\    Proposed futere p-mping stations, 2nd phase  O  Transformer station, 225 kv
\                                                                                               ''~/                         E-ising potable water pipes           0    Transformer stotions, 90 hk
LI BYA          0      10     20     30     40      50                                                                                                            0    Transformer stations, 22-30 ho
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                      Ezrliet
\ ./            O          10          20          3                                                                                                Ik =<   9Menoe Oje/S_,,1  ._ ._. International boundories
tOo toondmsvoom soc ,hn............. m p do noz .... _ / y SEDJENANE  ^>  >q;2\r <   -  - / via Sor No Frrino
wo ft~k-d rs-nfl-,       tfw=                                                                                                                                              Ms /Aedoierranean  Sec
/Yjted,ierrrynean 5SeMTc
37*                                                                                        IN                                                                                                           327`
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <                                                                    L     G   N A)<
IJ                ,-SADRDUNA0 CS                                    AnA                                 CA)uR,''E''@D>,,5e,RLs
SHARD IMAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO                                                                et
-' SIR MCI'IERISA~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~IA                  atHe,
A LG E R I A   ,.c,c               1,C) HEURM                                                                    ERUCMAeorsok  2iNaed2nntronecioucel ol26e
MESKINE  9                                                                                                      -                  2 Railroad relocation: Lu 24km~~~~~~~el Bb,  11.
GHARI) MAO                            Gou ellat  Bi, Mcherga                                         SAF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b  edle  l  ab3,00h
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ER                                           1                                                                                             I. 4cd Sape Dom:-V,dDh M.
/                                                                                        c~~~          to                          isME:EGU                            11' Ts.,  ,4 0h
Bou A,.d.                                           "',nel            4b Mdiez el Bo - 3,800 h



