Report No. 1215-TUN
Tunisia
Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project   FILE COPY
May 5, 1977
Emena Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Rank
This document bas a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipents
onty in the performance of their officiai duttes. Its contents may not
otherwise be duscosed wtthout Wcfdr dRank authorizathn



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
Currency Unit        =   Tunisian Dinar (D)
US$1                 =   D 0.417
D 1                  =   US$2.40
D 1 million          =   US$2.4 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                               British/US System
1 millimeter (mm)                    =       0.039 inch (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                            0.394 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                          =        3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     =       0.621 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)             =       0.386 square mile (m2)
1 hectare (ha)                       =       2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter per second (1/sec)                   0.035 cubic foot per second (ft3/sec)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)           35.315 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)         =     810.713 acre feet (ac-ft)
1 kilogram (kg)                              2.205 pounds (lb)
1 to-n (ton)                         =   2,205.000 pounds (lb)
1 kilowatt (KW)                      -       1.341 horsepower (hp)
1 megawatt (MW)                      =   1,341.000 horsepower (hp)
1 atmosphere (at)                    =      14.224 pounds/square inch (psi)
GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
/1   As of February 1976



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABREVIATIONS
BNT          National Bank of Tunisia.
Banque Nationale de Tunisie.
DEGTH        Directorate of Study and Hydraulie Works.
(Ministry of Agriculture)
Direction des Etudes et Grands Travaux Hydrauliques.
(Ministère de l'Agriculture)
DGTH         Directorate of Main Hydraulic Works.
(Ministry of Public. Works)
Direction des Grands Travaux Hydrauliques.
(Ministère de l'Equipement)
OMVVM-PPI    Office for the Development of the Lower Medjerda Valley
and Public Irrigation Areas.
Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallée de la Medjerda
et des Périmètres Publics Irrigués.
DAFL         Directorate of Land Reform.  (Ministry of Agriculture)
Direction des Affaires Foncières et Légales.
(Ministère de l'Agriculture)
SNCFT        National Company for Tunisian Railways.
Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens.
SONEDE       National Company for the Exploitation and
Distribution of Drinking Water.
Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux.
STEG         Tunisian Company for Electricity and Gas.
Société Tunisienne de l'Electricité et du Gaz.
This document has à restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......            ..........................           i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .        ....................................                        1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  .................................                          1
A.    General  ........           ....................... .............            1
B.    The Irrigated Sub-sector  .....              .................... .          2
C.    The Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia  ....... .                        3
D.    Previous Bank Projects  .... ............ . ............                     3
III.    PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS                      .................       4
A.    Area  .....       .      .........................................           4
B.    Natural Resources  .................................                         6
C.    Land Holdings  ....          .... ... ........                               7
D.    Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields                   ......        7
E.    Marketing and Cooperatives  ........................                         8
F.    Agricultural Institutions  .........                 ................        8
G.    Credit    ........................................... .                      9
IV.    THE PROJECT  ............................................                         10
A.    Project Works  .....................................                        10
B.    Water Demand, Availability,  Quality and Rights  ....                       12
C.    Status of Engineering - Consultants Services                   ......       14
D.    Cost Estimates  ....................................                        15
E.    Financing               .........................................          18
F.    Implementation Schedule  .....             ......................          19
G.    Procurement  .......................................                       20
H.    Disbursements  .....................................                       20
I.    Environmental Impact  .....              .........................         21
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .    ...........................                          21
A.    Organization and Management  ..             .....................           21
B.    Operation, Maintenance and Extension ...............                       23
C.    Land Reform ....... .............               ...................        24
D.    Cost Recovery  ........ ............................                        24
E.    Accounts and Audit  ................................                       25
F.    Monitoring .............. ...........................                      26



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                           Page No.
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................        26
A.   Production .............                                   26
B. Markets and Prices . . ...27
C.   Producer  Income   ... .    e ...... e......... * .............*28
D.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries.                           29
E.   Economic Rate of Return          .............             30
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........               31
ANNEXES
Annex 1   -    Agricultural Development
Table  1 - Climatic Data
Table  2 - Land Use, Yield and Production
Table  3 - Crop Rotation - Testour/Medjez el Bab
Table  4 - Crop Rotation - Cap Bon
Table  5 - Development of Cattle Herd - Testour/Medjez el Bab
Table  6 - Development of Cattle Herd - Cap Bon
Table  7 - Milk Production - Testour/Medjez el Bab
Table  8 - Milk Production - Cap Bon
Table  9 - Feed Availability
Table 10 - Extension Services Staff Requirements and Annual Cost
Table Il - Populations
Annex 2   -    Water Demand, Availability, Quality and Rights
Table 1 - Estimated Water Requirements - Testour/Medjez el Bab
Table 2 - Estimated Water Requirements - Cap Bon
Annex 3   -    Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
Table 1 - Present Land Tenure
Table 2 - Timetable for the Carrying Out of the Land Reform
Annex 4   -    Project Description
Table 1 - Technical Data for the Sidi Salem and Associated Works
Table 2 - Data on Pumping Stations
Table 3 - Main Characteristics of Water Intakes on the
Medjerda-Cap Bon Interconnection Canal
Table 4 - Technical Data for Irrigation Component
Table 5 - Cost of the Buildings, Housing and Milk Collecting
Centers
Annex 5   -    List of Equipment and Materials to be Procured



ANNEXES (Continued)
Annex 6   -    Potable and Industrial Water Supply
Table 1 - Potable and Industrial Water Supply by Sidi Salem
Reservoir
Figure 1 - Forecast of Potable and Industrial Water Demand and
Most Probable Demand for Sidi Salem Water
Figure 2 - Forecast of Potable and Industrial Water Demand
with Assumed Reduced Demand for Sidi Salem Water
Annex 7   -    Improvement of the Quality of Irrigation Water in the
Lower Medjerda Valley
Annex 8   -    Foreign Consultants
Table 1 - Individual Foreign Consultants
Annex 9   -    Table - Cost Estimates
Annex 10  -    Table - Proposed Financing Plan
Annex Il  -    Table - Implementation Schedule
Annex 12  -    Table - Schedule of Expenditures
Annex 13  -    Table - Procurement:  Civil Works and Equipment
Annex 14  -    Table - Disbursements of IBRD Loan - Estimated Schedule
Annex 15  -    Operation and Maintenance
Table 1 - Maintenance - Annual Cost
Table 2 - Operation Staff Requirements - Annual Cost
Table 3 - Annual Cost of Electrical Energy
Table 4 - Operation and Maintenance Cost - Combined
Annex 16        Cost Recovery and Farm Budgets
Table  1 - Rent and Cost Recovery
Table  2 - Cost and Recovery Streams Through Time
Table  3 - Farm Budget:  Cap Bon Farm Type I - (2 ha)
Table  4 - Farm Budget:  Cap Bon Farm Type II - (8 ha)
Table  5 - Farm Budget:  Testour/Medjez el Bab Farm Type III - (05 ha)
Table  6 - Farm Budget:  Testour/Medjez el Bab Farm Type IV - (15 ha)
Table  7 - Farm Budget:  Testour/Medjez el Bab Farm Type V - (50 ha)
Table  8 - Farm Budget:  Cap Bon Citrus Plantations
Table  9 - Variable Production Costs:  Testour/Medjez el Bab
Subproject
Table 10 - Variable Production Costs: Cap Bon Subproject



ANNEXES (Continued)
Annex 17       Marketing and Markets
Annex 18  -    Table - Labor Requirements
Annex 19  -    Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 2 - Economic and Financial Prices
Table 3 - Effect on Economic Rate of Return of Delaying
the Start of Project Construction
Table 4 - Cost and Benefit Streams for Hydroelectric and
and Gas Turbine Generating Schemes
Appendix 1 - Water Demand Used in Test 9
Appendix 2 - Water Demand Used in Test 10
Appendix 3 - Water Deficit in Test 9 - With Sidi Salem Case
Appendix 4 - Water Deficit in Test 10 - Without Sidi Salem Case
Appendix 5 - Electricity Tariffs
CIHARTS
Chart 16014    -      Relationship between Project Authorities and Other
Government Organizations
Chart 16015    -      Organization of OMVVM - PPI
MAPS
IBRD 12232     -      Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia
IBRD 12235     -      Testour and Medjez el Bab Subproject
IBRD 12233     -      Cap Bon Irrigation Subproject
IBRD 12234     -      Safeguard of Citrus Plantations
IBRD 12236     -      Medjerda - Cap Bon Interconnection Canal and its Users



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tunisia covers 164,000 km2 and in 1975 had a population of about
5.6 million with an average annual growth rate of 2.3%. Agriculture pro-
vided about 21% of GDP and employed about 42% of the labor force; agricultural
products represented about 20% of merchandise exports. Agricultural imports
have increased sharply over the past decade reaching 16% of merchandise im-
ports in 1975. During the 4th Plan (1973-1976), annual real growth in the
agricultural sector was 3.6% compared with 7.6% for the whole economy. One of
the Government's main objectives during the 5th Plan (1977-1981) is therefore
to obtain self-sufficiency in important foods (cereals, dairy products, sugar)
and a balanced foreign trade in other agricultural products.
ii.       Out of 9 million ha of land suitable for agriculture (including
range and forest), 220,000 ha are potentially irrigable of which 132,000 ha
are now equipped for irrigation, mainly in the Lower and Central Medjerda
Valley, the Nebhana area, Cap Bon, and the southern oases.
iii.      The Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan, partly financed by the
Bank, determined the least expensive way to meet the Government's objectives
of achieving the agricultural development of the rural areas in Northern
Tunisia; an adequate urban and rural water supply; and flood control of the
Medjerda River.
iv.       This Report appraises the Multipurpose Sidi Salem Project for which
a Bank loan of US$42 million is proposed. The project would implement the
first phase of the M4aster Plan and would comprise the following works:
(i) the construction of the Sidi Salem Dam and its associated
works (power plant, road and railroad relocations, etc.);
(ii) the construction of 126 km of an Interconnection Canal
linking El Aroussia (some 60 km downstream from the Sidi
Salem Dam) to the Cap Bon area;
(iii) provision of irrigation, drainage and road networks.
It would include the following components:
(a) irrigation and agricultural development of about 10,600
ha, now mainly dry-farmed, and some 6,000 ha of citrus
plantations in the Central Medjerda and Cap Bon areas;
(b) improvement of agricultural production on 32,800 ha
in the Lower Medjerda Valley;



- if -
c)  supply of potable and industrial water for the Tunis, Cap
Bon and Sousse regions;
(d) supply of electric energy to Northern Tunisia;
(e)  flood control of the Medjerda River;
(f) consultants for assistance in execution of project works
and carrying out water development and policy studies; and
(g) training.
v.        The Ministry of Public Works would have over-all responsibility for
construction of the dam and associated works and of the Interconnection Canal.
The Ministry of Agriculture through its Directorate of Studies and Hydraulic
Works (DEGTH) would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
dam and Interconnection Canal and execution of the water development and policy
studies. The Ministry of Agriculture would also be responsible through the
Office for the Development of the Lower Medjerda Valley and Public Irrigation
Areas (OMVVM-PPI) for the design, the construction, operation, and maintenance
of the irrigation network and for agricultural development.
vi.       Total project cost is estimated at about US$386 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$168 million. The proposed Bank loan (US$42
million) would represent 11% of the total cost and 25% of the foreign ex-
change component of the project. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange
costs of:
(a)  the substructure of the railroad to be relocated;
(b) the relocation of roads and potable water pipe line;
(c) the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject (5,200 ha) and
the safeguard and rehabilitation of citrus plantations
in the Cap Bon area (6,000 ha);
(d) the consultants for the above components and for the
Cap Bon Subproject, and for the water development and
policy studies component; and
(e) the training component.
For financing the other project elements, the Tunisian Government has obtained
loans from Iran and People's Republic of China and expects to obtain finan-
cing from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, Arab or OPEC sources and suppliers.
vii.      At full development, annual incremental production is expected to
be: wheat 2,700 tons; sorghum 3,900 tons; sugar beet 40,000 tons; sunflowers
1,000 tons; maize 1,900 tons; deciduous fruits 4,000 tons; vegetables 66,000
tons; citrus 90,000 tons; milk 15,000 tons; and beef 2,400 tons. Incremental
production would be mainly for import substitution although some citrus and



- iii -
vegetables would be exported. In addition, the project would provide about
100 Mm3 per year of potable and industrial water to the Tunis, Cap Bon, and
Sousse areas.
viii.     The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at about
11.1%.  The main beneficiaries of the project would be about 8,000 farmers'
families of which about 48% belong to the poverty target group. In addition
full-time employment for 5,700 workers is expected to result from the agri-
cultural component of the project. The urban population of the Tunis, Cap
Bon, and Sousse regions would benefit from improved potable and industrial
water supply. At full development, the annual net incremental value of pro-
duction in constant 1976 prices would amount to about US$45 million. The
average annual per capita income from farming would increase from the present
level of US$300 to US$1,475 in the Testour/Medjez el Bab area, from US$195 to
US$770 in the Cap Bon area,and from US$530 to US$1,115 in the citrus planta-
tion area.
ix.       On the basis of the agreements on the issues set forth in this
report, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$42 million to the
Republic of Tunisia. The loan would be for a period of 20 years including 3
1/2 years of grace.






TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Tunisia has requested a Bank loan to help finance
the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project. The People's Republic of China, the
Iranian Government, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), Arab and OPEC
sources, as well as suppliers, are expected to participate in financing the
project.
1.02      A Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia was completed in March
1975, and concluded that the project would be the best way to meet the Gov-
ernment's objectives of achieving: (i) the agricultural development of the
rural areas in Northern Tunisia; (ii) an adequate potable and industrial
water supply; and (iii) flood control of the Medjerda River. The study was
made by the Government and consultants and partly financed by a Bank grant.
1.03      The proposed multipurpose project is the first phase of execution
of this Master Plan and would utilize the water of the Medjerda River to:
(i) irrigate some 10,600 ha in the Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon areas;
(ii) prevent decline of 6,000 ha of citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area;
(iii) improve agricultural production on about 32,800 ha in the Lower Medjerda
Valley; (iv) help meet potable and industrial water requirements for the urban
areas of Tunis, Cap Bon and Sousse; (v) reduce damage caused by periodic
floods in the Medjerda Valley; and (vi) generate electricity.
1.04      The feasibility study for the irrigation development was prepared
by Italconsult (Italy), with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program (CP) and of four French consulting firms: Coyne et Bellier, ORSTOM,
Sofrerail and Dafeco. A Bank mission including Messrs. C. Polti, I. Zamfir,
L. Alston and Ms. S. Gazzari appraised the project in February 1976. The dam
and associated works component, which are expected to be partly financed by
the KfW, were appraised by Mlr. J. Sigismond (Bank Consultant). Also present
at appraisal were two KfW representatives, Messrs. Gurlitt and Vahl.
II. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Tunisia covers an area of 164,000 km2 and in 1975 had a population
of about 5.6 million; the average annual population growth rate during 1966-75
was 2.3%. About 42% of the population depends on agriculture for a livelihood
although agriculture's share of total output is declining. Per capita GDP in
1976 was about US$780 and the Bank estimated absolute poverty level in 1976
was US$191 per capita.



- 2 -
2.02      Out of 9 million ha of land suitable for agriculture, 5.3 million
ha is classified as cultivable; the remainder is range land suitable for ex-
tensive sheep grazing, low yielding forest and desert. Only Northern Tunisia
has sufficient rainfall, (exceeding 350 mm per annum) to support a wide range
of rainfed crops, in particular wheat and barley. Drought or floods, however,
often depress yields.
2.03      In the 1960s, agriculture was disrupted by the Tunisian cooperative
experiment, the departure of a large number of expatriate farmers, weakness
in extension services and failure to resolve land tenure issues. When the
cooperative system was abandoned in 1969, 4.5 million ha were returned to
private ownership; despite major problems associated with this return, agri-
cultural production in 1971 and 1972 increased by 27% and 30% respectively.
2.04      In 1975, agriculture contributed about 21% of gross domestic product,
and provided about 20% of total commodity exports (principally olive oil,
citrus and other fruits, and vegetables). Of these only olive oil ranked
among major crops, while the others represented only a small part (11%) of
total farm output in 1975. During the Fourth Development Plan (1973-1976)
agricultural exports were nearly equal to food imports (on average D 74
million annually exported compared with D 76 million imported). Prices of
agricultural imports (mainly cereals, edible oils, dairy products, livestock
and sugar) increased more rapidly than prices of agricultural exports or of
produce sold on the local market.  In fact domestic agricultural prices
declined in real terms through the plan period, but in spite of this agricul-
tural production grew by 3.6% annually, exceeding the planned target, largely
as a result of exceptionally good rainfall and other favorable weather condi-
tions.
B. The Irrigated Sub-Sector
2.05      The potentially irrigable area is limited to 220,000 ha, mostly in
Northern Tunisia. The present irrigable area covers about 132,000 ha, of
which 45,000 ha are in public irrigation areas. Medjerda and Nebhana are the
oldest public irrigation projects in Tunisia, partly financed by France from
1950 to 1960.
2.06      In 1962, Government outlined a 10-year "Minimum Plan" calling for
development of 32,800 ha in the Lower Medjerda Valley.  By the end of 1975,
about 27,000 ha net had been equipped with main irrigation and drainage
facilities.  The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the African De-
velopment Bank, and the United States Agency for International Development
participated in this development.  In the past, lack of security of farm
titles, fragmentation of holdings and poor extension programs have resulted
in under utilization of the irrigation system. The existing facilities were
badly maintained resulting in the breakdown of turnouts, stilling basins,
culverts, drains and roads. Some progress, however, has been made in recent
years, following changes and reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.07      While the Minimum Plan is proceeding in the Lower MIedjerda Valley
several public irrigation perimeters are under construction or have been
equipped in the Central and Upper Medjerda, notably Badrouna (3,200 ha) and
Lakhmess (1,200 ha), partly financed by German bilateral aid.



- 3 -
C.  The Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia
2.08      In 1968, as a result of the increasing demand for potable and in-
dustrial water, primarily in the Tunis and Cap Bon areas, and for addi-
tional irrigation water, the Government outlined a strategy for a Water Master
Plan for Northern Tunisia covering practically the whole northern part of the
country, including the Medjerda River Basin, the Ichkeul Watershed, the
Djoumine, Sedjenane and Madene Rivers, and the Cap Bon Watershed. In 1969,
the Bank made a technical assistance grant of US$150,000 to finance consul-
tants (Italconsult, Italy) to carry out these studies. Italconsult's report
(July 1970) proposed three alternative schemes whose common denominator was
the priority given to potable and industrial water supplies.  Italconsult
concluded that the Tunisian proposal to build a dam at Sidi Salem and to
construct an Interconnection Canal from El Aroussia to the Cap Bon area (IBRD
Map 12232) was economically justified. The consultants, however, recommended
that certain hypotheses based on data from available studies be verified by
further studies on the four following aspects: (i) water salinity in the
Medjerda River Basin system; (ii) resistance of citrus to saline irrigation
water; (iii) possibility of using treated sewage waters from the Tunis area
for irrigation; and (iv) economic and technical feasibility of the Sidi Salem
Dam. The Bank reviewed the report and agreed with Italconsult's conclusions.
The recommended studies were carried out by several consultants between 1970
and 1974. The revised Water Master Plan, based on a mathematical approach
and taking account of the changes in world prices - especially of energy -
was submitted in 1974 to the Tunisian Government.
2.09      The revised Master Plan proposed a multipurpose scheme for devel-
opment of water resources in the Medjerda and Ichkeul Basins to: (i) supply
sufficient potable and industrial water to meet the estimated requirements for
the Tunis, Cap Bon and Sousse areas in the year 2000; (ii) supply additional
water to safeguard 6,000 ha citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area; (iii)
improve agricultural production in areas already equipped in the Lower
Medjerda Valley; (iv) irrigate about 30,000 ha; (v) generate hydroelectrical
energy, and (vi) protect against the Medjerda River's floods. The proposed
Plan has been approved by the Tunisian Government and the decision was taken
to implement it in two phases. This appraisal report covers the first phase,
called the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project. The second phase, the Ichkeul
Project, would provide construction of additional dams (Sedjenane, Djoumine,
Madene, Saida), a link canal to supply potable water to Bizerte and Tunis, and
using water from the Sidi Salem Dam, irrigation of about 18,000 ha to the
south and north of Tunis (Lower Valley, Mornag, etc.). The proposed works and
the irrigation area for both phases are shown on IBRD Map 12232.
D. Previous Bank Projects
2.10      The first Bank/IDA project for agricultural development in Tunisia
was the Cooperative Farm Project in 1967 (Loan/Credit 484/99-TUN, US$18.0
million subsequently reduced to US$9.8 million). Following major changes in



- 4 -
Tunisia's agricultural policy in 1969, the original project was substantially
revised and then completed in 1973. The Project Performance Audit Report
which was circulated to the Board on January 8, 1976, discusses the diffi-
culties of Tunisian agriculture under the collective system in effect until
late 1969. In 1971, the Bank/IDA approved a loan/credit for a first Agricul-
tural Credit Project (Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN, US$8.2 million). The project
was to finance part of Banque Nationale de Tunisie's (BNT) lending to commer-
cial farmers for investment in grain farm mechanization, dairy farming, and
date palm plantations. Implementation was slow initially but the loan is now
fully committed and will soon be fully disbursed. A Second Agriculture Credit
Bank loan was approved in November 1976 (Loan 1340-TUN, US$12.0 million). The
Project aims at supporting a two-year lending program for on-farm development
of small and commercial farms and for agro-industries and a four-year lending
programs for small holder date-palm plantation development. IDA is financing
a Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN, US$2.0 million) aimed at development of
Tunisia's inshore fisheries. Implementation of the project is generally
satisfactory although problems have been experienced in gaining acceptance
by some of the fishermen of the marine engine of the project boats.
.2.11      The need for rehabilitation and improved use of existing water
resources was recognized in the preliminary stages of the definition of the
Water Master Plan and in December 1974, the Bank approved a loan for an Irri-
gation Rehabilitation Project in the Lower Medjerda Valley and Nebhana (Loan
1068-TUN, US$12.2 million). The Lower Medjerda Valley component includes
about 20,000 ha net of which 75% is already equipped with irrigation and
drainage facilities; the remainder lacks secondary and tertiary distribution
networks. The Nebhana component includes the rehabilitation of existing irri-
gation, drainage and road networks over about 5,000 ha net in the Nebhana
area. The loan became effective in September 1975 and the physical imple-
mentation is satisfactory. However, limited access by small farmers to credit
and delays in enforcement of certain aspects of land reform legislation still
remain problems of the project.
2.12      A Water Supply IV Project will be presented to the Board in May 1977;
this Water Supply Project would make use of Water Master Plan for Northern
Tunisia investments and would include the construction of a regional water pro-
duction complex and distribution systems in the urban agglomeration of five
northern provinces of the country. The Bank loan (US$21.0 million) would
cover part of the foreign exchange of the Project which is expected to be
carried out in the years 1978 through 1982.
III. PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. Area
3.01      The rockfill Sidi Salem Dam on the Medjerda River (IBRD Map 12232),
the main work of the project, would be the key element in the first phase of
the Water Master Plan. It would provide power, as well as potable, industrial
and irrigation water supply.



-5 -
Electricity and Water Supply Components
3.02      The electricity and water supply components of the project would
affect the Northern part of Tunisia in which the main cities of the country
are located. During the 10-year period to 1982, total water consumption
in Tunisia is expected to increase by 86%. But the water resources of the
country are so limited that the demands for irrigation and for potable water
will exceed the total available supplies-of fresh water in part of the-éo-un-
t--y-S  1990.  Mixing of brackish water with water of better quality is cur-
rently envisaged to produce greater quantities of water with higher but still
acceptable degrees of salinity. In the future, available sources of supply
for irrigation and industrial use would be supplemented by recycled treated
sewage or by desalination of brackish or sea waters.
3.03      Annual growth in electricity sales averaged about 11% from 1962 to
1975 and is expected to continue at the same rate in the near future. Natural
gas and oil are the most important energy sources for electricity. Total
estimated hydro power potential is limited by the lack of sites permitting
further developments except for a small powerplant at Sidi Salem.
Agricultural Component.
3.04      The agricultural component of the project would increase water
resources, reduce water salinity and control floods in the lower part of the
Medjerda Valley, including the 32,800 ha to be irrigated under the Minimum
Plan, and provide or improve irrigation facilities in two geographic areas:
5,200 net ha in the Central Medjerda Valley area comprising 1,400 ha near
Testour and 3,800 ha near Medjez el Bab both in the Beja Governorate, and
11,400 ha in the Cap Bon peninsula comprising 6,000 ha of existing Citrus
Plantations and 5,400 ha which are at present mainly under rainfed cultivation.
3.05      Population.  The water supply component would affect the Northern
Tunisia population which is estimated at 2.8 million inhabitants in 1976, and
particularly the "Greater Tunis" area which has a population of about 1 million
and a growth rate of about 4.2% per year.
3.06      The Medjerda Valley and Cap Bon areas are densely populated, about
100 inhabitants per km2. The agricultural component would affect about 46,000
persons (Annex 1, Table 11) by creating new jobs and reducing unemployment.
The underemployment rate in agriculture varies from 10% (Cap Bon and Lower
Medjerda Valley) to 43% (Testour/Medjez el Bab).
3.07      Transportation.  The project areas are adequately served by the
existing main road networks. Four asphalted roads run through Testour and
Medjez el Bab, two of which link Tunis to the Algerian border. In the Cap
Bon area, three main roads and a number of secondary roads are asphalted.
The Testour/Medjez el Bab area is also served by the Tunis-Algiers railway
line.



- 6 -
3.08      Health and Education.  Although the Northern Tunisia area is served
by a number of hospitals, dispensaries and health centers, the project area is
poorly equipped in health infrastructure. Existing educational facilities are
also insufficient to meet the needs of farming population. Additional health
and education facilities are expected to be provided by the Government in the
framework of its Fifth Plan (1977-1981).
B. Natural Resources
Climate
3.09      In the project area, summers are hot (average 280C) and dry while
winters are cooler (average 10°C) and relatively wet. The dry season lasts
six months. In Cap Bon, the maritime influence results in less temperature
fluctuations than in Testour/Medjez el Bab, which lies inland.  Rainfall in
Cap Bon averages 525 mm as against 425 mm in Testour/Medjez el Bab, and
450 mm in the Lower Medjerda Valley, although annual variations are wide,
varying from 280 mm to 840 mm.  Potential evapotranspiration in each area
amounts to about 1,300 mm and irrigation is a prerequisite for high yields.
During summer the wind velocity is greater than 4 meters/second for 17% of
the time but sprinkler irrigation is possible with adequate windbreaks.
Further climatic data are tabulated in Annex 1, Table 1.
3.10      Soils.  Soils in the areas to be irrigated were divided into four
categories in a recent soil survey carried out by the Soils Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Classes I and Il, representing lands which are
capable of good yields of a wide variety of crops, cover 64% of the project
area while the remainder (36%) are Classes III and IV, representing compacted
or water logged lands with subsoiling or drainage requirements.
3.11      Water Resources.  The Medjerda River originates in Algeria where
approximately 20% of its total basin of about 26,300 km2 is located. The
river's catchment lies mainly in northwestern Tunisia, where rainfall is
heaviest, and runs to the Gulf of Tunis. The average annual water volume
is 950 Mm3 at Medjez el Bab. Recorded flow of the Medjerda River has varied
between 1 m3/sec and 3,360 m3/sec. Between 1929 and 1975, nine major floods
occured in the Medjerda river. In summer, water salinity is high, 3.0-3.5
gram/i at El Aroussia, while in winter quality is significantly better with
a salt content of only 1-1.5 gram/l. Limited water availability during the
summer months especially in July and August, and the high salinity content
(Annex 2) are the constraining factors for extension of the irrigated area.
In Cap Bon, groundwater and three small reservoirs (total capacity 7 Mm3) are
used mainly for citrus plantations and vegetable crops. Groundwater exploita-
tion has been estimated at about 20 Mm3/ year. The aquifers are presently
overused due to over-expansion of citrus plantations and to unfavorable
hydrology in the past decade.



- 7 -
C. Land Holdings
3.12      Land reform legislation, adopted in 1963, and amended in 1971,
provides the framework for land reform and consolidation in areas decreed
as "public irrigation areas" (perimetres publics irrigues) (Annex 3). Maxi-
mum and minimum holding sizes are specified for each area: in the Central
Medjerda Valley maxima have been 50-64 ha. Provision is made for compensa-
tion in cash and for exchange of land to accommodate land redistribution.
Fragmentation is discouraged by prohibiting subdivision of holdings of less
than 4 ha. The legislation also provides for a contribution by the land owner
towards the public investment. This may be paid in cash (averaging D 80 per
ha over 10 years at 5% interest in existing schemes) or in land: payment in
land is compulsory for holdings exceeding 50 ha. Progress was made in carry-
ing out the planned land reform of public irrigated areas and about 70% of
the planned area for the application of land reform in the Fourth Plan was
achieved. The agricultural lands in the Sidi Salem Project area have not yet
been decreed as public irrigation areas, and arrangements for carrying out
land reform would be included in the project (para 5.14).
3.13      Out of the 16,600 ha that would benefit from the project, 84% are
privately owned while the remaining 16% are State Farms and Farmer Coopera-
tives managed by the Office for State Land Management (OTD). In the private
sector, small and medium sized farms predominate. About 96% of holdings in
the Cap Bon area and 89% in Testour/Medjez el Bab are less than 10 ha.  There
are only a few large farms exceeding 60 ha in the two subproject areas; they
represent 1% of the owners and about 13% (2,200 ha) of the total area (See
Annex 3). In the citrus plantations area, land holding is characterized by
a large number of small orchards (average 3 ha). Land reform and land con-
solidation (see para. 5.14) would affect land tenure in the private sector
but the status and size of State Farms and Farmer Cooperatives would remain
unchanged, as they are expected to play an important role in the introduction
of new crops and technology.
D. Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields
3.14      Much of the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject (5,200 net ha) is now
dry farmed, for the most part with wheat (41%), vetch oats (15%) and legu-
minous crops (5%). Another 13% of the land is under orchards. Only 4% is
irrigated with individual pumping stations and cropped in summer and winter
vegetables. The remaining 22% is fallow. Yields are low, depending as they
do on scanty and irregular rainfall, and only minor increases can be expected
without irrigation. Livestock graze on the fallow land, but the nutrition
afforded is poor and livestock quality suffers accordingly. In the Testour/
Medjez el Bab area, most of the small owners are currently subsistence farmers.
Medium and large farmers often have quite good technical ability and know
how.



- 8 -
3.15      The Cap Bon Subproject area (5,400 net ha) is similar to that of
Testour/Medjez el Bab. About 17% of the area, however, is planted in vine-
yards, mostly old and low producing. Irrigation is confined to the northern
and eastern parts of the subproject where individual wells and pumping stations
support cultivation of summer and winter vegetables. The area suffers gener-
ally from high water salinity and a declining water table, factors which
together make it difficult to attempt the introduction of better agricultural
techniques and additional inputs.  In the small vegetable farms of this
Subproject (Soliman area) farm practices are good and the technical level of
the farmers is quite high. Large farms, however, are generally poorly main-
tained and low producing, particularly in the Grombalia area.
3.16      The Citrus Plantations area (6,000 net ha) is located in Tunisia's
most important citrus producing region. It is mainly planted in the excel-
lent Maltese variety of oranges. Currently, potable water surpluses are
expected to be used for irrigation of the area, but by 1981 these will be
withdrawn entirely. As a result, the need will increase for new sources of
irrigation water to maintain production at its present levels. Current
average crop production for the three areas is shown in Annex 1.
E. Marketing and Cooperatives
3.17      Marketing of most agricultural products in Tunisia is in the hands
of numerous private traders. Some of these traders are organized into coop-
eratives, but most of them operate individually. Vegetables and fruit for
export are usually graded, packed and exported through cooperatives although
increasing amounts are processed in private factories. Milk is sold either
to the Tunisian Milk Company (STIL) or to industrial vendors while livestock
is sold by farmers in local markets mostly to independent butchers. The
Government controls the prices of sugar beet (bought exclusively by a state
factory in Beja), wheat and olives. Retail mark-up on all foods is Government
controlled. The milk price was set for a long time at a low and unattractive
level (65 millimes per liter) but in January 1976 Government increased the
price to 90 millimes per liter; this measure gives dairy farming the necessary
impetus for growth. Despite yearly and seasonal variations, the fruit and
vegetable prices are currently attractive on the local market; they reflect
the high growth of urbanization and tourism. However, in the past few years,
declining real agriculture prices and increasing distortions between domestic
and world prices have been causes for concern. The Bank is encouraging the
Government to give more attention to the role of a price policy geared to
future agricultural development, and marketing studies are being undertaken
under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
F. Agricultural Institutions
3.18      The Ministry of Agriculture has overall responsibility for agri-
cultural development; its Directorate for Studies and Main Hydraulic Works



- 9 -
(DEGTH) is entrusted with the maintenance, operation and supervision of dams
and major hydraulic works. At the project level, several special offices or
semi-autonomous public agencies operate under the authority of the Ministry of
Agriculture; they are responsible for extension, for the management and main-
tenance for the irrigation network, and, in some cases, for its construction.
The Office of the Development of the Lower Medjerda Valley and Public Irriga-
tion areas (OMVVM-PPI) is the most important of these agencies. Its organiza-
tion is adequate for present needs, although under the project one new direc-
torate would be added to serve the Testour/Medjez el Bab area and the existing
Cap Bon Directorate would be reinforced.
3.19      The Ministry of Agriculture research stations located in or near the
project area are sufficient to handle both livestock production and the range
of crops to be grown under the project. Agricultural training is adequate
and average annual output of personnel from existing national institutions is
sufficient to meet project needs (Annex 1). Agricultural training capacity
at the post graduate and farmer level is, however, insufficient and OMVVM-PPI
staff will be given training in connection with the project.
G. Credit
3.20      The major credit sources for the agricultural sector are BNT and
the Local Mutual Credit Banks (CLCM). Other sources are commercial banks and
local storekeepers. OMVVM-PPI and various government agencies grant credit
in kind, as part of an input package (seeds, fertilizers etc.) for a number of
crops and also provide mechanization services. Investment credit for agricul-
ture is provided in large part by the Government budget through funds allocated
to the various agencies and to the Special Fund for Agricultural Development
(FOSDA). FOSDA funds are used for direct investment grants and for loans to
small and medium-sized farmers; they are channelled through BNT.
3.21      Access by small farmers to short term and investment credit has been
limited by loan security requirements and reluctance of BNT to develop a small
farmers' lending program. In addition, subsidized interest rates and low
recovery rates have been general problems in the agricultural sector. In the
framework of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project Government agreed to: (i)
review its credit institutions and policy; and (ii) in the light of the review,
draw up an agreement with the BNT on credit conditions which would be applied
for the needs of the Project. While completion of the policy study has been
delayed, some progress was made in 1976 with respect to agricultural credit
policies under a Second Agriculture Credit Project (Loan 1340-TUN): lending
policies and procedures for the various types of credit extended by BNT and
FOSDA were improved; a major step towards unified interest rates applying to
agricultural investment credit was taken when investment credit rates for
commercial farmers were agreed at 7% and that of small farmers at 6%. In
addition, Government has recognized the need to reduce the number of credit
institutions serving the agricultural sector and to improve coordination among
them.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The Project, the first phase of the execution of the Water Master
Plan for Northern Tunisia, comprises the construction of the Sidi Salem Dam
to control and re gulate the Medjerda River and to generate and distribute
electric energy. Associated major works include a main carrier canal to
convey water for drinking and irrigation to the populous and productive areas
of greater Tunis and Cap Bon. The project also includes provision of irriga-
tion and agricultural development (10,600 ha) and improvements of irrigation
water supply (6,000 ha) in high potential areas. Some of the many government
agencies and entities involved in the multipurpose project would be strength-
ened by reorganization, by provision of training and consultants and by
procurement of needed maintenance equipment.
A. Project Works
4.02      The Project works would comprise:
a)  The Sidi Salem rockfill dam and storage reservoir with a
capacity of 550 Mm3, and relocation of railroad, road and
potable water pipes;
(b)  A 25 MW hydropower plant;
(c)  126 km of an Interconnection Canal for conveying water to
the Tunis and the Cap Bon areas;
(d)  Irrigation, drainage and road networks, land preparation
and windbreaks to serve an area of 10,600 ha, divided into
two separate subprojects: Testour/Medjez el Bab (5,200 ha)
and Cap Bon (5,400 ha); and
(e)  Rehabilitation works for 6,000 ha of citrus plantations in
the Cap Bon area and provision of a tertiary underground
distribution network for 935 ha to complete the irrigation
network.
The project would also provide buildings, housing, and equipment for the
extension service and for operation and maintenance of the items mentioned
above, as well as three milk collection centers. Consultants would assist
with carrying out water development and policy studies and with the design,
tendering and supervision of construction of project works. Training for
project personnel would also be provided. Major features of the project's
components are described in detail in Annex 4 and summarized below.
4.03      Sidi Salem Dam and Associated Works.  The Sidi Salem Dam would be
located on the Medjerda River, 10 km upstream from Testour, and would be a
rockfill structure, 57 m high above the river bed with a crest elevation at



- il -
122 m (Map IBRD 12232). It would be constructed with a clay core. The dam
would comprise a cofferdam, a precofferdam, an emergency spillway and two
diversion tunnels. Storage of the flood waters by the reservoir was con-
ceived to reduce the 100-year flood (3,360 m3/sec) entering the reservoir to
a maximum of 1,200 m3/sec downstream. To irrigate the 16,600 ha and supply
the potable and industrial water planned for the first phase of the Water
Master Plan, as well as to meet irrigation requirements of the Lower Medjerda
Valley, the water level of the reservoir would initially be at a maximum eleva-
tion of 105 m, which corresponds to a storage capacity of 370 Mm3. For the
second phase of the Water Master Plan, when an additional area would be
equipped for irrigation, following consultation with the Bank the reservoir
would be filled to its maximum operating level of 110 m, corresponding to a
total storage capacity of 550 Mm3.
4.04      Resettlement and Relocations.  An estimated 6,000 ha and 700 houses
(3,500 people) would be submerged by the Sidi Salem Dam and Reservoir. Govern-
ment's plans for compensation and resettlement of these families have been
reviewed and consist of (i) compensation of private lands and houses for a
total amount of D 4.7 million, averaging D 6.735 (US$16,160) per family, or
resettlement of farmers in nearby State lands and (ii) construction of new
village infrastructure which would be provided by Government under its Rural
Development Plan. Construction of the Sidi Salem Reservoir would also submerge
27 km of the Tunis-Algiers railroad line, 6 km of roads and 13 km of a potable
water supply pipeline which will be relocated under the project. The railroad
relocation would reduce by 3 km the most traveled section between Beja and
Tunis (Map IBRD 12232).
4.05      Hydropower Plant.  A power plant for peak demand would be located
at the upstream toe of the dam. A Kaplan turbine, rated at maximum 25 MW
for a minimum net head of 25 m and a flow of 94 m3/sec, would be connected
to the existing 90 KV network and would generate some 40,000 MWh annually.
4.06      The Medjerda-Cap Bon Interconnection Canal.  The Interconnection
Canal which would extend from the El Aroussia diversion to the Cap Bon area
would have a total length of 126 km (IBRD Map 12236). The canal would be
concrete-lined to reduce percolation losses and automatic constant downstream
water level gates and overflow structures would be installed throughout the
canal system to regulate the flow.  Two relift pumps with a total installed
power capacity of 5,200 KW would be required to pump water from the canal's
lower level to its upper level.
4.07      The Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon Subprojects.  Selection of
the irrigation methods was based on such factors as natural topographic con-
ditions, land tenure, cropping patterns, frequency of wind, and economic cri-
teria. Furrow irrigation and low head pressure were selected for the Cap Bon
Subproject (IBRD Map 12233) which has regular slopes and small holdings and is
planted mainly in vegetables and fruit trees. Sprinkler irrigation was
selected for the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject (IBRD Map 12235) which has
irregular slopes, since land leveling required for furrow irrigation would
have been too expensive. For both Subprojects underground pipes with hydrants
or turnouts were selected. The diameters of the pipes were determined from
standard hydraulic and economic computations.



- 12 -
4.08      Surface drainage facilities would be required for both Subproject
areas mainly to protect crops from excess surface water and to ensure that
the highest water table level would not rise above 1.0 m below surface. The
total length of the drainage network would be about 125 km for the Testour/
Medjez el Bab area and 400 km for the Cap Bon area. Land preparation would
include subsoiling and removal of thorny shrubs. Small gullies and minor
topographic irregularities would be filled. In the Testour/Medjez el Bab
area windbreaks would be included to reduce evaporation, facilitate a uniform
distribution of water, and permit the assumed irrigation efficiency. In the
Cap Bon area, such crops as fruit trees and vegetables would need wind pro-
tection.
4.09      About 95 km of gravel roads and 670 km of farm roads would be built
in Testour/Medjez and Cap Bon to accomodate the increase in heavy traffic du-
ring the sugar beet and fruit harvest. Roads surfaced with gravel available
locally would be built to all pumping stations. The width would vary from 4 m
to 8 m depending on projected use.
4.10      Rehabilitation Works for Safeguard of Citrus Plantations.  To re-
place a temporary potable vater supply feeding about 6,000 ha of existing
citrus plantations (para 4.15), two intakes and associated pipelines would be
constructed on the Medjerda-Cap Bon Interconnection Canal to bring water to
two pumping stations (Map IBRD 12234). The pumping stations would feed the
existing irrigation network through two regulating pressure basins at Bezirk
and Sidi Toumi. A low pressure underground tertiary network covering 935 ha
would be included in the project to complete the irrigation network.
4.11      Power Supply Works.  Provision of power to the pumping stations of
the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject and of the citrus plantations area would
require construction of power lines including 20 km of 30 KV, 9 km of 90 KV
and three transformer posts.
4.12      Buildings and Housing.  The project would provide buildings for
operation and maintenance activities and housing for OMVVM-PPI's personnel
required to live at Testour and Medjez el Bab. Three milk collection centers
would be constructed, including standard storage and cooling facilities to
facilitate marketing of the increased milk production.
4.13      Equipment and Machinery.  The project would provide equipment and
vehicles for operation, maintenance, construction, supervision, on-farm devel-
opment and extension services. A detailed list of equipment required is shown
in Annex 5.
B. Water Demand, Availability. Quality and Rights
4.14      Water Demand.  Allowing for effective rainfall, types of crops to
be grown, and the projected cropping intensity (128% for the Testour/Medjez
el Bab and 137% for Cap Bon), the gross average annual water requirements are
estimated at about 7,545 m3/ha or 50 Mm3/year for Testour/Medjez el Bab and



- 13 -
at 7,600 m3/ha or 57 Mm3/year for Cap Bon. The overall efficiency of the
project's irrigation system was estimated at 68% (75% for sprinkler irriga-
tion and 62% for surface irrigation), (Annex 2).
4.15      The water requirement for the citrus plantations is estimated at
8,500 m3/halyear or about 51 Mm3/year. Today only a part of this volume is
available from: (a) local sources (wells and reservoirs) which can provide
about 21 Mm3; and (b) a potable water supply pipeline operated by SONEDE.
After 1981 the latter supply will, however, be entirely used by SONEDE to
meet the urban requirements of the Hammamet-Nabeul area. About 30 Mm3 of
water would therefore be required from the project to satisfactorily irrigate
the citrus plantations.
4.16      It is estimated that, after completion of the Sidi Salem dam, about
190 Mm3 would be allocated annually from the reservoir to serve the irrigation
needs of the 32,800 ha of the "Minimum Plan" to be irrigated in the Lower
Medjerda Valley.
, 4.17`      An estimated demand of about 100 Mm3 for potable and industrial
water, by the year 2000, is presented in Annex 6.
4.18      Taking into account a 10% conveyance loss in the Interconnection
Canal, the overall water requirements downstream of the Sidi Salem Reservoir
are estimated at 550 Mm3 (Annex 2).
4.19      Water Availability.  An existing hydrological model carried out by
ORSTOM in 1972 was updated at the beginning of 1977. This new model has
simulated flows of the Medjerda River and its tributaries and operation of
the Sidi Salem Reservoir taking into account: (i) the water requirements for
the Bou Heurtma irrigated areas; (ii) the potable water supply requirements
of the Tunis, Cap Bon and Sousse areas; and (iii) the water available from
the Mellegue Reservoir. Some simplifying assumptions were made to the con-
straints of the potable water supply to take into consideration the proposed
construction of the Djoumine Dam which was not included in the existing
simulation model. The results indicate that (i) the Sidi Salem dam would
greatly improve the availability of summer irrigation water to the Lower
Medjerda Valley; (ii) without the Sidi Salem Reservoir the 18,000 ha of the
Bou Heurtma area would be seriously in deficit; and (iii) with the Sidi Salem
Reservoir no deficit would occur except one in 20 years. In that year there
would be water shortage with a deficit of 60% in the requirements for the
Minimum Plan, the Testour/Medjez el Bab, Cap Bon and Citrus Plantations
areas, which is considered acceptable.
4.20      Water Quality.  With the present regime of the Medjerda River, the
salinity at El Aroussia reaches 3 to 3.5 gram/l in summer. Without the project,
salinity levels in the river would be raised further by two factors: (i) re-
turn of drainage waters from the 32,800 ha to be irrigated under the Minimum
Plan and (ii) diversion of 95 Mm3 of fresh waters (0.4 gram/l) from the Kasseb
and Ben Metir Reservoirs to the Gdir el Goulla Reservoir to supply potable
water to the Tunis urban area. It is estimated that although the presence of
triassie rock formation in the reservoir area may increase the salinity of the



- 14 -
water in the Sidi Salem Reservoir, the overall effect of the reservoir would
be to reduce the average annual salinity of the river to a maximum of 1.9
gram/l (Annex 2). This level would still be too high for potable water supply
requirements and a mixing with fresh water from other reservoirs is foreseen
(Annex 6). On the other hand, the quality and the quantity of the Medjerda
water, after implementation of the project, would significantly increase the
irrigation potential of the Lower Medjerda Valley (Annexes 7 and 19). Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that Government (i) would continuously
monitor the quality of the waters stored in the Sidi Salem Reservoir and (ii)
would consult with the Bank before elevating the maximum water level in the
reservoir from 105 m to 110 m.
4.21      Water Rights and Pollution.  Although approximately 20% of the
catchment of the Medjerda River is located in Algeria, the annual average
volume of 950 Mm3 water recorded at the Medjez el Bab Station compared with
the average annual flow of about 130 Mm3 at the border indicates that the
bulk of water required for filling the reservoir originates in Tunisia and
that even if the total water supply from Algeria were cut, the Sidi Salem
Project would not be adversely affected (Annex 2).
4.22      Two potential sources of pollution have been identified one in
Algeria, the other Tunisia. A cellulose plant has been in operation for four
years on the Upper Medjerda River in Algeria. No deleterious effects on water
quality in the Medjerda River have been observed from the plant waste water
discharge. The Tunisian Government has informed the Algerian Government of
its intention to implement the Sidi Salem Project; problems of water supplies
and pollution are being discussed bilaterally. Government confirmed at nego-
tiations that discussions on this matter had taken place with the Algerian
Authorities; further discussions with the Algerian Ministry of Agriculture are
expected in May 1977. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government would monitor continuously relevant water pollution parameters so
that, if required, adequate corrective measures can be taken on time. A time-
table and monitoring program would be presented by Government to the Bank at
the latest on December 31, 1980.
4.23      The other potential source of pollution identified is a sugar beet
factory located near Beja, immediately upstream from the Sidi Salem Reservoir.
A study on possible pollution, which is expected to cover this factory as
well as other sources, would be carried out by DEGTH assisted by consultants.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would retain
consultants, acceptable to the Bank, to advise and assist in carrying out
the pollution study with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and would
review the findings of the study and their implementation with the Bank. Such
study should be completed at the latest on December 31, 1979.
C. Status of Engineering - Consultants Services
4.24      A preliminary design has been carried out for all components of the
project by consultants including Italconsult, Coyne et Bellier, Sofrerail and



- 15 -
DAFECO. Final design and tender documents for the dam and the substructure
of the railroad relocation have already been completed by DGTH and their con-
sultants. These documents were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
The contract for the Sidi Salem Dam and the civil works of the railroad reloca-
tion was awarded to Hidrotehnika (Yugoslav firm) in March 1977 and works are
expected to begin in Mlay 1977. Final design and technical specifications for
the Interconnection Canal are being prepared by engineers from the People's
Republic of China and are expected to be available in September 1977. The
Tunisian Government furnished at negotiations preliminary details concerning
the analysis by the Chinese Authorities of (i) the method and schedule of con-
struction of the Interconnection Canal and (ii) its revised cost estimates.
These documents were found satisfactory. The Chinese and Tunisian Authorities
have agreed that the Canal should be constructed by a Tunisian national enter-
prise with assistance from Chinese technical personnel. The construction
method would be highly mechanized and all Chinese equipment and materials
would be furnished during the first year of implementation. Construction
would start in 1978 and would be completed in 1982. Government wishes the
Bank's staff to follow the entire Project during its execution and would
submit to the Bank adequate information to measure implementation against the
proposed schedule. Final design and tender documents for the superstructure
of the new railroad track and rehabilitation of the existing railroad from
the connection point to Beja Mastouta (Annex 4) are being carried out by the
National Company for Tunisian Railways (SNCFT). Final design for the power
network which will supply all irrigated perimeters with electrical energy
would be carried out by STEG. Final design and tender documents for the
equipment of the power plant have been completed, also by STEG. Final
design and tender documents for the irrigation component would be prepared
by OMVVM-PPI.
4.25      OMVVM-PPI would engage at the latest on December 31, 1977 the ser-
vices of consultants to support their engineering staff in the final design,
preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids, supervision of construc-
tion and commissioning of the Testour/Medjez el Bab facilities (Annex 8).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that their employment would be
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Government also agreed that
DEGTH would engage the services of consultants on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank for the studies of Medjerda Basin water resources and the
optimal utilization of the Sidi Salem Reservoir.
D. Cost Estimates
4.26      The total project cost estimate amounts to US$386 million (D 161
million) including duties but not interest during construction. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$168 million or 44% of the total project
-ost. The cost estimates were based on mid 1975 figures and have been adjusted
to a December 1976 base level. The costs of the dam and associated works are
based on detailed design quantities, or on already awarded contracts, those
fc- the irrigation component on a preliminary design prepared and submitted



- 16 -
in December 1975 by consultants. The cost of the Interconnection Canal
is based on consultant's studies and on preliminary data furnished to the
Tunisian Authorities by specialists from the People's Republie of China.
Physical contingencies from 8 to 10% were allowed for most major items, but
15% was included in the estimate for the railway substructure and only 5%
for some works: the overall physical contingency allowance is 8.9% of the
base cost. Expected price increases except for the Interconnection Canal
were derived by applying the following rates of annual price escalation to
the foreign exchange component: (a) for civil works 12% for calendar year
1977-1979, and 10% thereafter; and (b) for equipment 8% for 1977-1979, and
7% thereafter. For the Interconnection Canal an annual 4% price contingency
was applied for equipment and materials provided from the People's Republic
of China. Price contingencies on local cost for all the project components
vary between 5% and 8%. Overall contingencies amount to US$98 million (about
34% of the total project basic cost). A breakdown of project costs is pre-
sented in detail in Annex 9 and is summarized in the attached table:



- 17 -
Estimated Cost                             Foreign
Item                                          Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total        Exchange
--- (D '000) /l----             --- (US$ '0O0) /l -- 
Dam and Associated Works Component
Civil Works                                 11,965    11,044   23,009        28,716    26,505   55,221           48
Equipment                                    2,086      3,404    5,490        5,006      8,170   13,176          62
Village Relocation and Land Acquisition      4,715          -    4,715       11,316          -   11,316           -
Administration and Consultants                  835     1,170    2,005        2,004      2,808    4,812          58
Total Component                           19,601    15,618   35,219        47,042    37,483   84,525           44
Interconnection Canal Component
Civil Works                                 20,114    12,971   33,085        48,273    31,130   79,403           39
Equipment                                       968     1,453    2,421        2,323      3,487    5,810          60
Land Acquisition                                390         -       390         936          -      936           -
Administration and Consultants               3,228      2,152    5,380        7,747      5,165   12,912          40
Total Component                           24,700    16,576   41,276        59,279    39,782   99,061           40
Relocation. Component
Railroad - Substructure                      3,738      4,159    7,897        8,971      9,982   18,953          53
Railroad - Superstructure for New and
Existing Sections                           2,775      3,000    5,775        6,660      7,200   13,860          52
Road and Potable Water Pipe                  3,278      2,422    5,700        7,868      5,812   13,680          42
Total Component                             9,791     9,581   19,372       23,499    22,994   46,493           49
Irrigation Component
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject             4,458      4,656    9,114       10,700    11,174   21,874           51
Cap Bon Subproject                           4,584      4,366    8,950       11,001    10,478   21,479           49
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations               1,015     1,129    2,144        2,436      2,710    5,146          53
Agricultural Credit and on-Farm Development 2,135         237    2,372        5,124        569    5,693          10
Administration, Consultants and Training        407       994    1,401          977      2,385    3,362          71
Total Component                           12,599    11,382   23,981        30,238    27,316   57,554           47
Total Project Cost
Base Cost /2                                 66,691    53,157  119,848      160,058   127,575  287,633           44
Physical Contingencies (8.9%)                 5,837     4,768   10,605       14,010    11,443   25,453           45
Price Contingencies (25%)                    18,100    12,200   30,300       43,439    29,282   72,721           40
GRAND TOTAL                               90,628    70,125  160,753       217,507   168,300  385,807           44
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.
/2 Base Prices estimated as of December 1976 including D 32.0 million (US$76.8 million) duties and taxes.
Currency Equipment: D 1.00 = US$2.40



- 18 -
E. Financing
4.27      Because of its size the foreign exchange cost of the project would
be financed by various sources, according to the following financing plan:
Foreign             Foreign Exchange
Exchange             Financing Plan
Item                               Cost /1         Sources           Amount
(US$ Million)                    (US$ Million)
Dam and Associated Works             49.9          KfW                28.0
Iran               15.0
Suppliers
Credit            5.1
48.1
Interconnection Canal                47.8          People's
Republic
of China         54.2
Relocation in Reservoir Area         28.1          IBRD                19.4
Agricultural Development             41.1          IBRD                21.2
Arab or OPEC
funds            19.6
40.8
Consultants for Cap Bon,
Studies and Training                1.4          IBRD                1.4
Subtotal                   168.3                             163.9
Gover nnent
contribution      4.4
Total                          168.3                            168.3
/1 Including contingencies; discrepancies due to rounding.
4.28      The proposed Bank loan would help to finance (i) the relocations of
the railroad (substructure), road and water pipeline; (ii) parts of agriculture
development (Testour/Medjez el Bab and Citrus Plantations Subprojects), machine-
ry and equipment for on-farm development; (iii) consultants for preparation of
the final design and tender documents for the Cap Bon Subproject and for studies;
and (iv) training. The total cost of the Bank financed components would be
US$88.8 million or 23% of the total project cost. The proposed US$42 million
loan would finance 99% of the foreign exchange cost of these elements. The
Tunisian Government would allocate the proceeds of the loan, together with the



- 19 -
foreign exchange costs of a part of the on-farm development (US$0.4 million),
and the local costs (US$46.4 million equivalent) to the Ministry of Public
Works, OMVVM-PPI and SONEDE. The term of the proposed Bank loan would be 20
years and the grace period 3.5 years; interest and other charges during the
grace period - about US$14.7 million - would be financed by Government.
4.29      By agreement dated August 1972, the People's Republic of China made
a loan to the Tunisian Government in a principal amount of Yuan 80 million
(about US$39.4 million). Such amount was raised to Yuan 110 million (about
US$54.2 million) by agreement dated February 25, 1977, to finance the total
foreign exchange cost (US$47.8 million) and part of the local cost (US$6.4
million) of the Interconnection Canal. The Iranian Government has made
a loan of US$15 million equivalent to finance part of the Sidi Salem Dam.
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) is considering a loan of DM 70 million
(about US$28 million equivalent) to finance part of the civil works and the
hydro-mechanical equipment of the Sidi Salem Dam and consultants services.
The Tunisian Government has obtained the agreement in principle of Arab and
OPEC sources to provide financing to cover at least the foreign exchange
cost (US$19.6 million) of the Cap Bon Subproject. A suppliers' credit
would finance the hydroelectric part of the project (US$5.1 million).
4.30      Foreign sources, including the proposed Bank loan, would finance
97% of the foreign exchange costs of the project. Government would contri-
bute from its budget US$222 million equivalent for financing of local costs
(US$217.6 million) and of the remaining foreign exchange cost (US$4.4 mil-
lion), or about 57% of the total project cost. (See financing plan in Annex
10). However, additional financing is also expected to be provided by OPEC
sources and could reduce the Government participation.
4.31      A lenders' agreement is expected to be concluded between the Bank
and KfW establishing arrangements for coordination during project execution;
the Bank and KfW loan agreements would include cross effectiveness and cross
default clauses. Submission to the Bank of a construction calendar and plans
designs and specifications, all acceptable to the Bank, for the Interconnec-
tion Canal financed by the People's Republic of China would be a condition of
effectiveness. In addition, the inability of the Government to effect with-
drawals under either the Iranian or the Chinese loan and the absence of other
satisfactory arrangements to ensure payments of project expenditure they were
to finance, would be an event of default under the Bank loan.
F. Implementation Schedule
4.32      The project would be implemented over a seven year period (1977-
1983) in accordance with the schedule shown in Annex 11. All components
financed under the Bank loan would be completed by the end of 1983. Annual
schedule of expenditures for the project components is given in Annex 12.



- 20 -
G. Procurement
4.33      Procurement for the project would be grouped into some 28 contracts
for civil works and equipment totalling about US$246 milion (Annex 13). Each
co-lender would establish procurement rules for the elements financed.  Under
the agricultural credit component, farmers would select and obtain livestock
and materials from Government agencies and local suppliers.
4.34      The proposed Bank loan is expected to finance 15 contracts totalling
US$57.6 million excluding physical and price contingencies; 12 contracts total-
ling US$56.0 million are expected to be tendered on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The other 3 con-
tracts, which are small and not suitable for packaging, would be tendered
locally according to normal Government competitive bidding procedures which
are considered satisfactory; these contracts would not exceed US$2 million as
a whole. Small equipment items such as motorcycles and survey equipment would
also be purchased through normal Government competitive bidding procedures;
the total for all such items would not exceed US$100,000. There is adequate
-competition from local contractors and suppliers for such items. A 15%
preference margin, or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to local manufacturers in bid evaluation.
4.35      The land preparation and windbreaks works, totalling about US$0.7
million are scattered throughout in small parcels and not conducive to con-
tracts. Therefore, they would be carried out by OMVVM-PPI on force account.
H. Disbursements
4.36      The proposed Bank loan of US$42.0 million would be disbursed over
seven years as follows:
(a) 50% of expenditures for civil works for: road and potable water
supply pipe relocations; the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject,
and safeguard of citrus plantations, including power network and
transformer and buildings;
(b) 55% of expenditures for civil works for the railroad substructure;
(c) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods or of the ex-factory
cost of locally produced goods procured through international
competitive bidding for the Testour/Medjez el Bab and Citrus
Plantations Subprojects; and
(d) 100% of the foreign cost of the consultants services and
training under those components financed by the Bank and
also for the Cap Bon Subproject.
4.37      No disbursements would be made against expenditures for agricultural
credit or for works carried out on force account. Disbursement of Bank funds
for the rehabilitation of the citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area would be



- 21 -
conditioned on the beginning of Interconnection Canal construction. Retroac-
tive financing of up to US$200,000 would be provided for expenditures after
January 1, 1976 on consultants' services for the railroad relocation and
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject. Bank loan disbursements are expected to be
completed prior to June 30, 1984. An estimated schedule of disbursement is
presented in Annex 14.
I. Environmental Impact
4.38      The project is free of all environmental and health hazards such
as bilharzia and malaria. Adequate measures would be taken to ensure that
the project would not be affected by potential pollution sources (paras 4.22
to 4.23 and Annex 2).
4.39      Government would provide new village infrastructure in the form
of housing, roads, and houses, water supply, schools and public lighting for
3,500 people whose lands would be submerged by the reservoir.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      Several agencies of the Ministries of Public Works and of Agricul-
ture would be responsible for planning, construction and operation and main-
tenance of project works. A number of other entities (notably SNCFT, SONEDE,
STEG, and BNT) and the Ministries of Finance and of Planning would be involved
in various aspects of the project (Chart No. 16014). Under Ministry of Plan-
ning Chairmanship, a Project Coordination Committee with representation of
all agencies involved would be established to coordinate and review imple-
mentation of the project. It would meet not less than every three months
and is expected to approve quarterly progress reports, review past achieve-
ments and future work programs and budgets for each of the participating
organizations, and make recommendations to ensure coordination between par-
ticipants. The establishment of the Project Coordination Committee with
terms of reference, powers and membership satisfactory to the Bank, would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The existing agricultural
agencies would provide mechanical equipment services, seeds, fertilizers and
chemicals to farmers (details in Annex 1) and would continue to carry out
research. The office for State Land Management (OTD) would be strengthened
to help in implementing the expected cropping pattern and land use.
5.02      The Ministry of Public Works, through DGTH, would be responsible
for the Sidi Salem Dam, road and village relocations, and the Interconnection
Canal. DGTH and its consultants would be responsible for design, contract
award, and supervision of construction for the dam, including civil works for
the power plant , and for railroad, road and village relocations. DGTH has
been responsible for similar works in the past and is currently responsible
for the Bou Heurtma Dam. Since the Bou Heurtma Dam was completed in 1976,



- 22 -
about 50 technicians will be transferred to a new unit at Sidi Salem but
additional expertise will be needed. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that specialists (totalling 360 man-months) would be recruited on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to strengthen the new unit (Annex
8). With this assistance, DGTH will have the necessary expertise and capabil-
ity to carry out its role in implementation of the project.
5.03      The National Company for Tunisian Railways (SNCFT) is fully competent
to carry out its part of the project, i.e., relocation and operation of the
railroad. However, to ensure timely implementation of the railroad reloca-
tion works, SNCFT would employ a full time project manager whose appointment
would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.04      The Ministry of Agriculture through its Directorate of Studies and
Hydraulic Works (DEGTH), would be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the dam and Interconnection Canal, and through the OMVVM-PPI for design,
construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation networks as well as
for agricultural development.
5.05      DEGTH, which undertook the Water Master Plan, would, in addition,
be responsible for the hydrological, pollution and cost recovery studies,
for water allocations as well as for operation and maintenance of the dam and
canal. The Directorate has undertaken the construction and subsequent opera-
tion of several irrigation perimeters (e.g., Badrouna, Lakhmess, Nebhana and
Chiba) and is operating and maintaining the Kasseb, Ben Metir and Gdir el
Goulla dams. DEGTH would establish six units, one each at Sidi Salem and El
Aroussia and four along the Interconnection Canal to maintain and operate
project facilities. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that DEGTH
would provide adequate numbers of competent staff for thé operation and
maintenance of the dam and the canal.
5.06      OMVVM-PPI was established in 1958 and its present organization is
shown in Chart No. 16015. The staff of about 900 is divided between regional
directorates responsible for individual perimeters and support units. One
new directorate would be formed under the project for Testour and Medjez
el Bab, and the existing Cap Bon Directorate would be reinforced (Annex 15).
Additional staff would also be required in the support units. Existing
national training establishments can supply the new recruits needed for this
expansion, but experienced staff must be found without weakening OMVVM-PPI's
other regional directorates. Therefore, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that:
(a) OMVVM-PPI would recruit specialists (totalling 168 man-
months), on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
to support its technical staff and carry out in-service
training;
(b) Members of OMVVM-PPI staff would be selected for training
programs, acceptable to the Bank;
(c) OMVVM-PPI would assign adequate numbers of staff to the
project units (Annex 15).



- 23 -
5.07      OMVVM-PPI and many other agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture
would be involved in agricultural development and would provide mechanical
equipment services, seeds, fertilizers and other inputs to farmers (Annex 1)
and continue to carry out research in the project area.
5.08      The electricity authority, STEG, would be responsible for the
installation, operation and maintenance of the power equipment in the dam
and for the construction of the transmission lines to pumping stations in
the irrigation network.  The water authority, S DE  wo            i   h      of
relocation of the water supply pipe and for distribution of potable suppies
to the Tunis, Cap Bon and Sousse Areas.
B.  Operation, Maintenance and Extension
5.09      As noted above, DEGTH would establish six units to operate and main-
tain the Sidi Salem Dam and Interconnection Canal. Each unit would include
engineers and specialists and would be headed by a chief engineer. A senior
foreman and two operators would be assigned to each pump station while watermen
would operate and maintain canal structures. Major maintenance works would be
done under contracts or by force account using equipment procured under the
project. Maintenance of the Sidi Salem Dam would require special attention
since a failure would cause severe loss of life and property in the Medjerda
Valley. Therefore, assurances were obtained during negotiations that DEGTH
would: (i) make arrangements acceptable to the Bank for an annual inspection
of the dam and its appurtenant structures to detect actual or potential defi-
ciencies; (ii) forward a copy of each inspection report to the Bank for in-
formation; and (iii) take any remedial actions required.
5.10      Government agreed during negotiations to (i) study the Medjerda
Basin Water resources, their optimal utilization and allocation of waters and
investments between different users, and (ii) establish on the basis of the
above study operating rules for the Sidi Salem Reservoir acceptable to the
Bank.
5.11      The two Regional Directorates of OMVVM-PPI responsible for the
Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon Areas would have a division in charge of
operation and maintenance. In addition, farmers irrigation associations would
be formed to operate and maintain irrigation systems beyond each canal outlet,
including hydrants and sprinklers, ditches and farm roads, culverts, etc. An
irrigator, elected by the farmers, would operate systems and be the contact
between farmers and OMVVM-PPI.
5.12      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that OMVVM-PPI would
provide adequate staff for its extension service in each area prior to the
commencement of irrigation. An extension agent would be assigned to each 200
ha in the irrigated farming areas or to each 500 ha in citrus areas: forty-two
agents would be required for this purpose.



- 24 -
5.13      Medium-term credit for livestock, including 3,900 selected heifers
and related stables totalling D 2.6 million (US$6.4 million) would be required
by Project farmers. Project farmers will also require seasonal credit for
farm inputs estimated to total D 2.2 million (US$5.5 million) annually.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that credit would be made avail-
able by Government and extended under conditions acceptable to the Bank.
C. Land Reform
5.14      Under the existing land reform leg.isation (para 3.12), the follow-
ing measures would be taken: (a) issuance of a decree declaring Testour/
Medjez el Bab and the Cap Bon Subprojects public irrigation areas, (b) deter-
mination of maximum and minimum farm sizes, and (c) assessment of farmers'
contribution to the investments in accordance with a land capability survey
(para 5.16). Government agreed at negotiations that the maximum ceiling of
private ownership would not exceed 15 ha for land categories suitable for high
cropping intensity and 50 ha in the other lands of the Testour/Medjez el Bab
area. In the Cap Bon area, the ceiling would encourage the optimum use of
available irrigation waters. The vast majority of beneficiaries is expected
to be small/medium farmers owning farms of 10 ha or less; they represent 89%
of holdings in Testour/Medjez el Bab and 96% in Cap Bon. Land consolidation
would also be undertaken in a timely manner to ensure rational farming of
land. A clearly defined timetable for carrying out the land reform and land
consolidation was submitted to and accepted by the Bank at negotiations (see
Annex 3).
D. Cost Recovery
5.15      The Project includes a study to be undertaken by the Tunisian Gov-
ernment which would allocate Project costs between the irrigation, potable
water and power components, and determine appropriate recovery charges. The
study would be completed not later than September 30, 1978 and its conclusions
presented to the Bank prior to implementation. Since irrigation would not
begin until 1980, continued dialogue with the Government to reach a mutually
acceptable formula for cost recovery is justified.
5.16      Costs would be allocated by the study in an equitable manner, using
a method approved by the Bank. Both the potable water supply and hydropower
components of the Project would pay under agreements to be concluded between
the Government and SONEDE and STEG, of capital, operation, maintenance and
replacement costs allocated to them (Annexes 6 and 16). For the irrigation
component, such study would permit the introduction of a comprehensive system
of progressive contributions under which as much as possible of irrigation
infrastructure investments costs are recovered, consistent with the ability
to pay of Project area farmers. It was agreed, however, during negotiations
that investment contributions would be not less than 100 Dinars per hectare
and that such contribution would be payable in annual installments increasing



- 25 -
progressively during the first five years. Operation, maintenance, and
replacement costs (O & M) would be met through volumetric water charges
equal to or greater than D 6 per 1,000 m3 of irrigation water supplied in the
areas of Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon, and D 12 per 1,000 m3 of water
supplied to the Citrus Plantations (1976 prices). Water charges would be
adjusted at least once every three years to reflect real O&M costs and the
impact of inflation.
5.17      A preliminary analysis of the cost recovery issue is presented in
Annex 16. Joint costs have been arbitrarily allocated to each component (irri-
gation, water supply, power) in proportion to the volume of water which each
is expected to use. On this basis, it is shown that at the present level of
irrigation recovery charges, about 15% of total proiect capital, operation,
maintenance and replacement casts allocated to the irrigation component would
be recovered. This would be considerably be'low the amount which farmers
would be able to pay since charges would recover only 22% of project rent im-
putable to irrigation. Project rent, calculated in Annex 16, is the surplus
of incremental farm income resulting from the project above that required to
assure an adequate incentive for farmers participation in the proect. The
minimum charges agreed to by the Government, quoted in para 5.16, would permit
recovery of 20% of project costs allocated to irrigation, which is equivalent
to 30% of project rent.
5.18      Annex 16 presents a preferred solution in which irrigation water
charges would recover full O&M costs encouraging efficient use of water, and
the contribution to investment would be increased so as to tax away all proj-
ect rent accruing to the largest farms. The investment contribution would be
payable over the life of the project. On the basis of data available at
appraisal, which are expected to be modified during the cost recovery study,
the preferred solution would require an increase in the irrigation water
charge by a factor of 1.7 over the minimum agreed by Government, and a seven-
fold increase in the land betterment levy. About 52% of project costs allo-
cated to irrigation, equal to 77% of project rent, would be recovered.
5.19      The preferred level of recovery charges would permit the majority
of farmers to obtain farm incomes at full project development about equal to
the national average family income.  A small number of large farm families
would obtain incomes considerably greater than the national average despite
recovery of 100% of project rent from them.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.20      Government agencies maintain budgets and accounts which are under
corstant supervision by a "controleur financier" appointed to each agency by
the Ministry of Finance. The present system is satisfactory. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that each Government agency that is responsible
for any part of the project would maintain separate accounts for the project
work with which it is associated and that annual financial statements of these
project accounts would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year in a form acceptable to the Bank. In addition, in order



- 26 -
to facilitate control of water charges, assurances vere obtained that Govern-
ment would cause OMVVM-PPI ta maintain separate accounts, reflecting revenues
from recovery charges and investment, operation, maintenance and replacement
costs of the irrigation system. In addition DAFL would maintain separate
accounts on revenues from farmers' contributions to investments.
F. Monitoring
5.21      In order to measure project implementation against the proposed
schedule, and project performance against project benefits foreseen during
appraisal, it was agreed during negotiations that DGTH, DEGTH, OMVVM-PPI,
SNCFT, STEG and SONEDE would submit necessary information through periodic
reports to the Bank. This would include data on progress of construction of
all physical facilities under various project components, progress in the
procurement of equipment and materials and data on project expenditures.
Information on area brought under irrigation, land reform, cropping pattern,
crop yield and output, farm income and relevant data on operation and main-
tenance cost of irrigation and drainage works would be submitted annually.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01      At full development in 1990, the most important crops of the
Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon areas would be berseem, summer vegetables,
alfalfa, sugar beets, winter vegetables, vetch oats, fruits, wheat, sorghum,
maize and sunflowers, in order of decreasing tonnage. Livestock production
would include 17,340 tons of milk and 2,460 tons of meat (liveweight).
6.02      Without the project, only minor changes are expected in cropping
pattern and yields. With the project, however, berseem, sorghum, alfalfa,
sunflower, maize and sugar beet would be introduced; areas under vegetables
would increase and those under all other crops would decline slightly. Crop-
ping intensity would increase from about 85% to about 133%. Replacement of
local by Friesian herds and adequate feeding and health control programs
would raise production of both milk and meat. At full development, the crop-
ping pattern and output of livestock products are shown below:



- 27 -
Without Project           With Project         Incremental
Crops                 Area    Production       Area    Production       Production
(ha)      (tons)         (ha)       (tons)          (tons)
Wheat                 3,620       5,320         2,200      7,990           2,670
Vetch Oats            2,050       6,150         2,070     12,420           6,270
Legumes                 530         590           -          -               -
Berseem                 -           -           2,110     94,950          94,950
Sorghum                 -           -             860      3,870           3,870
Winter Vegetables       600       7,200         1,480     31,900          24,700
Summer Vegetables       415       6,300         1,880     47,730          41,430
Alfalfa                 -           -             720     43,200          43,200
Sugar beet              -           -             950     39,900          39,900
Sunflower               -           -             360      1,080           1,080
Maize                   -           -             430      1,940           1,940
Deciduous Fruits      1,070       6,420         1,070     10,700           4,280
Grapes                  700       2,450           -          -               -
Area of crop          8,985         -          14,130        -               -
Fallows               1,615
Cropping Intensity      85%                      133%
Milk                              1,760                   17,340          15,580
Meat (liveweight)                   200                    2,460           2,260
Citrus                6,000      60,000         6,000    150,000          90,000
6.03      In the Lower Medjerda Valley reduction in the salinity of the
Medjerda River would contribute towards increased yields of summer crops, but
of greater importance the project would guarantee an assured supply of summer
irrigation water in 19 years out of 20. If the Sidi Salem Dam were not con-
structed it is likely that there would be insufficient water to support the
intensive cropping pattern that has been envisaged in the Government's Mini-
mum Plan for the Lower Medjerda Valley. Details of the probable shortages
that would occur without the project are given in Annex 19, paras 2 to 9.
B. Markets and Prices
6.04      Despite substantial increases in agricultural production in the
Project area, no serious problems are anticipated in marketing of project com-
modities. The incremental output of cereals, sugar beet, sunflower, meat and
milk would help to substitute for imports. Most of the incremental produc-
tion of fruits and vegetables (fresh or processed) would be absorbed in the
domestic market which is growing rapidly due to urbanization, rising consumer
ncomes and tourism demand.  Processing facilities, particularly for vege-
tAbles and sugar beet, are operating at low capacity because of shortage of
raw materials and no additional plants need to be constructed. About 25%



- 28 -
(22,500 tons) of the incremental production of citrus is expected to be
exported. Despite growing supplies of citrus fruit on European markets,
marketing difficulties are not expected (Tunisian maltese oranges are much
appreciated on export markets).
6.05      Two sets of prices for agricultural commodities have been used for
project appraisal, one for economic analysis and the other for financial ana-
lysis of farm budgets and farmers income. For economic analysis, tradeable
commodities have been valued at international prices as defined and projected
by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Division (EAPD) for 1985 in
1976 constant US dollars adjusted to a farm gate basis. Prices of produce
which are not included in the EAPD list of commodities are mission estimates
of projected border prices. For financial analysis, all commodities have
been valued at 1976 current farm gate prices including subsidies. The two
sets of prices are given in Annex 19, Table 2.
6.06      The economic benefit from potable and industrial water supply made
available by the project has been estimated by deducting distribution and
treatment costs from the average tariff paid by consumers for drinking water
(Annex 6).  Electricity benefits have been based on the tariff also (Annex 19).
C. Producer Income
6.07      Seven farm budgets have been prepared to show the project's impact
on farm income (Annex 16).  Of the farm models selected, four are in Cap Bon
and three are in the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject area. These mo.els
represent households which derive their incomes entirely from crop and live-
stock production. Distribution of farm income among project farm families
would be as follows (Annex 16):
Percentage of
Percentage                                                          Project Farm
of Farm                                                             Income Accru-
Families      Present Situation       With Project Situation        ing to Croup
48          Below absolute          Above poverty level up            34.7
poverty level           to 30% above present
average GNP
48          Above absolute          Present average GNP up            51.9
poverty level, be-      to 2.5 times present
low present aver-       average GNP
age GNP
4          Average GNP up to       2.5 to 7 times present            13.4
twice average GNP       average GNP



- 29 -
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.08      Due to its multipurpose nature, the Project would give rise to several
quite different types of benefits, principally agricultural. These would result
in part from equipping new areas for irrigation (Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap
Bon); but the Project would also provide an assured supply of summer irrigation
water, which would safeguard existing citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area,
and would enable the intensive cropping pattern which is planned for the Lower
Medjerda Valley to be realized without the risk of serious water shortages in
dry years. The resulting production would raise farmers' incomes, and increase
family and hired employment. An increase in volume and greater regularity in
supplies of citrus and off-season fruits and vegetables partly for export should
follow. Together with reduced import requirements of sugar beet, oilseeds and
dairy products, these should enable Tunisia to balance its agricultural exports
and imports in years of low rainfall as well as in years of favorable climatic
conditions.
6.09      Apart from agriculture, the Project would provide 100 Mm3 of water
for potable and industrial use, equivalent to nearly 40% of the estimated total
requirements of Northern Tunisia by 1995. Power benefits would be smaller and
would amount to 40 GWh per year for peak power requirements. The 25 MW
generating plant would provide about 15% of the increased capacity required
over the next decade.
6.10      The main beneficiaries of the agricultural component of the Project
would be about 8,000 farm families, of whom 48% would be at present in the
target population, including:
(i) In the Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon areas, about
2,600 farm families mostly operating farms of less than
10 ha and benefitting from land reform or land consolidation.
(ii)  In the Citrus Plantation area, about 1,650 growers with an
average of 3 ha of orchards.
(iii)  In the Lower Medjerda Valley, about 3,800 farm families
benefitting from an assured supply and improved quality of
summer irrigation water.
(iv)  Full time employment is also expected for 5,700 workers
mainly on the State Farms and Farmer Cooperatives.
The cost of irrigation per family for the above beneficiaries would average
approximately US$13,700. Costs are calculated net of taxes, subsidies and
price contingencies and consist of that part of Project costs allocated to the
irrigation component on the basis of the percentage of water used by that
component.
6.11      Of the other Project components, potable water would provide a sub-
stantial part of the water supply of some 1.5 million people in Tunis and



- 30 -
other parts of Northern Tunisia. It has been estimated that half of the
project's water supply would be consumed in the Tunis area and half conveyed
by the Medjerda-Cap Bon Interconnection Canal to the Cap Bon and Sousse areas.
The electricity component would provide additional power during peak periods
for rural and urban users.
E. Economic Rate of Return
6.12      The project would be of fundamental importance to Tunisia as the
central component of the Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan, which concluded
that it would be the least cost alternative for meeting Government objectives
of increasing agricultural production and contributing towards meeting the
potable and industrial water supply requirements of Northern Tunisia.
6.13      The economic rate of return (ERR) on the project including all com-
ponents with the exception of power would be 11.1% over a project life of 50
years (11.2% including power; para 6.18). The rate of return would be rather
insensitive to changes in the estimated values or timing of costs and benefits
streams, partly due to the large number of components which make up the proj-
ect. A 10% increase or decrease in agricultural benefits would reduce the
ERR to about 10.5%. A slower rate of growth of demand for potable water (5%
annual growth instead of the 6% assumed) combined with early completion of
the complementary Djoumine potable water reservoir, would reduce the ERR to
10.2%.
6.14      In evaluating the various uncertainties that would affect the Proj-
ect's outcome, the effect of delays in completion of construction of the
Medjerda-Cap Bon Interconnection Canal, has been considered. A two year delay
would reduce the ERR to 10.2%. However, in the event that the canal were not
to be constructed at all, and the Cap Bon, Safeguard of Citrus and Sousse
potable water subprojects not undertaken, then the ERR on the remaining proj-
ect would actually improve to cover 12% due to the heavy investment in the
canal which would be avoided. But in this event the remaining project com-
prising Testour/Medjez el Bab, the Lower Medjerda Valley and potable water
for the Tunis area only, would be much smaller and the potential development
impact of the Project would be correspondingly reduced.
6.15      Because of its considerable size, the question of optimum timing
for the Project has also been considered, to see whether there would be worth-
while benefits from postponing the start of construction of all project com-
ponents by one or more years, and the hydrological simulation model used in
preparation of the Water Master Plan has been revised to take into account
some recent changes. It is concluded from the analysis, which is discussed
in Annex 19 (paras 13-16) that construction should start as planned in 1977,
and that the additional costs to the economy of delaying the project would
outweight any savings from delaying the Project.
6.16      Some direct benefits have not been quantified, among which are those
deriving from flood control. Although river training works have been carried
out on the Medjerda River to protect the plain from floods with a frequency



- 31 -
greater than once in 10 years, the dam would reduce flood flows downstream
to a maximum of 1,200 m3/sec (compared with the 6,700 m3/sec design flood).
6.17      Since the size of the hydropower component would have no effect on
the size of the dam, the justification for its inclusion in the Project is
based on the fact that it would be the least cost way of generating additional
peak period electricity compared with an equivalent size gas turbine plant
up to a discount rate of about 13%. The component would make a positive con-
tribution to the overall Project, but because of its small size would only
raise the ERR from 11.1% to 11.2%. The calculation of economic costs and
benefits of the power, and agricultural components of the project, and the
related sensitivity analysis is discussed further in Annex 19, and that of
the potable and industrial water component in Annex 6.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following main
points:
(a) Village population whose lands would be inundated by the
Sidi Salem Reservoir would be adequately rehoused or ade-
quately compensated (para 4.04);
(b) Government would continuously monitor the quality of the
water in the Medjerda River and the Sidi Salem Reservoir
and would consult with the Bank before elevating the maximum
level in the Reservoir from 105 m to 110 m (paras 4.20 and
4.22);
(c) Consultants acceptable to the Bank would be retained to assist
(a) OMVVM in preparation of final design and bidding documents,
bid evaluation and construction supervision for Testour/Medjez
el Bab and Citrus Rehabilitation Subprojects, and in preparation
of final designs and bidding documents for the Cap Bon Sub-
project; (b) DGTH in preparation of final designs and bidding
documents, bid evaluation and construction supervision for
railroad relocation (substructure); and (c) DEGTH in execution
of hydrological, pollution and water development and policy
studies (paras 4.23, 4.25, 5.02, 5.10);
(d) DEGTH would (i) make arrangements acceptable to the Bank
for an annual inspection of the Dam and its appurtenant
structures, (ii) forward a copy of each inspection report
to the Bank for information and (iii) take any remedial
action required (para 5.09);
(e) Agricultural credit would be made available by Government and
extended under conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 5.13);



- 32 -
(f)  Maximum ceiling of private ownership would not exceed
15 ha for land categories suitable for high cropping
intensity and 50 ha in the other lands of the Testour/
Medjez el Bab area; in the Cap Bon area, the ceiling
would encourage the optimum use of available irrigation
waters - land reform would be implemented according to
the timetable agreed upon at negotiations (para 5.14);
(g) Under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an
irrigation infrastructure cost recovery policy study
would be carried out and submitted to the Bank, propos-
ing a comprehensive system of progressive investment
contributions based on the repayment capacity of farmers
and permitting the maximum possible recovery of Project
investments. These payments will be at least D 100 per
hectare. Irrigation water charges at a rate of at least
D 6 per 1,000 cubic meters in the new irrigated areas and at
least D 12 per 1,000 cubic meters in the Citrus Plantations
area would be applied and would be revised, in agreement with
the Bank, at not more than three year intervals (paras 5.14
and 5.16);
(h) The Bank and KfW loan agreements would include cross effec-
tiveness and cross default clauses. The inability of the
Government to effect withdrawals under either the Iranian or
the Chinese loan and the absence of other satisfactory arrange-
ments to ensure payments of project expenditure they were to
finance, would be an event of default under the Bank loan
(para 4.31).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(a) Effectiveness of the KfW loan (para 4.31);
(b) Submission to the Bank of a construction calendar and plans,
designs and specifications, all acceptable to the Bank, for
the Interconnection Canal (para 4.31);
(c) Establishment of the Project Coordination Committee with terms
of reference, powers and membership satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.01);
(d) Appointment of a project manager by SNCFT (para 5.03).
7.03      Disbursement of Bank funds for the rehabilitation of the Citrus
Plantation Component would be conditioned on the beginning of construction of
the Interconnection Canal.
7.04      With the agreements reached the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$42 million, repayable over 20 years with a 3 1/2 year
grace period.
May 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Agricultural Development
General
1.        Out of 9 million ha of land in Tunisia suitable for agriculture,
range and forest, about 5.3 million ha, including 1.3 million ha under peren-
nial crops, are cultivable. Of this, 220,000 ha are potentially irrigable of
which only 132,000 ha are now equipped for irrigation. The Medjerda River is
the country's main water course. The agricultural component of the Sidi Salem
Multipurpose Project aims at:  (i) irrigating about 10,600 net ha of addi-
tional land in two Subprojects: Cap Bon (5,400 ha) in northeast Tunisia and
Testour/Medjez el Bab (5,200 ha) located in the Central Medjerda Valley; and
(ii) rehabilitating about 6,000 net ha of citrus groves in the Cap Bon area.
In addition, the project would increase the quantity and the quality of water
available in the Lower Medjerda Valley (approximately 32,800 ha).
Climate
2.        The climate in the project area is Mediterranean with maritime
influence in the Cap Bon area. Average rainfall is 525 mm in Cap Bon, 425
mm in the Testour/Medjez el Bab area and 450 mm in the Lower Medjerda Valley.
The dry season usually lasts six months and supplementary irrigation is
required for most crops in the project area. The rainfall pattern shows
strong variations from year to year, varying from 280 mm (1970) to 840 mm
(1953). Average evapotranspiration amounts to 1,300 mm. Average monthly
temperatures vary from 9.40C in January to 28.50C in August in the Testour/
Medjez el Bab area and from 10.40C to 26.90C for the Cap Bon area (see
Table 1). During summer, the wind speed is greater than 4 m/sec for 17%
of the time.
Soils and Topography
3.        The Soils Division of the blinistry of Agriculture recently carried
out a soil survey (scale: 1:10,000) covering the new areas to be irrigated
(Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon area) using both the US Bureau of
Reclamation system and existing land classification maps (scale:  1:25,000).
Irrigable lands were classified as follows:
Class I: High quality lands capable of producing high yields
for a wide variety of climatically adapted crops at
a reasonable cost.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Class II:   Soils of medium depth, suitable for a variety of
climatically adapted crops, but with lower production
capacity or higher production cost than those of
Class I.
Class III: Shallow soîls with significant deficiencies but ir-
rigable without major work.
Class IV:   Very shallow soils in which a calcareous layer or
water-logging problems require subsoiling or a drainage
network.
4.        The Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject is in the Medjerda plain which
lies about 55 m above sea level and slopes gently 2% or 3% in an easterly di-
rection. In this area, soîls are generally homogeneous, heavy and deep. The
best soils are located on the right bank. The left bank, where soils lie lower,
suffers from drainage and locally salinity problems.
5.        The Cap Bon area lies at an elevation which ranges from 10 to 30 m
above sea level with longitudinal slopes of about 1% and is divided into 3
sectors, Soliman North, Soliman East and Grombalia. The first two sectors are
characterized by sandy soils, suitable for citrus and vegetables, with some
depth limitations. The Grombalia area soils are deeper and heavier but have
some water-logging and locally salinity problems at the north edge. The
soil survey mentioned above classîfied the project area soils as follows:
Class
Subproject                            I           II          III              IV
Testour/Medjez el Bab                 -           64%          35%            1%
Cap Bon                              13%          51%          21%           15%
Before project execution, the Soils Division ls expected to revise the existing
data on the Classes III and IV areas, including 1,800 ha in the Testour/Medjez
el Bab area and 1,900 ha in Cap Bon, with particular attention to the Class IV
lands in Grombalia. For the two Subprojects, land preparation would include
subsoiling and windbreak plantations.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Present and Future Land Use and Yields
(a) Testour/Mediez el Bab Subproject
6.        The Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject (5,200 net ha) is mostly dry
farmed with wheat (41%), vetch oats (15%) and leguminous plants (5%). Summer
and winter vegetables covering 4% of the total area are cropped in small plots
along the Medjerda river and irrigated with individual pumping stations.
Orchards (13% of the total area) include olive trees, apricot, plum and pear
trees, and are often intercropped with cereals or forage. The remaining 22%
is fallow.  Sheep and cattle subsist on fallow land and stubble, supplemented
by crop residues and existing forage crops. About 20% of the cattle herd are
selected Friesian and the remainder are locally bred. Scanty and irregular
rainfall results in low yields, from 0.8 to 2 tons per hectare of wheat
(average 1.3 tons), 0.5 to 1 ton of peas (average 0.7 ton) and 2 to 4 tons of
vetch oats (average 3 ton). Present average annual crop production amounts
to about 2,800 tons of wheat, 196 tons of leguminous plants, and 6,300 tons
of fruits and vegetables. Milk and meat production is estimated at 875 tons
and 94 tons respectively. Without the project (see Table 2), production
of cereals and leguminous plants might increase from 10-20% as a result of
Extension Service efforts. Annual animal production might also increase as
price rises in milk and meat provide new incentives. No major changes, how-
ever, can occur without irrigation. Most of the small owners are currently
subsistence farmers while medium and large farmers often have quite good
technical ability and know how.
7.        With the project, the total area would be irrigated with sprinklers.
As a result, the present cropping would be intensified and higher value crops
like sugar beets, sorghum, and sunflowers could be introduced, partly replacing
cereals and leguminous plants.  Alfalfa, berseem and vetch oats would be grown
for milk and meat production. The production of winter and summer vegetables
(mainly tomatoes for processing) on small family farms would be expanded.
Rotation proposed for different farm types is shown in Table 3. At full
development the cropping intensity would be 128% for the whole subproject.
8.        Yields are expected to increase significantly as a result of irrig-
ation as well as increased inputs and strengthened extension services. The
projected cropping patterns and yields (wheat: 3.8 ton/ha; sugar beets: 42
ton/ha; sunflower: 3 ton/ha; sorghum: 4.5 ton/ha; tomatoes for processing:
35 ton/ha) are expected to be obtained within 7 years after the irrigation
starts. Future yields and production are based on results obtained in the
existing adjacent irrigated areas and summarized in Table 2.
(b) Cap Bon Subproject
9.        The Cap Bon Subproject (5,400 net ha), like the Testour/Medjez el
Bab Subproject, is mostly dry farmed with wheat (28%), vetch oats (14%), and
leguminous plants (5%). In the Soliman North and East Subsectors, farmers
grow summer and winter vegetables (tomatoes, cucurbits, potatoes, peppers) on
about 700 ha, irrigated with individual wells and pumping stations. Salinity



ANNEX I
Page 4
of the water in summer limits summer crops. Orchards cover 8% of the total
area and include citrus, plums, pears and pomegranates often intercropped
with vegetables and fodder on small farms. Vineyards, mostly old and low pro-
ducing, cover 17% of the total area; they are mainly located in State farms of
the Grombalia sector. Cattle subsist on fallow land (17% of the total area)
supplemented by existing fodder and crop residues. About 30% of the cattle
herd are Friesian selected cows. Average yields per hectare are low: 1 ton
of wheat; 0.8 ton of legumes; 12 tons of summer vegetables; 16 tons of winter
vegetables; and 3.5 tons of grapes. Present average annual crop production
amounts to about 1,500 tons of wheat, 250 tons of leguminous plants, and
1,150 tons of vegetables. These figures are not expected to increase under
rainfed conditions and summer vegetable production in the Soliman irrigated
area might decrease as a result of increasing salinity of the wells. In the
small vegetable farms of the Cap Bon Subproject (Soliman area) farm practices
are good and technical level of the farmers is quite high. Large farms,
however, are generally poorly maintained and low producing particularly in
the Grombalia area.
10.       With the project, the Cap Bon Subproject would be entirely irrigated
with a surface system.  The present land use and land tenure patterns, and
easy access to urban consumption centers would combine to intensify cropping
of winter and summer vegetables, of maize, and forage for milk and meat pro-
duction. Rotation proposed for different farm types is shown in Table 4.
Farmers are expected to achieve new cropping patterns within 6 years after
starting to irrigate. At full development the cropping intensity would reach
an average of 138.5% for the whole Subproject. The present fruit plantations
would be improved and the existing old vineyards would be uprooted and re-
placed by more profitable crops. (The Government's policy is to subsidize
such uprootings.)
11.       The quantity and quality of the irrigation water would increase
the present yields of winter vegetables from 12 ton/ha to 22 ton/ha and
summer vegetables from 16 ton/ha to 26 ton/ha.  Within 7 years of the
irrigation start, yields would reach: 3.5 ton/ha for wheat, 6 ton/ha for
vetch oats, 4.5 ton/ha for maize and 45 ton/ha for berseem. Future yields
and production are summarized in Table 2.
(c) Rehabilitation and Safeguard of the Citrus Plantations
12.       In the Cap Bon area, the Government has been attempting ta preserve
citrus plantations (mostly of the excellent Maltese variety - 6,000 ha), which
have been jeopardized by a sharp decline in and an increasing salinity of
groundwater resources. Two small dams (Bezirk and Masri) and several deep
wells have been constructed during the last decade to preserve the plantations
and a surface irrigation network has been constructed in about 5,000 ha in the
framework of a bilateral aid project. Currently, the water availability in
the area is about 4,000 m3 per ha, against the 8,500 m3 per ha, considered
an average need for citrus in this area. Although the potable water company
(SONEDE) is expected to provide water for irrigation from a temporary surplus
existing in the Tunis-Hammamet pipeline, the potable water needs of the
Hammamet region will exhaust this source by 1981. Without the project,



ANNEX 1
Page 5
plantation areas will probably decrease and yields will drop from an esti-
mated 18 ton/ha to about 10 tons. Fruit grade and quality would also decline,
affecting the best fruit, which is exported.
13.       With the project, the citrus plantation would be mainly irrigated
from the Sidi Salem Dam water sources, conveyed through the Interconnection
Canal which would link Al Aroussia to the Cap Bon area. Yields are expected
to reach 25 ton/ha in a few years as a result of sufficient water supply,
increased inputs and strengthened pest control. No new plantations are envi-
saged in the Subproject area.
Inputs
14.       Labor and Mechanization.  Current mechanization of land preparation,
sowing and cereals harvesting would continue in the project area to avoid peak
labor demands and to insure that a second crop could be grown on time. Trac-
tors and farm machinery are available both privately and through several State
Agencies (see para. 17 d). Draft animals would be used on the small vegetable
farms and citrus orchards. All other operations such as weed and pest control
would be done manually through family labor.  Households farming less than 5
ha in the Testour/Medjez el Bab sector and 2 ha in the Cap Bon area would not
require additional labor. Hired labor requirements on larger farms would
depend on the farm size and the subproject; details on the employment situa-
tion in the project area and the labor requirements are given in Annex 18.
15.       Seeds and Fertilizers.  Improved seeds are available through the
Project Authority (OMVVM-PPI) and private merchants.  High yielding Mexican
soft wheat varieties have already been introduced on an experimental basis and
would progressively replace hard wheat. OMVVM-PPI offers credit to encourage
farmers to purchase improved seeds, 30% at sowing and 70% at harvest time.
Sugar beet seeds are provided by the Tunisian Sugar Company (STS) in particular
Kewepoli, Kave-cerpopoly and Kawecta which STS research determined most suit-
able for Tunisia. Forage and vegetables seeds are mainly distributed through
private merchants. No difficulties are foreseen for future seed distribution.
Present consumption of fertilizers (1,150 tons N; 1,045 tons P205; 135 tons
K20) would increase with the project to 1,990 tons N; 3,180 tons P205; and
1,590 tons K O. Fertilizer, like seeds, is available on credit through
OMVVM-PPI and no distribution problems are foreseen. Animal manure is ex-
pected to be used for vegetables and sugar beets, provided through mixed
farming (crop/livestock). Citrus farmers would purchase manure.
Animal Production
16.       Cattle productivity in the project area is currently low because
of the poor level of nutrition and low production potential of local cows.
Selected Friesian, Tarentaise, and Schwitz cows have been introduced in
Tunisia and are progressively replacing locally bred cattle in irrigated



ANNEX 1
Page 6
areas. A Government decision to increase the milk price from D 0.065 per
liter to D 0.090 on January 1, 1976, is likely to boost milk production.
Without the project, whatever animal production increase occurred would be
circumscribed by inadequacy of fodder. With the project, livestock production
would become a major agricultural activity; in the project areas 37% of all
crops in Testour/Medjez el Bab and 33% in Cap Bon would be fodder, permitting
a significant expansion of beef fattening and milk production (see feed
availability, Table 9). The number of cattle would increase from the current
720 cows at Testour/Medjez el Bab and 560 cows at Cap Bon to 3,070 and 2,260
respectively (Tables 5 and 6). The present percentage of selected Friesian
cattle, 20% in Testour/Medjez el Bab and 30% in Cap Bon, would increase to
100% in 10 years for each subproject. Existing artificial insemination
centers would be used for cattle breeding. At Cap Bon, beef fattening would
be an alternative to milk production on farms of less than 2 hectares where
concentration on vegetable production leaves little room for forage. Special-
ists of the Directorate of Animal Production of OMVVM-PPI would supervise the
cross breeding program to maintain equilibrium between production potential
and disease and parasite resistance. Animal health is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Agriculture. The project area is adequately served through
regional offices. The main diseases of cattle are septicemia and piroplas-
mosis. Diseases of less incidence are tuberculosis and black leg. Vaccina-
tion is available against septicemia and black leg. The selected Friesian
vwas introduced into Tunisia a long time ago and heifers are currently produced
in different livestock centers. Therefore no major problem due to climate and
disease control is expected in the project area. Under the project OMVVM is
expected to provide (i) 2,400 selected Friesian heifers to the Testour/Medjez
el Bab Subproject area and 1,500 in Cap Bon, through existing livestock centers
of Ministry of Agriculture; (ii) stables for 3,900 cows; and (iii) 3 milk col-
lecting centers. At full development, the project would increase livestock
production from the current 1,600 tons of milk and 170 tons of beef (live-
weight) to about 17,300 tons of milk and 2,460 tons of beef (Tables 7 and 8).
This level of animal production would represent about 15% of the agriculture
net value.
Agricultural Research, Training and Extension
17.       The agricultural development of the area is influenced by the
research, training and extension facilities available.
(a) Research. The Research Center of Rural Engineering (CRGR) at
Cherfech, the Experimental Station for Vegetable Crops (SEM)
at Manouba, and National Institute for Agricultural Research
in Tunisia (INRAT) at Ariana-Tunis carry out agricultural
research for the area. CRGR has been active for ten years
(originally with UNDP/FAO assistance) covering crop water
needs, fertilizer response, and salt tolerance. SEM, of
which the technical assistance component is subcontracted
to the University of Ghent, emphasizes cultural practices,



ANNEX 1
Page 7
disease control, and varietal research on irrigated vege-
table crops, especially artichokes, tomatoes, and peppers.
INRAT extensively studies all common crops in the area. In
addition, the Tunisian Sugar Company (STS), in coordination
with INRAT and OMVVM-PPI, gives technical assistance to
farmers for sugar beets and carries out field experiments.
These research facilities are adequate for the project.
(b) Training. Under supervision of the Directorate of Agricul-
tural Research, Education and Training, formal agricultural
education in Tunisia is provided at the National Institute for
Agricultural Research in Tunisia (INRAT), various technical
specialized schools, 8 agricultural secondary schools, and 17
professional agricultural training centers. Their average
annual output is 40 agricultural officers, 110 technicians,
350 extension workers, and 1,200 specialized workers.
Training is also provided through training centers for ex-
tension workers at the Saida Research Station for cowmen at
Sidi Thabet, and through a farm machinery and farm management
institute at Medjez el Bab. These training facilities are
adequate for the project, but agricultural training capacity
at the post graduate and farmer levels would be reinforced.
(c) Extension. OMVVM-PPI provides extension services for most
of the irrigated areas in Northern Tunisia. The good results
obtained in the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project in the
Lower Medjerda Valley financed by the Bank show that the
present organization is adequate (see Chart 16015). Extension
Service staff would however be reinforced, both at the central
and regional levels, to meet the project needs (Table 9). In
addition to reinforce its engineering staff and to ensure on-
the-job training of its personnel, OMVVM would engage irrigation
and extension specialists for a total of about 168 man/months.
(d)  Farm Machinery Services.  Farm machinery services are provided
by: Private farmers, OMVVM-PPI, STS and the Central Cooperative
for Agriculture Mechanization (SONAMO). In addition, state
farms have their own machinery. Land preparation and harvest-
ing are already highly mechanized, even on small fields. With
the project, no change is expected to take place in the present
farm machinery services, but OMVVM-PPI agricultural equipment
would be reinforced. Cost of additional machinery is estimated
at D 375,000 (see details in Annex 5).
May, 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Climatic Data
Months
Total
Item                                     Unit                                                                                                                                   Year
J        F         M         A        M         J         J         A         S         O        N         D
Average Temperature                      Co
Medjez el Bab                                        9.4      9.9      12.9      16.1      19.8     25.0      27.6      28.5      24.5      19.7      15.4      10.7
Grombalia a                                        10.4      11.7      13.9      15.5      19.5     24.1      26.3      26.9      24.4      19.6      15.3     12.3
Average Rainfall                         mm
Medjez el Bab                                       67.2     48.2      44.9      35.4      24.2      10.7      1.8       6.8      27.5      47.7      49.5      61.5         425.4
Grombalia /1                                        79.5     61.8      46.3      33.2      20.6       7.5      3.3       7.2      38.5      70.8      73.0      83.1         524.8
Evaporation                              mm
Medjez el Bab                                       46.5      56.0     83.7    111.0    130.2    159.0    186.0    170.5    132.0    108.5            58.9      43.4       1 285.7
Grombalia /L                                        46.5     58.8      83.7    108.0    148.8    171.0    189.1    176.7    147.0    108.5            63.0      52.7       1,353.8
Wind /2
Jendouba /3                                         89.0     74.0      92.0      87.0      87.0     93.0      83.0      85.0      90.0      93.0      94.0      95.0
GrombaliaTi                                         90.0      74.0      85.0     83.0      85.0      75.0      77.0      77.0     83.0      85.0      94.0      90.0
1 Cap Bon.
/2  Wind speed lower than 4 m/sec  as percent of the total hours during a month.
/3  Located at about 75 km west from Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject.
Source: Italconsult Feasibility Study.
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Land Use, Yield and Production
Item                                             Without Project                                         With Pro.lect
Area              Yield   Production                 Area                Yield    Production
(%)        (ha)       (ton/ha)    (tons)            (%)           (ha)       (ton/ha)      (tons)
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subrpoject
Wheat                           40.7        2,120         1.8        3,816             18.2          950         3.8         3,610
Vetch Oats                      19.2        1,000         3.0        3,000             15.7          820         6.0         4,920
Legumes                          5.4          280         1.2          336               -           -            -             -
Berseem                           -           -            -           -               16.5          860        45.0        38,700
Sorghum                           -           -            -           -               16.5          860         4.5         3,870
Winter Vegetables                2.8          150        12.0        1,800              4.4          230        20.0         4,400
Summer Vegetables                2.2          115        13.0        1,495              4.4          230        21.0         4,830
Alfalfa                           -           -            -           -               13.8          720        60.0        43,200
Sugar beet                        -           -            -           -               18.2          950        42.0        39,900
Sunflower                         -           -            -           -                6.9          360         3.0         1,080
Fruit Trees                     12.8          670         6.0        4,020             12.8          670        10.0          6,700
Fallow                            -           865          -           -                 -           -             -            -
Total                         83.1        5,200                                     127.4        6,650
Cap Bon Subproject
Wheat                           27.7        1,500          1.0       1,500             23.1        1,250          3.5         4,375
Vetch Oats                      19.4        1,050          3.0       3,150             23.1        1,250          6.0         7,500
Legumes                          4.6           250         1.0          250              -           -             -            -
Winter Vegetables                8.3           450       12.0        5,400             23.1        1,250         22.0        27,500
Summer Vegetables                5.5          300        16.0        4,800             30.5        1,650         26.0        42,900
Maize                              -           -            -           -               8.1           430         4.5         1,935
Fruit Trees                      7.4           400         6.0        2,400             7.5           400        10.0         4,000
Berseem                           -           -             -           -              23.1        1,250         45.0        56,250
Vineyards                       12.9           700         3.5        2,450              -            -            -            -
Fallow                             -           750          -           -                -            -            -            -
Total                         85.8        5,400                                     138.5        7,480
May 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 3
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject
Cropping Pattern at Full Development
Item                                 Farm Type                     Farm Type
5 ha                          15 ha
-------------(ha)---------------
Wheat                                  1.25                           2.60
Sugar beet                             1.25                           2.60
Berseem                                0.75                           2.60
Sorghum                                0.75                           2.60
Vetch Oats                             0.50                           2.60
Winter Vegetables/1                    1.25                            -
Summer Vegetables/2                    1.25
Sunflcwer                               -                             1.30
Alfalfa/3                               -                              2.60
Fruit Trees/4                          0.65                           2.00
Total                                7.65                          18.90
Cropping Intensity                     153%                          126%
/1  Onions, squash, potatoes.
/2  Tomatoes, cucurbits.
/3  Each year 25% of alfalfa enter the rotation.
/4  Intercropped in the 5 ha farm type.
May 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 4
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cap Bon Subproject
Cropping Pattern at Full Development
Item                                 Farm Type                       Farm Type
(2 ha)                          (8 ha)
Wheat                                  0.50                             1.80
Vetch Oats                             0.50                             1.80
Winter Vegetables-/                    0.50                             1.80
Summer Vegetables/2                    1.00                             1.80
Berseem                                0.50                             1.80
Maize                                   -                               0.90
Fruit Trees/3                          0.15                             0.65
Total                                3.15                            10.55
Cropping Intensity                     157%                            132%
/1  Potatoes, onions, squashes.
/2  Cucurbits, peppers, tomatoes.
/3  Intercropped in the 2 ha farm type.
May 1977



822SLSSJTOIIIS4     1059
Tow.tIrhtdWi   el Bab;  Devot lt of Cattl Btrd Vithout Mud With ZMIct
situ tioni, I                                                                       2             I              -           Y                 6             7              8              9              10
--------_        ----_-------------_---_-------- ________                       ---------------------n    ------- r------------------------- ------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A,  Witoot tch  PBrujt au
1   Seluctud Coua                                 172               177            190           195            198            198            198           198            198            198             198
Mo-tlity  (6%)                               (10)              (11)          (11)           (12)           (12)          (12)           (12)           :12)           (12)           (12)            (12)
Sold  (10 - 12%)                             (17)              058)          (19)           (23)           (28)          (20)           (20)           (20)           (20)          (20)             (20)
Balance                                           145               148            160           163            166            166            166                          166            166             166
Ca      (65%)                                112               115            123            124           129            129                           129            129           129             129
OUg-ht
8dlu ty <127)                                <13)              <14)          (15)           <15)           (15)          (15)           (15)           (15)           <15)           (15)            (13)
Balance                                      99               181            188            112           114            114            114            114            114           114             .114
Bull Calon1   Sold                           (49)              (51)          (54)            56             57            57             57             57             5             57               57
Balance (<eifer-)                            50                50             54             56            57             57             57             57             57            57               57
Murc.Oîcy  <5%.)                              <2)               <2)            <3)           <3)            (3)            <3)           <3)            (3)            <3)            <3)              3
ScIA  (30%)                                  (16)               (6)         (<1)            (18)           (22)          (22)           (22)           (22)          -(22)           <2(2)           (22)
BOul-ce (Onifucu)                                  32                42             35            35             32             32             32             32            32             32              32
Total Clu   uAd Neifers                        177               199            195            198            198            198           198            198            198        -   198             198
2.  Lucallv Bred C.ou                             689               689            689            689           689            689            689            689            689           689              689
l-taîlity  (8%)                              (56)              (56)          (56)           (56)           (56)          (56)           (56)           (56)           (56)           (56)            (56)
Suld (107)                                   (56)              (56)          (56)           (56)          (56)           (56)           (56)           (56)           (56)           (56)            (56)
Bal-nce                                           577               577            577           577            577            577            577            577           577            577             577
Calons (40%)                                 276               276            276            276           276            276            276            276            276            276             276
Yortaiity  (15%)                             (41)              (41)          (41)           (41)           (41)          (41)           (41)           (41)           (41)           (41)            (41)
Balnce                                     235               235            235            2355          235            235            235            235            235           235              235
Sali lalvua SoId                           (117)             (117)          (117)          (117)         (117)          (117)          (117)          (117)          (117)         (117)            (<l)
Balance (lisfeen)                            119               118           118            118           118            118            118            118            118           118              118
b-callcy (<5%)                              (6)                (6)           (6)            (6)            <6)            (6)           (6)            <6)            (6)            (6)             (6)
B.a-n-u- (Helfere)                                112               112            112            112           112            112            112            112            112           112              112
Total Cun  tnd Beifare                          689               689            689           689            689            689            689           689            689            689             689
B W1ith thu Pr-lucc
i. elected Cuna                                   172                190           367            729         1,229          1,871          2,719          3,040         3,442          3,821           3,940
SSnrtality 71                                (10)              (11)          (18)           (36)           (49)          (75)          (109)           (91)          (103)         <114)             (79)
Sold 2                                      (17)              (19)           (37)           (73)         (147)          <224)          (408)          (456)         (585)          (650)           (790)
Baleaun                                           145               160           312         -  620          1,033         1,572          2,202          2,493          2,754          3,057           3,071
Calons 1                                     112                124           239            488           860          1,310          1,958          2,219         2,581          2,980           3,153
Bought                                       -                200            400           500            600            700             -              -             -              -                -
curtality L4                                 (13)              (39)          (70)           (99)          <148)         <161)          (137)         -(155)          (155)         (179)            (157)
Balanc                                       99               285            569            889         1,312          1,849          1,821         2,064          2,426          2,8B1           2,996
Bull lal1e Sold                              (49)             <(5)          (106)          (220)         (391)          (603)          (910)        (1,032)       (12313)        (1,400)         (1,498)
Balance (<eiforn)                            50               230            463            669           921          1,246            911         1,032          1,213          1,401           1,498
-oroalOty 12                                  (2)              (12)          (23)           (27)           <37)           (37)          (27)           (31)           (24)           (28)            (30)
Bvld                                         (3)              (11)           (23)           (33)           (46)          (62)           (46)           (52)          (122)         (490)           (599)
Blance (Onlfnen)                                  45               207      .    417            609            838          1.147            838           949          1,067            883             869
Totn1 Clo   acd HOifecr                         190               367            729        1_229           1.871          2.719        _34             5.942          3.821          3.940           3.90
2.  LocaIly B-ed Coo                               689               689            689           670            514            346            192             -             -              -               -
-octality <07)                               (56)              (56)          (56)           (54)           (41)           (24)          (il)
Su1A                                         (56)              <56)          (75)          (210)         (210)          (200)         (<îi)             -              -              -               -
Balacce                                           577               577            558           406            263            122       -
Caban (40%)                                   276               276           276            268            206           173             96
-octality (15%)                              (41)              (41)           (41)          (40)           <31)           (26)          (11)            -             __
Balance                                     235               235            235            228            175           147             85
Bull Caban Bold                            <117)              (117)         (117)          (114)          (88)           (74)           (43)            _              -              _               -
Balance (Helfuer)                           118                118           118            114             87            73            (42)
MorOtlity (5%)                                (6)               (6)            (6)           (6)            (4)           (3)            -              _              _              -               _
Belenco <Belfeca)                                 112               112            112           108             83             70
Total Con  and HBfaern                          689               689            670           514            346            192
4  Morctlity of CIon Docre...9 fro= 6X to 2%
2  C-o ClllB41 1   ocreuulg f-r  10% to 20%
1e CaloIlg Ic-ul.. itr f-o 65% tc 80%
M2 lorctlity cf Caboes Dccra in  frou 12% to 5%
M- ortolity of Reifore D-cre...iC froa 5% t1 2%
Sourc:  B.ucd on fcuuibility  Pr-pac-ti-o  Study,
May 1977



AMX 1
Table 6
SIDI SALIJ  HLTIPIRIPOSE PRoJIcT
Cap Bon:  Devnloennl cf Cattln Mord With sd Without ProîeCt
Situation                                                                                                                Yesr
O                  I             2              3             4              5              6             7              8              9               10
A. Without the Pro1ect
1.  Selected Cose                           ZIO                215           221            228           232            236            236           236            236            236
Mcrtality (O)                          <13)               (13)          (13)           (14)           (14)          (14)           (14)          (14)           (1 )           (14)             _
Slid (10 - 127)                        (21)               (21)          (22)           (23)          (23)           (23)           (23)          (23)           (23)           (23)             _
Balance                                     176                181            1B6           191            195           199            199            199            I99           199
Calons (65%)                            137                140           144            149           151            153            153           153            153            153
Bought                                  -                  -             -              -             -              -              -             -              -              -
M.rtality  (127)                       (16)               (17)          (17)           (16)           (lB)          (lB)           <lB)           (lB)          (16)           (.8)
Balanc.                               121                123            127           131            133            135            135           135            135            135 
bull cnivr  lad                        (60)               (62)          (64)           (66)          (67)           (68)           (68)          (68)           (68)           (66)
Bela-o  (Hnîfnrs)                       61                 61            63             65            66             67             67            67             67             47-
Mert-lity  (5%)                         (3)                (3)           (3)            (3)            (3)           (3)            (3)            (3)           (3)            (3)
Sold  (30%)                            (19)               (18)          (18)           (21)          (22)           (27)           (27)          (27)           (27)           (27)             -.
Balance (Heifcrs)                            39                 48             42            41             41            37             37             37             37             37
Total Coca aud Htifcrs                    215                221           228            232            236           236            236            236           236            236
2. LcalIly Bred CGon                        460                460           460            460            460           460            460           460            460            460
l-ortality  (876)                      (37)               (37)           (37)          (37)           (37)          (37)           (37)           (37)          (37)           (37)
Sold  (107)                            (37)               (37)          (37)           (37)           (37)          (37)           (37)          (37)           (»7)           (37)             _
Bala.n.                                     386                386            386           386            386           386            386            386            386           386
Calons  (40%)                           184                184           184            184           184            184            164           184            184            164              -
Mortality (15%)                        (28)               (28)          (28)           (28)           (28)          (28)           (28)          (28)           (28)           (28)
Balano                                156                 156           156            156           156            156           156            156            156            156-
Bull Cale    051                       (78)               (78)          (78)           (78)           (78)          (78)           (78)          (78)           (78)           (78) -
Balanor (Btfnra)                        78                 7a            78             76            76             76             76            78             78             78
Mortality  (5%)                         (4)                (4)            (4)           (4)            (4)           (4)            (4)            (4)           (4)            (4)
B alance (.. ifer)`                          74                 74             74            74             74             74            74             74             74            74
Total Ceas and Hicfer-                    460                460           460            460            460           460            460            46_            460           460
B. With tho .reina
1.  sBlcBtcd Cous                           210                231           412            938         1,463          1,874         2,130          2,382          2,706         2,900
l-ortality  /1                         (13)               (14)          (21)           (47)          (59)           (75)           (85)          (71)           (81)           (58)
SBld  a                                (21)               (23)          (41)           (94)         (176)          (225)         (319)          (357)          (460)          (580)
Balan..                                     176                194           350            797         1,228          1,574          1,726         1,954          2,165          2,262
Calvn /3                                137               10            268            628         1,024         1,312          1,534          1,739         2,030          2,320
BouSht                                  -                200            600            500           200             -              -             -              -              -
Mortality /4                           (16)               (42)          (95)          (113)          (49)          (10)         (107)          (122)          (122)          (116)
Balonon                               121                308            773         1,015          1,175         1,207          1,427          1,617          1,908         2,204
Bull Caloca Sold                       (60)               (66)         (119)          (283)         f466)          (603)          (714)         (808)          (954)        1,102
Balan-  (h41f co)                       61               242            654           732            709            604           713            809            954         1,102
mortality /5                            t3)               (12)          (33)           (29)          (2a)           (58)           (21)          (17)           (19)           (22)
Sold                                    (3)               (12)          (33)           (37)          (35)           (30)           (36)          (40)          (200)          442
Balann.  (Beifero)                           55                218            588           666            646           556            656            752           735            638
Total Coca *nd Onlferr          s         231                412            96                                       2.130          2.382         2_706          2_900          2.900
2.  L il  Bond Co                           460                460           460            382            277           193             92
MSrtalicy(  3) (37)                                       (57)          (37)           (30)           (17)          (21)            (8)
Bold                                   (37)               (37)         (175)          (137)         (125)          (125)          (t4)             -                            -
Balance                                     386                386            248           215            135            47        -
Ca-lve  (40%)                           164                184           184            153            138           106             55             _             _              _
M-rtality (157)                        (28)               (28)           (28)          (23)           (16)          (12)            (5)            -             _                              -
Bala-n                                 156                156           156            130           122             94             50
Sull Caban Sold                        (78)               (78)          (78)           (65)           (61)          (47)           (25)           -              _                              -
balance (Onifora)                       76                 78            78             65             61            47            (25)
Mortallty  (5%)                         (4)                (4)            (4)           (3)            (3)           (2)
Balanne (Belfeon)                            74                 74             74             62            52             45       -             -
Total Coca ond Heifera                    460                460            322           277            193             92-
l  M-otnlity et Cocu D-or-ooing fOrn  6% to 2%
/2 Cow Culling uncreaaing fno= 15% te 20%
a Calving Boenanin,g froc 65% to 807.
4tl Moetliry of Cal'ec D-cr-asins fron 12% te 5%
/1  bortnlity of hcif-tr -cr-asing froi  5% to 2%
Source: Based un foaoibilîty P-eparati_n Study.
Koy 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject
Milk Production Without and With the Project
Situation and                                                                                            Year
Type of Cattle                  Unit               0          1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10
Without Project
Selected Cows                 number            145        148        160        163        166        166        166        166        166        166        166
1/head/year       2,000      2,000      2,100      2,100      2,200      2,200      2,200      2,200      2,200      2,200      2,200
ton/year           290        296        336        342        365        365        365        365        365        365        365
Locally Bred Cows             number            579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579
l/head/year       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
ton/year           579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579        579
Total ton/year                                869        875        915        921        944        944        944        944        944        944        944
With Pro-ject
Selected Cows                 number            145        160        312        620      1,033      1,572      2,202      2,493      2,754      3,057      3,072
1/head/year       2,000      2,200      2,300      2,400      2,500      2,700      2,900      3,000      3,050      3,100      3,250
ton/year           290        352        718      1,488      2,583     4,244      6,386       7,479      8,400      9,476      9,984
Locally Bred Cows             number            579        577        558        406        263        122         -          -          -          -          -
1/head/year       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000         -          -          -          -          -
ton/year           579        577        558        406        263        122         -          -          -          -          -
Total ton/year                                869        929      1          1894       2,846      4,366      6,386      7 479                            9,984
Incremental Production
With the Project              ton/year              0         54       361        973      1,902      3,422      5,442      6,535      7,456      8,532      9,040
rD 17
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJCT
Cap Bon Subproject
Milk Production Without and With the Subproject
Situation and                                                                      Year
Type of Cattle                     Unit         0        1       2        3       4        5        6        7       8        9
Without Subproject
Selected Cows                   Number        176     181      186      191     195      199      199     199      199      199
1/head/year   2,000   2,000   2,100   2,100   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200
ton/year     352      362      391     401      429      438     438      438      438      438
Locally Bred Cows               Number        386     386      386      386     386      386      386      386     396      386
1/head/year   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000
ton/year      386     386      386     386      386      386      386     386      386      386
Total ton/year                            738     748      777     787      815      824      824     824      824      824
With Subproject
Selected Cows                   Number        176     194      350      797   1,228   1,574   1,726   1,954   2,165   2,262
1/head/year   2,000   2,200   2,300   2,400   2,500   2,700   2,900   3,000   3,250   3,250
ton/year      352     427      805   1,913   3,070   4,250   5,005   5,862   7,036   7,352
Locally Bred Cows               Number        386      386     308      215     135       47      -        -       -        -
1/head/year   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000          -        -       -        -
ton/year     386      386      308     215      135       47     -        _        _        _
Total ton/year                            738     813   1,113   2,128   3,205   4,297   5,005   5,862   7,036   7,352
_                   _          _                          - :-f 
Incremental Production
With Subproject                  ton/year        0       65     336   1,341   2,390   3,473   4,181   5,038   6,212   6,528
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MDLTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Animal Production - Peed Availability
Item               _ er             0           1          2           3           4          5           6           7           8           9         10
\    ~~~~~~~------------------------------------Forage Units ('OOO)------_-----___________________________________
Testour/Medjez El Bab
Wheat (straw)                        551        640         780         820        812         650         597         722
Vetch Oats (hay)                   1,200      1,375       1,300       1,425      1,600       1,800       2,042       2,460
Leguminous (straw)                    47          38         24           -           -          -           -           -
Berseem (green)                        _        180         595       1,295      2,340       3,525       4,540      4,644
Alfalfa                                -           -        270         900      1,891       3,300       5,400       6,480
Sugar Beet Tops                        -        150         317         450        655         875       1,255       1,315
Fallow                             1.100        800         500           -           -       I-                         -
Total                         2.98        3,183       3.786      4.890       7 298      1015,0      13834      Il 621
Cap Bon
Wheat (straw)                                                           300         324        370         496         648         845         875         875
Maize (straw)                                                             -          12          19         26          36          42          52          52
Vetch Oats (hay)                                                      1,125       1,425      1,933       2,415       2,700       3,015       3,625       3,750
Leguminous (straw)                                                       50          30          10           -          -           -           -           -
Berseem (green)                                                           -         720      1,188       2,592       3,510       4,536       6,600       6,750
Fallow                                                                  900         400        100           -           -           -           -           -
Total                                                             2_375      2.911       3,620       5,529       6.894       8.438      11.152     11&427
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Extension Services Staff Requirements and Annual Cost
Ttem                                           Number       Ratio       Amount        1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984       1985      1986
D/Year      -----------------------------------------(D)------------------------------^--------
Testour and Medez El Bab Subpro-lect
Agriculturists                                   1         4,000        4,000        4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000      4,000
Technicians                                      2         2,400        4,800        4,800      4,800     4,800      4,800      4,900     4,800      4,800
Extension Agents                                16         1,600       26,000        5,000      8,000    16,000    21,000    26,000    26,000    26,000
Office expenditures and transportation
cost                                                                  7.000        3.000      3.000     7,000      7.000      7.000     7.000      7.000
Sub-total                                                          41.800        16.800    19.800    31.800    36.800           41.800     0     41.80
_4p Bon Subproiect
Agriculturists                                   1         4,000        4,000         --         --        --        4,000      4,000     4,000      4,000
Techniciens                                      2         2,400        4,800          --        --         --       4,800      4,800      4,800     4,800
Extension Agents                                20         1,600       32,000          --        __         __       8,000    16,000    24,000    32,000
Office expenditures and transportation
cont                                                                  7. OW                                        3.000      7.000      7.00      7aOW
Sub-total                                                           47.800                                       19.800    31800 o     39,800    47,800
Citrus Reha bilitation l1mntations
Technicians                                      3         2,400        7,200                                _        7,2       7,20       7,20       7,200
Extension Agents                                 6         1,600        9,600          --        --         --        9,600     9,600      9,600      9,600
Office expenditures and transportation
cost                                                                  7.000          --        --         --        7.000       7.000      7.000      0O
Sub-total                                                           23.800                                        23.800    23.800    23.800    23.800. 
TOTAL                                                         113,400        16,800    19,800    31,800   J80400    97,400   105,400   113.4
May 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 11
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Populations
Area      Population       Per Km2
Item                         ha           No.
Testour/Medjez el Bab        5,200           5,000          96
Cap Bon                      5,400           7,600         140
Citrus Plantations           6,000          10,000         166
Lower Medjerda Valley       32,000          23,000           72
Total                                    45,600
May 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Water Demand, Availability, Quality and Rights
Water Demand
1.        Rainfall in the project area averages between 425 mm per year in
Medjez el Bab and 525 mm per year in Grombalia.  Effective rainfall was com-
puted as 75% of gross precipitation during the cropping season (March to
October) and was found to be 151 mm for the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject
and 229 mm for the Cap Bon Subproject. The projected cropping intensity would
be 128% for Testour/Medjez el Bab and 137% for Cap Bon. The crop coefficients
used were based on the crop growth stage coefficient curves adjusted to the
condition prevailing in both Subproject areas. The percentage of daytime
hours as a percentage of the year corresponding to 360, 39' latitude north was
used. Crop water demand was computed:by using the BLANEY and CRIDDLE method
and the methodology is described in "Crop Water Requirements", Paper No. 24
FAO 1975.
2.        The proposed irrigation system includes buried pipelines, and the
conveyance losses from the pumping stations or intakes to farm field would not
exceed 3% of the water supply.  Field losses from the sprinkler system due to
evaporation, wind action, minor leakage, etc. are estimated at 22%, while those
from the surface system due to deep percolation, field run off, etc. are esti-
mated at 35%. The overall efficiency of the project's irrigation system is
estimated at 68% (75% for sprinkler irrigation and 62% for surface irrigation).
3.        On the basis of the figures above and of the proposed cropping in-
tensity, the estimated gross annual water demand is 50 %m3 or 7,545 m3/ha for
the Testour/Medjez el Bab sprinkler irrigation system (Table 1) and 57 Mm3 or
7,600 m3/ha for the Cap Bon surface irrigation system (Table 2). The peak
monthly water demand of about 9.8 Mm3 or 1,470 m3/ha occurs in July for the
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject, while the peak monthly demand of about 9.8
Mm3 or 1,310 m3/ha occurs in August for the Cap Bon Subproject.
4.        The water requirement for the 6,000 ha citrus plantations is esti-
mated at 8,500 m3/ha/year, about 51 Mm3/year. Today only a part of this volume
is available from: (a) local sources (wells and reservoirs) which can safely
provide about 21 Mm3; and (b) a potable water supply pipeline operated by
SONEDE. After 1981 the latter supply will however be entirely used by SONEDE
to meet the urban requirements of the Hammamet-Nabeul area. About 30 1Im3 of
water would therefore be required from the project to satisfactorily irrigate
the citrus plantations.
5.        It is estimated that, after completion of the Sidi Salem Dam, about
190 Mm3 would be allocated annually from the reservoir to serve the irriga-
tion needs of the 32,800 ha of the Minimum Plan to be irrigated in the Lower
Medjerda Valley with an annual irrigation rate of about 5,800 m3/ha.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        An estimated demand of about 100 Mm3 for potable and industrial
water, by the year 2000, is presented in Annex 6.
7.        Conveyance losses in the concrete-lined Interconnection Canal are
estimated about 10%, and the project overall water requirements downstream of
the Sidi Salem Reservoir are summarized below:
Users                                                        Volume (Mm3)
Irrigation Water (lst Phase)
Testour/Medjez el Bab (5,200 ha)                             50
Cap Bon                (5,400 ha)                            63
Citrus Plantations    (6,000 ha)                             33
Lower Medjerda Valley (Minimum
Plan 32,800 ha)                                            190
Potable and Industrial Water                                   110
Irrigation Water (2nd Phase)                                   104
Total                                                        550
Water Availability
8.        The Medjerda River is the largest river in Tunisia and its watershed
covers about 26,300 km2. Its annual water volume varies from 320 Mm3 to 1,800
Mm3 with an average of 950 Mm3 at Medjez el Bab.
9.        The following dams have been built as part of the development of
Tunisia's Medjerda Basin and already contribute to potable and irrigation
water supplies.
Year of         Capacity
Dam             Basin           Construction        (Mm3)       Purpose
Ben Metir       El Lil            1947-50           40.0        Tunis water supply
Nebeur         Mellegue           1950-54          134.0        Flood control,
hydropower and
irrigation
Kasseb         Kasseb             1967-70           36.0        Tunis water supply
Lakhmess        Siliana           1974               7.0        Irrigation
Bou Heurtma    Bou Heurtma        1976              55.0        Irrigation
El Aroussia    Medjerda           1950         about 4.0        Irrigation and
power supply



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10        Downstream from the proposed Sidi Salem Dam, 32,800 ha are expected
to be irrigated in the framework of the Lower Medjerda Valley Minimum Plan; at
the end of 1975, 27,000 ha had already been equipped for irrigation.
11.       In 1972, consultants (ORSTOM) carried out a mathematical model simu-
lating flows of the Medjerda River and its tributaries, based on water volumes
recorded over a 20 year period. This study simulated fictive operation of the
Sidi Salem Reservoir. Its conclusion was that for a volume of water of 446
Mm3 to satisfy irrigation and potable water requirements for the first phase
(para 6) no water deficit would occur during operation of the reservoir at 105
m elevation, except for 6 one-month periods over a 20 year period when the
quantity of the available water to irrigate the whole equipped area could be
reduced 40%.
12.       In 1977, a new hydrological simulation model was carried out by
ORSTOM to take into account revised conditions which have taken place since
the Bank's appraisal mission in (i) the water requirements for the Bou Heurtma
irrigated perimeters, (ii) the potable water supply requirements of the Tunis,
Cap Bon. and Sousse areas, and (iii) the water available from the Mellegue
Reservoir (where due to changed flood control requirements, the available
storage for irrigation has been reduced). Of particular importance were the
results of the "Without Sidi Salem" (test No. 10) and "With Sidi Salem" (test
No. 9) cases 1/. In the "With Sidi Salem Reservoir" case, the higher 110 m
operation level was assumed to supply the water requirements for Bou Heurtma,
Minimum Plan and the Sidi Salem Subprojects (Testour/Medjez el Bab, Cap Bon,
Safeguard of Citrus) as well as projected potable water requirements for the
Tunis, Cap Bon and Sousse areas. Some simplifying assumptions were made to
the constraints of the potable water supply to take into consideration the
proposed construction of Djoumine Dam which is not included in the existing
simulation model.
In general, the results indicate that:
(i) a new reservoir would be necessary even to satisfy the
needs of on-going projects. The Sidi Salem Dam would
greatly improve the availability of summer irrigation
water to the Lower Medjerda Valley. The 32,800 ha of
the Minimum Plan and the 18,000 ha of the Bou Heurtma
Phase I would be in serious deficit without the proj-
ect. In contrast, the simulation model shows that with
Sidi Salem Reservoir there would only be one year over
a 20 year period with any water shortage (about 60% of
the total requirements for irrigation area) which is
considered as acceptable;
(ii) to optimize the use of the available waters for the various
requirements and to establish appropriate operating rules
1/   Tests 9 and 10 described in Exploitation du Modele de Simulation EAUTUN
LA - H. Dosseur - ORSTOM 1977.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
for the Sidi Salem Reservoir, it would be desirable to
request ORSTOM to carry out modifications to the existing
computer model, taking into account all water conveyance
affected by the Medjerda and Djoumine Rivers, upstream and
downstream of the Sidi Salem Dam, in order to balance and
minimize the overall deficit, which is not possible in the
existing model; and
(iii) to carry out a salinity study it would be useful to monitor for
a sufficient period water stored in the Sidi Salem Reservoir
at a level of 110 m.
Water Quality
13.       Water quality of the Medjerda River varies according to its tributa-
ries and to the season.  The tributaries on the left bank have better water
quality than those on the right bank. In summer, water salinity is high,
reaching 3.0 - 3.5 gram/1 at El Aroussia, and even higher downstream, while
in winter water quality is better with a salt content of 0.8 - 1.8 gram/1.
The following data from a study carried out in 1969 by a firm of Consultants
(GRONTMIJ, NETHERLANDS) indicate the salt content of irrigation water at El
Aroussia (monthly averages in gramil).
Month                   1961         1962         1963         1964         1965
January                   1.2         2.4           1.4         1.3          0.8
February                  1.4         0.8          0.8          1.4          1.2
March                     2.2          1.4          1.4          1.5          1.6
April                     2.6          1.6          1.4          1.8          1.8
May                       3.3          2.1          1.2          2.4          2.1
June                      3.0         2.7          1.1          2.2          2.2
July                      2.8          3.1         2.8          2.1          2.4
August                    3.4          2.8          2.3          2.3          2.5
September                 2.7         2.7           1.8         2.2          2.2
October                  2.5          2.0          2.2           -           2.3
November                 2.8          1.6          2.6          2.0          2.3
December                 2.6          1.7          1.8           -           2.0
The table shows that there are marked variations from year to year and par-
ticularly that salinity (i) exceeded 2.8 gram/1 from one to four months in
1961-62-63; and (ii) fluctuates between 1.7 gram/1 and 3.4 gram/1 during the
months of irrigation. Without the project, present salinity levels in the
Medjerda waters would be raised by two factors:  the return of drainage waters
from the 32,800 ha to be irrigated under the Minimum Plan and by diversion of
95 Mm3 of fresh water (0.4 gram/1) from the Kasseb and Bou Heurtma Reservoirs
to the Gdir el Goulla Reservoir to supply the Tunis urban needs.
14.       Consultants (Coyne & Bellier and ORSTOM) have studied the projected
salinity changes which would occur with the Sidi Salem Reservoir, and in



ANNEX 2
Page 5
particular the influence of the triassic formation, (see Annex 4, para. 7)
using a simulation study and a fictive exploitation of the Sidi Salem Reser-
voir. The study was based on discharge measurement of the Medjerda and its
tributaries. The calculations took into account: actual and future use of
the water stored by upstream dams (Kasseb, Ben Metir, Mellegue, Bou Heurtma);
the use of the groundwater and its effects on the Medjerda's flow; influence
of the drainage network carried out so far on the upstream side of the dam; the
monthly flow of the Medjerda's tributaries; and the monthly salinity registered
at El Aroussia. In the first phase, the reservoir would be filled to an
operating level of 105 m to satisfy project requirement, thus limiting the
influence of the triassic formation on the salinity of water in the reservoir.
However, when the second phase of the Water Master Plan is implemented, the
operating water level of the reservoir would reach an elevation of 110 m, and
it has been estimated that by the year 2000 the annual average salinity of the
waters of the Sidi Salem reservoir could reach 1.9 gram/1.
Water Rights and Pollution
15.       Although approximately 20% of the catchment of the Medjerda River is
located in Algeria, the annual average volume of 950 Mm3 of water recorded at
Medjez el Bab Station, compared with the average annual flow of about 130 Mm3
at the border, indicates that the bulk of water required for filling the re-
servoir originates in Tunisia and that even if the total water supply from
Algeria were cut, the Sidi Salem Project would not be affected. Contacts
between Algeria and Tunisia are maintained to discuss development of the
basin. The Algerian Government is presently carrying out a study of the
potential development of the river in Algerian territory. Algeria's present
use of 4 Mm3 per year from the river is expected to rise to 16 Mm3 in the
future.
16.       Two potential sources of pollution have been identified.  A cellu-
lose plant has been in operation for four years on the upper Medjerda River in
Algeria. No deleterious effects on water quality have been observed from the
plant waste water discharge. Up to now, adequate measures have been taken by
Algerian Authorities to avoid polluting the Medjerda waters.
17.       In connection with the project the Tunisian Government has confirmed
to the Bank that it has officially informed the Algerian Government of its
intention to implement the Sidi Salem Project and that problems of common
interest (such as the pollution of the river), are being discussed bila-
terally. The Government of Tunisia will monitor continuously relevant water
quality parameters so that, if required, adequate correction measures can be
taken in time. The other potential source of pollution which has been iden-
tified is a sugar beet factory located near Beja, immediately upstream from
the Sidi Salem Reservoir. A study on possible pollution from this factory
would be carried out by the Government assisted by consultants. The study
would further identify other existing sources of pollution and stimulate
further efforts to reduce the contamination of the river. The Bank would
review the findings of this study and its implementation.
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Estimated Water Requirements
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject
Cropped Area                                        Months
Item                                Unit       (ha)   (%)         Mar       Apr       May      Jun       Jul       Aug       Sep         Oct          Total
Average Monthly Temperature         oC                             12.9     16.1      19.8      25.0      27.6     28.5      24.5        19.7           -
Effective Rainfall il               mm                             29.4     28.4      18.2      14.0      1.4       5.2      30.7        23.9         151.2
Evapotranspiration Potential        mm                             83.7    111.0    130.2    159.0    186.0    170.5    132.0           108.5       1,080.0
Gross Water Reauirements /2         m3/ha
Sugar Beet                                    950    18         210       300       230        -        -         -         -           -           740
Wheat                                         950    18         130       210        70        -        -         -         -           -           410
Berseen                                       860    17         130        80        50        -        -         -        130         220          610
Sorghum                                       860    17           -        -         -        160      440       500        70          -         1,170
Vetch Oats                                    820    16          115      190        -         -         -        -         -           -           305
Sunflower                                     360      7          -        -         60       160      240       190        90          -           740
Alfalfa                                       720    14          110      200       220       340       210      210       230         160        1,680
Winter and Summer Vegetables                  460      8          50       70        60        60        80       100       80          50          550
Fruit Trees                                   670    13           -        -        220       400       500      220        _           -         1,340
Total Gross Water Requirements    m3/ha    6,650   128 /3          745    1,050       910    1,120    1,470    1,220          600         430       7.545
Volume Water Requirements           Mm3                            4.95    6.98      6.05      7.45      9.78      8.11      4.00        2.86        50.18
L1 Probability of 75%
/ Net water requirements plus losses
/3  Cropping intensity
Source:  Feasibility Study - Italconsult 1975
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Estimated Water Requirements
Cap Bon Subproject
Cropped Are                                                   Months
Item                                Unit       (ha)    (%)        Feb      Mar       Apr       May       Jun       Jul       Aug         Sep       Oct     Nov        Total
Average Monthly Temperature         °C                             11.7    13.9       15.5      19.5      24.1     26.3      26.9        24.4      19.5    15.3            -
Effective Rainfail /i               mm                            35.3    49.7        35.8      23.3       1.9      -         3.3        17.2      39.5    22.9          228.9
Evapotranspiration Potential        mm                             58.8    83.7      108.0    148.8    171.0    189.1    176.7          147.0    108.5    63.0         1,254.6
Gross Water Reauirements /2         m3/ha
Wheat                                       1,250    23           60     220        270       80         -        -         -           -         -        -           630
Berseem                                     1,250    23          90      130        300       60         -        -         -          160       300      120        1,160
Vetch Oats                                  1,250    23           60     220        130        -         -         -        -           -         -        -           410
Maize                                         430      8           -      -          -         -        200       240      240         150        -        -           830
Winter Vegetables                           1,250    23           70     230        300      120         -         -        70         130       130       -         1,050
Summer Vegetables                           1,650    30            -      -          -       200        330      740       920         690        40       -         2,920
Fruit Trees                                   400      7           -      -          -       100        200       220       80           -        -        -           600
Total Gross Water Requirements    m3/ha    7,480   137 /3          280      800     1,000      560        730    1,200    1,310         1,130       470      120        7,600
Volume Water Requirements           Mm3                            2.09    5.98      7.48      4.19       5.46    8.98       9.80        8.45       3.52    0.90        56.85
/1 Probability of 75%
/2 Net water requirements plus losses
/3 Cropping intensity
Source: Feasibility Study - Italconsult 1975
May 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
A. Present Land Tenure
1.        The proposed project includes 10,600 ha of land to be developed under
irrigation and 6,000 ha of irrigated citrus plantations to be rehabilitated.
A complete survey of land tenure in the 10,600 ha to be developed was carried
out at the beginning of 1976 by the Ministry of Agriculture which determined
the following (details in attached Table 1):
(a) Out of the total 16,600 ha, 84% (13,900 ha) are privately
owned while 16% (2,700 ha) are State Farms either run di-
rectly by the State Organization (OTD) 1/ or leased to Farmer
Cooperatives (U.C.P.). These farms cover 1,840 ha in the
Testour/Medjez el Bab and 860 ha in the Cap Bon Subprojects.
(b)  In the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject, small and medium
sized farms (up to 20 ha) predominate, representing 94% of
the farmers and 51% of the private area. There are only
some private farms exceeding 60 ha, representing 12% of
the total area.
(c)  In the Cap Bon Subproject, small farms (up to 10 ha) rep-
resent 96% of the private holdings and 52% of the private
area.  Medium sized farms (10 to 40 ha) and large farms
(more than 40 ha) cover respectively 13% and 27% of the
total area.
(d)  The legal status of ownership is complex:  co-heirs often
may be joint owners. Mlost units are farmed by one of a
number of possible owners but in some cases co-heirs
farm the land in partnership. With the exception of a
few holdings, absenteeism does not exist in the project
area.
(e)  Farms may include several plots, usually non-contiguous.
1/   Office for State Land Management.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
2.        The Citrus Plantations area is essentially owned by farmers
cultivating small orchards from 1 to 5 ha with the exception of a few
holdings varying from 10 to 25 ha. Since this area consists only of
small holdings, it was not included in the Ministry of Agriculture
survey. In the Lower Medjerda Valley 15% of the lands are state farms.
In the private sector, small and medium farms are predominant, although
a number of large holdings appear to be held merely as an investment,
with a high degree of absenteeism.
B. Agrarian Reform Legislation
3.        Law 63-8 of May 27, 1963, as amended by Law 71-9 of February 16,
1971, contains the agrarian reform legislation applicable to public irri-
gation areas (PPI). Under this law, public irrigation areas are created by
Decree on the recommendation of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and
Planning and of a National Advisory Committee for PPI established under
Law 63-8. The Ministry of Agriculture through its agrarian reform agencies
would be responsible for the execution of land reform. The main features
of the agrarian reform legislation (Law 63-8 and Law 71-9) are:
(a) Contribution Toward Public Investment and Limitations on Size
of Holdings. Any property jointly or corporately owned at the
date of the Decree creating each PPI is deemed to belong to one
owner. An exception is made, however, for property owned in
partnership by farmers who farm the land themselves. The Decree
determines each owner's contribution toward public investments
in the PPI. This contribution may be paid by the owner either
in cash or in kind (land). It must be paid in land by farmers
owning more than the maximum amount of land (ceiling) authorized
by Decree and in cash by farmers owning less than the authorized
floor.  In the areas already equipped for irrigation the amount
of the contribution in kind has been calculated on an average
basis of 80 Dinars per hectare payable over a 10 year period at
a rate of interest of 5%. This amount is well below the invest-
ment cost of irrigation and is expected to be reviewed in the
framework of a study undertaken by Government to relate recovery
rates to farmer's incentives and ability to pay (see Annex 16).
However, Government agreed that the average amount of Investment
Contributions shall not be less than 100 Dinars per hectare,
payable in annual installments, each of them to increase pro-
gressively during the first five years.  The floors and ceilings
will be determined by the same Decree as that creating public
areas for the two Subprojects. Ceilings in adjacent irrigated
areas of Badrouna and Lakhmess are 64 ha and 50 ha for the Lower
Medjerda Valley. Although best results are obtained on the
smaller farms, those of some 20 ha, it would be unrealistic, in
the present context, to expect ceilings significantly lower than
those in the adjacent irrigated areas.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
However, Government agreed that the maximum ceilîng of
private ownership would not exceed 15 ha in the highest
cropping intensity lands and 50 ha in the other lands of
the Testour/Medjez el Bab area. For the Cap Bon area, the
ceiling would encourage the optimal use of available irriga-
tion waters. By order, the Minister of Agriculture notifies
each owner of the amount of his contribution due in cash or
in kind (land) as well as the time allowed for payment. In
determining the amount of each individual contribution, prior
investment by each owner in his land is taken into account.
If payment is not made within the time allowed, the cash
contributions are recovered by the State and the contribution
in kind is expropriated by Decree without compensation.
Owners may not hold either less than the authorized floor
or more than the authorized ceiling of land in the same
area after deduction of the contribution toward public
investments. Owners of less than the authorized minimum
may sell their holdings or exchange land inside the irri-
gated sections for rainfed State land outside the irrigated
sections in accordance with Law 70-25 (paras 6-9). These
owners may enlarge their holdings when State land is dis-
tributed in the irrigated area, as available, or when private
land derived from holdings exceeding the maximum size is
distributed or sold. If, despite these opportunities, their
holdings remain below the floor, owners will be invited to form
a group to farm at least a minimum size lot or to appoint one
of their members to farm it. If, however, the above proposals
are not accepted by the owners, their holdings will be expro-
priated. Owners of land in excess of the authorized ceiling
will also have their excess holdings expropriated. In addition,
whole areas may be expropriated where land is overburdened with
owners and where land ownership status is totally confused.
Land is expropriated by Decree. The State gains possession
of expropriated land upon publication of the Decree in the
Official Gazette. Based on market value of the land and upon
recommendation of a committee composed of representatives of
the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, and Planning and of the
National Farmers Union, compensation is paid by the Special
Fund for Agricultural Promotion, created by Article 5, Law
70-25. Those who own less land than the authorized floor will
be compensated entirely in cash. Owners of more land than the
authorized ceiling will be compensated half in cash at the time
the amount is determined and half in 10-year State Bonds
bearing 4% annual interest. Landowners in those areas where
the situation is clouded by an excess of land holders will be
paid compensation in full if they leave and will be assigned
new land in the same area if they stay.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(b) Land Consolidation. Land consolidation should be undertaken
to ensure more rational farming of land. No specific proced-
ures are set out under Law 63-8 or Law 71-9. The procedures
commonly used are as follows:
(i)  An agro-economic, land, and social survey is made
for each area.
(ii) Detailed proposals are made for consolidation, re-
alignment, and redistribution of holdings. These
proposals take into account proposed contributions
toward public investments in the PPI to be charged
to PPI landowners and proposed expropriation and
exchanges of land to be made in the PPI (referred
to in (a) preceding).
(iii) Proposals are submitted to individual farmers and
negotiations conducted by a local committee are
started. If no agreement is reached, the Govern-
ment is empowered to resort to expropriation. If
an agreement is reached with a farmer, a record of
possession is drawn and signed by all parties in-
volved. Experience in Badrouna and Lakhmess indi-
cates this procedure is normally accepted by farmers.
For the two Subprojects, land consolidation would
take at least two and a half years and should precede
on-farm development.
(iv) Formal legal procedures are undertaken by (a) issuing
orders to levy contributions towards public investments
in the PPI; (b) issuing expropriation decrees when
necessary; and (c) exchange land outside the PPI if
necessary.
(v)  A detailed survey of the land covered by the consolid-
ation plan is carried out by the Ministry of Equipment's
Topographical Services or a private surveyor licensed by
the Services.
(vi) A registration procedure for each parcel involved,
covered by Sections 319-356 of the 1965 Code of Real
Estate Court, proceeds with various inquiries and
reaches a final judgment. Finally, this judgment
is sent to the Land Registry, which carries out
final registration. At this point, the owner can
be considered to possess a valid title.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(c)  Obligation Imposed on Farmers to Improve the PPI.  Farmers
are obliged to improve their land equipped for irrigation
by annually growing irrigated crops on at least two-thirds
of their holdings. Two years are allowed between the date
that irrigation infrastructure becomes operational and the
date irrigated farming must begin. If farmers fail to pro-
ceed accordingly, the Government may provide the necessary
on-farm investments to make irrigated farming possible.
The farmers then have to reimburse the Government, the
amount to be determined by order of the Ministry of Agri-
culture. Credit may be granted for such reimbursement, in
which case the State takes a first mortgage. Under excep-
tional circumstances, the Government may decide by Decree
to proceed with such on-farm investments before the end
of the two years allowed, with reimbursement required as
above.
C. Future Private Farm Size Distribution
4.        Although Government may decide to establish lower ceilings, fol-
lowing land consolidation, the future farm distribution is assumed to be as
follows in the new irrigated areas:
Farm Size                    Private Farm Units                   Area
(Hectares)                   Number           %           Hectares          %
Testour/Medjez el Bab
Subproject
2 - 10                        550           89              1,990           55
Il - 20                         37            6                450           15
21 - 50                         28            5                920           30
Total                     615          100              3,360         100
Cap Bon Subproject
1 - 10                      1,737           97              3,166          70
11 - 20                         35            2                404            9
21 - 40                         29            1                980          21
Total                   1,801          100              4,550         100



ANNEX 3
Page 6
5.         The Citrus Plantation area would not be subject to land consolida-
tion, since all holdings are currently of an acceptable size. The present
status of the State farms would also remain unchanged.
6.         In the Lower Medjerda Valley, the farm size has been limited by
decree at 50 ha. Although the land reform measures in the Fourth-Plan (1973-
1976) reached about 70% of the planned area in Tunisia, progress in land
reform has been slow in the Lower Medjerda Valley, partly because the legis-
lation applicable to that area does not contain the same incentives as that
to be applied in the new subproject areas.
7.        The agrarian reform agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture have
the technical staff and experience to complete agrarian reform and land
consolidation in the project area.
8.        A tentative Land Reform and Land Consolidation timetable is
presented in Table 2.
D. State Farms and Farm Cooperatives
9.         State Farms and Farm Cooperatives were established over the period
1956-1964 when the State acquired about one million ha by the purchase and
nationalization of foreign-owned and "habous" lands. Since then, lands prev-
iously privately held have been returned to private ownership, and now only
126,000 ha remain State Farms and 350,000 ha farmer cooperatives. Both
state farms and cooperatives are managed by Office for State Land Management
(OTD). It is not clear what their future will be. In past years they have
been plagued by poor management and an excessive degree of centralized control.
The Government does not envisage redistributing state lands in the near future.
Important initiatives were taken toward the end of 1976 to reorganize and
strengthen OTD Management by decentralizing authority to the level of indi-
vidual production units and transferring decision-making power to the members
of the cooperatives. In the Testour/Medjez el Bab area all state lands are
farm cooperatives. In 1975, sugar beet crops under control of the Tunisian
Sugar Company were planted in demonstration plots and good yields were obtained.
In the Cap Bon area, there are only state farms, mostly dry farmed with old,
low producing vineyards which would be uprooted and replaced by new cropping
patterns. Both Farm Cooperatives and State Farms could play an important role
in introducing the expected new crops and new techniques, provided their
management is reinforced and properly selected. Management of the OTD lands
in the two subprojects areas is to be strengthened.
May 1977



ANNEX 3
TUNISIA                            Table 1
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Present Land Tenure
Item                                                     Area
Testour/Medjez el Bab
Over
Private Farms                       0-10 ha   11-20 ha   21-60 ha   60 ha    Total
Farm Units                          526         37          23           5       591
(%)                               (89%)        (6%)        (4%)       (1%)    (100%)
Joint Owners                      1,153         95          75          17    1,330
(%)                              (87%)         (7%)        (5%)       (1%)    (100%)
Area                              1,400        570         765         625    3,360
(%)                              (42%)        (17%)       (22%)      (19%)    (100%)
State Farms
Farm Units                          -           -           -           20        20
Area                                -                       -        1,840    1,840
Total Area                     1,400         570         765       2,465    5,200
Cap Bon
Over
Private Farms             0-5 ha   6-10 ha   11-20 ha   21-40 ha   40 ha    Total
Farm Units              1,245        80          35          13         16    1,389
(%)                      (90G%)     (6%)        (2%)        (1%)     (1%)    (100%)
Joint Owners            1,970       185         105          35        113    2,408
(%)                      (82%)     (8%)         (4%)       (1%)      (5%)    (100%)
Area                    1,844       498         404         340     1,454    4,540
(%)                      (41%)    (11%)         (9%)       (7%)    (32%)    (100%)
State Farms
Farm Units                 -         -           -           15         10       25
Area                       -         -           -          400        460      860
Total Area           1,844       498         404         740      1,914    5,400
May 1977



TtlNISIA
SIDI SALEM MHTIPURIPOSE PWOJECT
T!ie-table For The Carrying Out Of Land Raforim
Phases               Years               1977            1978           1979            1980            1981           1982            1983                      Rlrks
Irrigation Infrastructure Investment
Coast Recovery Study                                                                                                                                   (Sept. 77 - 30 Sept. 1978)
Socio-agronomical Studies                                                                                                                                 (January 1978 - March 1979) Inventory
of Praperties end of Ouner.
Final Determination of Boundaries                                                                                                                         (March 1, 1979) Determination to be
of Irrigated Areas                                                                                                                                     b- ed on the pr cticability of the
Irrigation Infrastructure
Meeting of National Advisory                                                                                                                              (Marich 1979) Tfie National Advi.ory
Committees of Public Irrigated                                                                                                                         Co_ittee deteraines the basis upon which
Areas                                                                                                                                                  the ceiling, the floor of the Irrigated Areas
and the _ount of the Investment Contributions
areo ta ha det.rainad
Issuance of Decrees eBtabli5hing                                                                                                                          (October 1  1979)  The Decrees determine the
Public Irrigated Are-as                                                                                                                                 statutory limite of the properties to be left
in the Project Are and thé _ount of the
contributions.
Preparation of Land Consolidation                                                                                                                         (April 1979 - October 1980)  Plans for Lmd`
Consolidation to be prepared on the basie
of socio-agronomical studies and irrigation
Carrying out of Land Consolidation                                                                                                                        To be carried out over * period of 3 yare
as and hien the are   aire brought under
irrigationi
Approval of Land Consolidation                                                                                                                            Folloving physical execution of the
previous operations
Payment. of Investment Contributions                                                                                                                      This operation to be conducted aimultan.ously
in kind                                                                                                                                                 witi the Land Consolidation
Installation of Project Area Farmers                                                                                                                      Lots are constituted vith public
on Land Reform Plots                                                                                                                                    and privace land and suppl_aentad vith
public l_d if neadad
Issuance of Individual Ministerial                                                                                                                        Folloving the previous operstion by
order determining the Individuel                                                                                                                         about one year
Investment Contribution and the
Payment Conditions
Preparation of Delivery of Property                                                                                                                        Betveen one and two y.arm *fter the
Certificates                                                                                                                                             installation of Project Arts Farmrs
May 1977
a1



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Project Description
A. Selection and Formulation of the Project
1.        In 1968, as a result of the increasing demand for potable and indus-
trial water, primarily to supply the Tunis and Cap Bon areas and also for an
additional irrigation, the Government outlined a strategy for a Water Master
Plan for Northern Tunisia. The Plan covers practically the whole northern
part of the country, including the Medjerda River Basin, the Ichkeul Water-
shed, the Djoumine, Sedjenane and Madene Rivers, and the Cap Bon Watershed
system. In 1969, the Government initiated engineering studies to provide
a Preliminary Master Plan. The Bank made a technical assistance grant of
US$150,000 to finance consultants (Italconsult, Italy) to carry out these
studies. Italconsult submitted its final report in July, 1970. This report,
after setting forth the problem to be resolved and the solutions examined by
the Tunisian Authority, proposed possible alternatives and made an economic
evaluation. There were three alternative schemes whose common denominator
was the priority given to potable and industrial water supplies.  For each
of these the different possibilities for irrigation were examined in the
light of water quality and quantity, the works foreseen being adequate for
requirements until the year 2000. The alternative scheme (A3), which has
been proposed at that time, has provided the construction of the Sidi Salem,
Sedjenane and Djoumine Dams, and the use of Tunis sewage water. The three
dams mentioned above differed greatly in cost, salinity of water in the re-
servoirs and distance from consuming centers. The Sidi Salem Dam has shown
the lowest investment cost per cubic meter of water and the nearest to the
major consuming centers (Medjez el Bab, Tunis, Cap Bon, etc.). Its waters,
however, are more saline than those of other dams. Thus the waters of this
reservoir would be used for potable use by mixing with the water available
from other existing or new sources. This alternative has included the maxi-
mum irrigation use of the Water Master Plan. The priority has been given,
in all cases, to the provision of supplementary waters to existing citrus
plantations in the Cap Bon area (6,000 ha). The Consultants have pointed out
the possibility to expand the irrigated area in Lower Valley, Cap Bon, Mornag
and Mateur for a total of 32,500 ha. Italconsult concluded that the Tunisian
proposal to build a dam located at the Sidi Salem site, to construct an Inter-
connection Canal from El Aroussia to the Cap Bon area and about 38,500 ha
irrigated area (IBRD Map 12232) was economically justified. The consultants
also recommended that certain hypotheses based on data from available studies,
to be verified by further studies on the four following aspects:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
- Water salinity in the Medjerda River Basin system;
Resistance of citrus trees to saline irrigation water;
Possibility of using treated sewage waters from the Tunis
area for irrigation;
Economic and technical feasibility of the Sidi Salem main
storage dam in the Medjerda River Valley.
2.        A Bank staff group reviewed the report and basically agreed with
Italconsult conclusions and recommendations. The consultants also proposed
a mathematical approach, considered as the most appropriate method of
achieving the scope of the study. The study on the salinity of the waters
in Sidi Salem Reservoir and of these waters after their departure from the
reservoir and their collection again at El Aroussia was assigned to the Office
for Scientific and Technical Research for Overseas (ORSTOII) and was a main
input of the mathematical model. The technical feasibility study and the
preliminary design of the Sidi Salem Dam, assigned to Coyne & Bellier, was
examined by Italconsult and used in the model.
3.        Final reports on the four additional specific studies and the pro-
posed revised Water Master Plan were submitted in 1974 to the Tunisian Govern-
ment. The revised Master Plan proposed a multipurpose scheme for development
of water resources in the Medjerda and Ichkeul Basins with the waters used for:
(i) satisfying potable and industrial water requirements for the Tunis, Cap
Bon and Sousse areas; (ii) supplying additional water to safeguard 6,000 ha
citrus plantations in the Cap Bon area; (iii) improving agricultural produc-
tion in areas already equipped in the Lower Medjerda Valley; (iv) irrigation
of about 30,000 ha; (v) generation of hydroelectrical energy; and (vi) protec-
tion against the Medjerda River's floods. The proposed Plan has been approved
by the Tunisian Government, and the decision has been made to implement it
into two phases. This appraisal report covers the first phase called the Sidi
Salem Multipurpose Project. The second phase, the Ichkeul Project, would pro-
vide construction of additional dams (Sedjenane, Djoumine, Madene, Saida), a
link canal to supply potable water to Bizerte and Tunis, and irrigation of
about 20,000 ha to the north of Tunis (Mateur). The proposed works and the
irrigation area for both phases are shown on IBRD Map 12232.
B. Description of the Project
4.        The Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project would include construction of
the following components:
(a) The Sidi Salem rockfill dam and storage reservoir with
a capacity of 550 Mm3, and relocation of railroad, road
and potable water pipes;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(b) A 25 MW hydropower plant;
(c) 126 km of Interconnection Canal (conduits, syphons) for
conveying water to the Tunis and Cap Bon areas;
(d) Irrigation, drainage and road networks, land preparation
and windbreaks to serve an area of 10,600 ha, divided into
two separate subprojects:
(i) Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject (5,200 ha); and
(ii) Cap Bon Subproject (5,400 ha);
(e) Rehabilitation works for 6,000 ha of citrus plantation in
the Cap Bon area and provision of a tertiary underground
distribution network for 935 ha to complete the irrigation
network.
The project would also provide buildings, housing and equipment for the ex-
tension service and for operation, maintenance and supervision of the items
mentioned above; credit and on-farm development and construction of three milk
collection centers. Consultants would assist with the design, tendering and
supervision of construction of project works and with carrying out water
development and policy studies. Training for the project personnel would
also be provided.
5.        In addition, the project would (i) improve agricultural production
in areas already equipped for irrigation in the Lower Medjerda Valley (on
approximately 32,800 ha) by increasing the quantity and quality of water
available during the summer months; (ii) reduce flood damage in the Medjerda
Valley; (iii) contribute toward meeting potable and industrial water require-
ments for the Tunis, Cap Bon and Sousse areas. These features are described
below and illustrated in IBRD Map 12233, 12234, 12235 and 12236.
Sidi Salem Dam and Associated Works
6.        The Sidi Salem Dam would be located on the Medjerda River, 10 km
upstream from the city of Testour, as measured along the bed of the river.
The proposed dam would be a rockfill structure, 57 m high above the stream
bed with a crest elevation at 122 m. It would be constructed with a clay-core.
A cofferdam 50 m high and a precofferdam 17 m high would be included in the
dam body. A grout curtain across the foundation would assure the dam's water
tightness. Diversion of the river during construction would require two
tunnels in the right abutment. The two tunnels, each with a diameter of 8.2
m, would later be used:  one for supplementary flood discharge of up to 760
m3/sec and the other as a bottom outlet. The spillway, a gated chute type,
with stilling basin and a flip bucket to dissipate energy would be located on
the right bank. It would have three radial gates 15 m wide x 13.5 m high.
With the reservoir capacity of 400 Mm3 above the maximum normal operating
level of 110 m, the dam would be safe against the unlikely occurence of the
estimated 10,000-year flood (6,720 m3/sec). The storage of the flood water by



ANNEX 4
Page 4
the reservoir was conceived to reduce at 600 m3/sec for 10-year flood (1,680
m3/sec) and at 1,200 m3/sec for 100-year flood (3,360 m3/sec) into river
downstream. Additional technical data are presented in Table 1.
7.        Geological investigations covered detailed surface mapping, drillings,
permeability measurements, excavation of shafts and tunnels, and in-situ and
laboratory measurement of rock deformations. Upstream of the Sidi Salem site,
the Medjerda River crosses through heterogeneous triassic formations, which
may cause an increase in the salinity of the reservoir. Detailed geological
studies and comparison with other reservoir sites, where similar triassic
formations exist, indicated that the increase in salinity of the Sidi Salem
Reservoir due to the triassic formation would not exceed 0.5 gram/1. Con-
struction materials have been located, and exploration of the proposed
pits indicates that there is sufficient fill material available.
8.        The Sidi Salem Reservoir would have a gross storage capacity of 550
Mm3 at maximum normal operating level of 110 m above sea level, plus flood
storage capacity of about 400 Mm3. The storage capacity would be large enough
to regulate the natural river flows with limited spilling so that most of the
Medjerda River's water could be utilized by the project. To irrigate the
16,600 ha and supply the potable and industrial water planned for the first
phase of the Water M4aster Plan, the water level on the reservoir vould be at
an elevation of 105 m, which corresponds to a 370 Mm3 storage capacity. For
the second phase, when an additional area would be irrigated, the reservoir
would be filled to its maximum operating elevation of 110 m, corresponding
to a total storage capacity of 550 Mm3.
9.        Hydropower Plant.  A power plant for peak demand would be located
at the upstream toe of the dam in a powerhouse with an exterior diameter of
17.2 m.  The plant vould have a capacity of about 25 MW, and would generate
an average annual quantity of electricity of about 40,000 MWh at a plant
factor of about 0.20.
10.       The power plant would also comprise:  a water intake tower located
about 130 m upstream from the dam, octogonal in shape and 17 m in diameter;
a 54 m long, 5.3 m diameter penstock, the first half concrete lined, and
the final 27 m with steel linings; a downstream surge tank with a low expan-
sion chamber associated with the powerhouse; a 6 m diameter lined tailrace
300 m long; and an outlet with two straits equipped with valves. The
Kaplan turbine would be rated at a maximum 25 MW for a minimum net head of
25 m and a flow of 94 m3/sec.  The generator would be rated at 30 MVA, 50 H
and 0.85 power factor. It would be unit-connected to the 90 KV network through
a three phased transformer located in the upper part of the left bank.
11.       The hydropower plant is a peak load plant and its operation schedule
would be coordinated with irrigation and potable water requirements. An op-
timization study to establish appropriate operating rules for the Sidi Salem
Reservoir would be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and its consul-
tants.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
12.       Access Road and Camp.  A new road would be constructed along the
left bank to Testour to provide access to the site. A permanent camp would
be constructed nearby to provide facilities for construction of the dam and
to serve later as an operation and maintenance headquarters for the dam and
associated works.
13.       Land Acquisition and Village Relocation.  The lands to be flooded
by the Sidi Salem Reservoir and those to be occupied by other project works
would be acquired by the government and adequate compensation would be paid
for the land and immovable assets such as houses and plantations which would
be submerged. A maximum of 6,000 ha of land and 40,000 fruit trees will be
flooded, corresponding to a normal maximum operating water level of 110 m.
Studies and documentation for acquiring the area are being prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture (DEGTH). A preliminary study indicated that the
total number of houses to be displaced would be about 700 (3,500 people)
or 73,000 m2 constructed surface, and about 22 equipped wells would also be
submerged. Most of these are located in Oued Zarga village between elevations
110 m and 120 m. Except for some public units, no assets of importance are
located in the area and no archeological sites are known. The inhabitants now
living in the reservoir area would be moved to other places where electricity,
water supply, sanitary facilities, access roads and schools would be provided
by the Tunisian Government under its Rural Development Plan. Studies and
documentation required for village relocation would be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Public Works. The total amount under this project would
represent about D 4.7 million for compensation both lands and properties.
Payments would be synchronized with the implementation schedule (Annex 11)
and made a year before these properties become no longer available for normal
use by the present owners.
14.       Railroad Relocation.  Construction of the Sidi Salem Reservoir would
submerge the 27 km Oued Zarga-Mastouta section of the Tunis-Algiers railway
line. A detour of some 53 km has been proposed as follows: (see fig. 1):



ANNEX 4
Page 6
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
K Rsar
/WrMezouar
Existing Section 27.00 km
New Section,
Beja                                   26.0 km
TO Ghardimaou               Line to be Submerged 27.19 km                  To Tunis
Mastouta                                                  Oued Zarga
Fig. 1   Railroad Relocation



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(i) A new 26 km section would be constructed from Oued Zarga
to a point near Ksar Mezouar on the existing but unused
Ksar Mezouar-Beja line. This section is in hilly country
and includes four bridges, ranging from 100 to 230 meters
long.
(ii) 27 km of existing line between the new section and Mastouta
has to be overhauled. This portion of the route consists
of two sections. The first, a 14 km section to Beja along
the unused line, is in particularly bad shape. The second
is a spur line from Beja to Mastouta.
Two stations would be built on the new section to serve Oued Zarga and Ksar
Mezouar. The average speeds would be limited by a gradient of about 1.2%
on Il km of the new section. A third technical station may become neces-
sary in time, to provide tracks for passing and overtaking. There will be
a complete overhaul of the track on the 27 existing kilometers, including
rails, sleepers, and ballast, as well as certain substructure works. About
1 km of. track would be realligned, near Oued Beja, to increase the radius
of two curves from 350 m to 450 m. On both new and existing sections, the
project includes signalling, telecommunications, and other station facilities.
The Sidi Salem Project eliminates the need to overhaul the line which is to be
flooded. The SNCFT has just completed a Bank-financed modernization project
and operates the existing line in a satisfactory manner.
15.       The relocation increases by about 25 km the railroad route between
Tunis and the Algerian border. The resultant slight increase in traffic costs,
however, would be insignificant in relation to project's overall benefits.
Furthermore, most of the traffic is between Beja and Tunis. With the new
alignment, this traffic would be entirely on the main line instead of partly
on a spur as hitherto, and the distance between these towns would be decreased
by 3 km. Finally, the existing line is subject to flooding which submerged it
once every few years, and this hazard would be eliminated by the relocation.
16.       Road and Potable Water Supply Pipe Relocation.  Construction of the
Sidi Salem Reservoir would also submerge about 6 km of the Ghardimaou-Tunis
main road and 13 km of potable water pipe from the Kasseb and Ben Metir
Reservoirs to Tunis. The consultants have proposed their relocation on new
alignments of 8 km and 17.8 km respectively, which would be designed and
carried out by the Ministry of Public Works and SONEDE.  The cost of those
works has been included in the project's estimated cost.
17.       The Medjerda - Cap Bon Interconnection Canal.  The Interconnection
Canal, which would extend from the El Aroussia diversion dam to the Cap Bon
area, would have a total length of 126 km. The intake structure would be
located on the right bank of the Medjerda River, upstream from a diversion
dam built in the 1950's. The canal would have an initial flow capacity of



ANNEX 4
Page 8
16 m3/sec and a terminal flow of 2.3 m3/sec (Map IBRD 12236). There would be
a built-in storage capacity of about 50,000 m3 to supply the peak irrigation
demands for the intensified cropping pattern proposed for the Cap Bon Sub-
project area, the water requirements for citrus plantations, and potable water
for the Tunis and Sousse areas. Automatic constant downstream level gates
similar to type AVIO-AVIS and overflow structures would be installed through-
out the canal system to regulate the flow. The Interconnection Canal would
be lined with 10 cm thick concrete to reduce percolation losses. The Project
would include such related structures as bridges, culverts under or above
railroad and/or roads, conduit-supports, conduit-bridges, and water discharge
structures. The canal would be trapezoidal in cross-section with a gradient
of 2 vertical to 3 horizontal. The average slope of the canal would be 12
cm/km and the water speed would range between 0.8-1.0 m/sec.
18.       Two pumping stations located on the canal would be required to pump
water from the canal's lower to its upper level. The total installed capacity
of these stations would be 5,200 KW. Automated controls would activate pumps
according to fluctuations in demand. Six intakes, of which one is double
serving two main pipelines, to supply water to the Cap Bon and Citrus Planta-
tions irrigated areas would also be located on the canal. The main works
would include: 5.3 Mm3 of earthworks; 1.7 Mm2 of concrete lined surface; and
140,000 m3 masonry and filter material. Additional technical data for pumping
stations and intakes are presented in Tables 2 and 3.
Irrigation Component
19.       Background.  Selection of the irrigation methods (by sprinkler
or furrows) was based on such factors as natural topography condition, land
tenure, cropping patterns, frequency of wind, land morphology, and economic
criteria. Furrow irrigation and low head pressure were selected by consul-
tants for the Cap Bon Subproject which has regular slopes and small holdings
and is planted mainly in vegetables and fruit trees. Sprinkler irrigation
was selected for the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject which has irregular
slopes since land levelling required for furrow irrigation would have been too
expensive. For both Subprojects, underground pipe with hydrants or turnout
were selected to distribute the water from the canal and pumping stations to
on-farm irrigation equipment. These pipes will maintain the pressure head
needed for the selected irrigation methods, conserve land and water, and
facilitate more efficient irrigation practices. The diameters of the pipes
were determined from standard hydraulic and economic computations. More
technical data are presented in Table 4.
20.       Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject.  The Testour/Medjez el Bab Sub-
project comprises two areas located on the banks of the Medjerda River 20 km
apart. This Subproject would be divided into eight sectors: four in the
Testour area and four in the Medjez el Bab area. These sectors would be
served by five concrete pressure basins connected with the pumping station
through a pressure pipe, and each sector would have its individual distribu-
tion system (Map IBRD 12235).



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(a)  Pumping Stations.  Two pumping stations, one in each area,
would be located on the right bank of the Medjerda River.
Vertical pumps would be designed to lift flow through
pressure pipes into concrete pressure basins located at a
higher ground. The total installed capacity of these pumping
stations would be 5,350 KW. In the river two overflow dams,
one for each pumping station, would be constructed to raise
the water level so as to permit good suction of the pumping
units. A secondary pumping station of 20 KW capacity would be
constructed in the Testour area to serve about 72 ha at a
still higher ground. Automatic control would activate pumps
according to fluctuations in demand. Detailed characteristics
of the pumping stations are shown in Table 2.
(b) Power Supply Works. In order to supply power to the three
pumping stations, about 20 km of 30 KV and 4 km of 90 KV
power line would have to be constructed with two trans-
former posts of 5 MVA and 10 MVA. These works would be
carried out by STEG as a project feature. The investment
cost of this network and transformer posts are identified
as a project cost.
(c)  Pipe Distribution System.  An underground distribution
network would consist of reinforced concrete pipes from
350mm to 800mm diameter for large pipes, and asbestos
cement pipes from 150 mm to 300 mm diameter for the smaller.
The average length of the pipe would be 41 m/ha for the
Testour area and 33 m/ha for the Medjez el Bab area. A
typical layout would consist of a primary pipeline from
the pressure concrete basin, with outlets feeding second-
ary distribution pipes spaced at about 412 m for Testour
and 460 m for Medjez el Bab. Each sector would be divided
into smaller rectangular irrigation units averaging about
40 ha crossed at the median line by one of the secondary
pipelines. The irrigation units would contain two blocks,
one on each side of the secondary pipe. Spacing between
hydrants would be 60 m for the Testour area and 72 m for
the Medjez el Bab area.
(d)  Mobile Equipment.  Portable laterals of 200 m for the Testour
area and 220 m for the Medjez el Bab area would be connected
to hydrants. The lateral would operate simultaneously on
each side of the pipe. Each lateral would have 16 to 18
sprinklers which would operate at minimum working pressure
of 2.5 atmospheres at the nozzles.  A spacing of 12 m x 12 m
between sprinklers and between laterals has been selected
for economic reasons for the Testour/Medjez el Bab Sub-
project. During peak months, irrigation would take place
18 hours per day - 2 settings at 9 hours for the Testour



ANNEX 4
Page 10
area and 1 setting at 18-hours for the Medjez el Bab area.
Available records indicate that, even during the months of
peak water requirements (July) the wind speed will be below
4 m/sec over about 85% of the time, i.e. wind speed would
not significantly affect the proposed sprinkler irrigation
patterns. A precipitation rate of 7.8mm/hour was selected for
the Testour area; and 3.9 mm/hour was selected for the Medjez
el Bab area where the heavier soils have a lower infiltra-
tion capacity. The irrigation interval would be 7.5 days.
The portable laterals would include aluminum pipe, sprinkler
with risers and nozzles, couplings, accessories, and spare
parts.
(e) Drainage. Surface drainage facilities would be required
for the entire Subproject area, mainly to protect crops
from excess surface water and to make certain that the
highest water table level does not rise above 1.Om below
surface during the rainy season. The network would in-
clude about 15 km of main and secondary channels and 110 km
of tertiary drains spaced at about 412m for Testour and 460m
for Medjez el Bab.
21.       Cap Bon Subproject
(a) Irrigation System. The Cap Bon Subproject is divided into
five sectors: North Soliman (730 ha); South Soliman (630
ha); Lower Grombalia (920 ha); Higher Soliman (1,150 ha);
and Higher Grombalia (1,970 ha). All sectors would be fed
by the five intakes located on the Medjerda-Cap Bon Intercon-
nection Canal (Table 3 and Map IBRD 12233). Low pressure
water from the Interconnection Canal would feed the primary
and secondary pipes serving the sector. The distribution
networks would be buried and would consist of asbestos
cement and concrete pipes. The size of pipes would vary
from 150 mm to 900 mm. Total length of asbestos and concrete
pipe required for this subproject is estimated at 327 km.
A typical layout of the irrigation unit would include a
tertiary pipe feeding the blocks on one or two side depending
on the direction of the contour lines and the irrigation
furrows. Tertiary pipes would be spaced either 388 m or 194
m according to the type of irrigation unit chosen. The size
of the irrigation unit would be 194 m x 1,122 m in the
first case, and 388 m x 561 m in the second case totaling
about 21 ha. The length of furrows would be limited to a
maximum of 200 m. This length would ensure uniform distri-
bution of water along the furrow to its end point, an accept-
able cost for land levelling, and the use of mechanization.
Californian type turnouts at intervals of 45 m would feed a



ANNEX 4
Page 11
set of furrows through either temporary canals and syphons or
portable flexible pipe with outlets at furrow spacings placed
along the upper side of each unit. Working pressure would be
0.2 atmospheres at turnout. Daily irrigation period would be
20 hours in the peak monthly.
(b)  Land Levelling.  The area to be irrigated by furrows would
require light to medium levelling at an average rate of
500 m3/ha to prevent formation of ponds during the rainy
season and to correct minor topographic irregularities,
and to create a needed slope in the furrow area.
(c) Drainage. Surface drainage facilities would be required
for the entire subproject mainly to protect crops from ex-
cess surface water. The drainage network would include
85 km of main and secondary channels and 305 km of tertiary
drains spaced at 194 m or 388 m depending on the type of
irrigation unit chosen. The average cross section of the
drains would vary between 2 to 5 m2 and be trapezoidal in
shape.
22.       Road Network.  Main roads belonging to the highway system of Tunisia
pass through both the Testour/Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon Subprojects. About 95
km of gravel roads and 670 km of farm roads would be built in both subproject
areas to accommodate the increase in heavy traffic during the sugar beet and
fruit harvests. Farm roads would be spaced about 430 m apart. Roads sur-
faced with gravel available locally would be built to all pumping stations.
The width would vary from 4 m to 8 m, depending on projected use.
23.       Buildings and Housing.  New offices would be built for operation
and maintenance works located in Medjez el Bab, Grombalia and Menzel Bou
Zelfa. In addition, housing would be constructed for OMVVM-PPI's personnel
required to live in the irrigation area. Three milk collection centers would
also be constructed in the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject area. These
centers would contain pasteurizing equipment and refrigerated storage.
More details are given in Table 5.
24.       Land Preparation and Windbreaks.  Land preparation would include
subsoiling and removal of thorny shrubs. Small gullies and minor topographic
irregularities would be filled. In the Testour/Medjez el Bab area, a wind-
break network would be included to reduce evaporation, realize a uniform dis-
tribution of water, and maintain the assumed irrigation efficiency. In the
Cap Bon area, such crops as fruit trees and vegetables would also need wind
protection. Windbreaks, consisting of double or multiple rows of trees and
generaly aligned perpendicular to the prevailing wind direction, would be
established over the entire surface of this project. Suitable tree species
include eucalyptus, acacia, tamarind, cypress etc.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
25.       Safeguard of the Citrus Plantations.  Two intakes into the Medjerda-
Cap Bon Interconnection Canal and main pipes, would bring water to the two
pumping stations (Map IBRD 12234). Then through two main pressure pipelines
with a total length of 22 km water would pass to the Bezirk and Sidi Toumi
Basins to supply about 6,000 ha of citrus plantations. One pumping station
would be located near Soliman and would consist of the existing pumping station
to which would be added two pump units with a capacity of 600 KW. The other
one would be located close to Belli and would have a installed capacity of
1,650 KW. Detailed features of these pumping stations and intakes on the
Interconnection Canal are shown in Tables 2 and 3. A low pressure underground
tertiary network with farm turnout covering an area of about 935 ha would
be included in the project to complete the irrigation network. Final design
has already been prepared by consultants (SOGREAH). Five km high tension line
of 90 KW and a transformer post of 5 MVA would be constructed to supply the
two pumping stations. The investment cost of these works is included in
project cost.
26.       Equipment and Machinery.  The equipment and machinery to be provided
under the project for operation and maintenance of the dam, the Interconnec-
tion Canal, and irrigation, drainage and road networks would consist mostly of
hydraulic and earth moving equipment, machinery and vehicles for supervision
and construction activities, and agricultural equipment for on-farm development.
A detailed list of equipment both for DEGTH and OMVVM-PPI is shown in Annex 5.
27.       Various Studies.  Three main studies would be carried out by the
Tunisian Government as follows:
(a) Medjerda Basin Water Resources and their Optimal Utilization.
The study would comprise: (i) a hydrological study which will
assess the flow of water from the Medjerda and Djoumine Rivers,
taking into account most recent hydrological data; (ii) a water
availability study, taking into account all water developments
carried out on the Medjerda and Djoumine Rivers, upstream and
downstream of the Sidi Salem Dam; (iii) a study on Sidi Salem
Dam operations in order to establish operating rules; and (iv) a
salinity study which would monitor for a sufficient period water
stored in the Sidi Salem Reservoir at a level of 110 m.
(b) Pollution Protection of the Medjerda River. The study would
determine the pollutants that could affect the quality of
water stored in Sidi Salem. A protection plan and its imple-
mentation will be defined.
(c) Cost Recovery Charges of Investment, Operation and Maintenance
of Hydraulic Infrastructure. The study would comprise two
parts: (i) one part would determine cost allocations among the
water users. The appropriation of costs would serve as a basis
of calculating charges to be divided between STEG, SONEDE and
the irrigated areas; and (ii) the other part would determine cost
recovery policy covering infrastructure investment, operation and
maintenance costs.
May 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Technical Data for the Sidi Salem Dam and Associated Works
Reservoir
Maximum Normal Operating Water Level                                  110 m /1
Corresponding Storage                                                550 Mm:3
Operating Water Level in the First Phase                             105 m
Corresponding Storage                                                370 Mm3
Maximum Probable Flood Level                                          119.5 m
Corresponding Flood Storage above Maximum
Normal Operating Level                                              400 mM3
Sediment Space (50 Years)                                            200 Mm3
Dead Storage                                                           75 Mm3
Area at Top of Surcharge Pool 118.5m                               6,000 ha
Area at Top of Normal Operating Level llOm                         4,300 ha
Area at Top of the First Phase Level 105m                          3,150 ha
Dam
Type                                                         Rockfill with Clay-Core
and Downstream Drain
Maximum Crest Elevation                                               122 m
Crest Length                                                         340 m
Crest Width                                                           10 m
Height above Stream Bed                                                57 m
Height above Sound Bed Rock                                            70 m
Slope - Downstream Side                                       1 vertical/3 horizontal
Slope - Upstream Side                                         1 vertical/4 horizontal
Upstream Cofferdam
Crest Elevation                                                    102.5 m
Maximum Height                                                       50 m
Arproximate Volume of Fill (including Upstream
Cofferdam and Precofferdam)                                            2.5 Mm3
Concrete Volume including Stilling Basin                         150,000 m3
/1 Above sea level.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Technical Data for the Sidi Salem Dam and Associated Works
Spillway
Type                                                         Gated Chute with Conven-
tional Stilling Basin
Crest Elevation                                                      105 m
Crest width: 3 Openings of 15m plus
2 piers 4.00                                                         53 m
Radial Gates                                                   3 of 15 m x 13.5 m
Length of Chute                                                      212 m
Slope of Chute                                                         0.01 m
Maximum Discharge during Routing of Maximum
Probable Flood (Reservoir Level at 118.5 m)                       4,100 m3/sec.
Maximum Discharge of 100 Year Flood                                1,200 m3/sec.
Diversion Scheme
Upstream Precofferdam
Crest Elevation                                                     82.5 m
Maximum High                                                        17 m
Downstream Cofferdam
Crest Elevation                                                     72 m
Maximum High                                                        10 m
Two Diversion Tunnels:
Bottom Outlets:
Length                                                           720 m
Inside Diameter                                                    8.20 m
Maximum Discharge                                                550 m3/sec.
Slope                                                              0.42%
Supplementary Water Intake
Elevation                                                        110 m
Length                                                           755 m
Inside Diameter                                                    8.20 m
Maximum Discharge of 10G  Year Flood                             760 m3/sec.
Slope                                                              0.53%
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Data on Pumping Stations
Maximuim                       Number
Name of Pumping        Discharge        Maximum         of Unit       Discharge         Installed
Item                                       Station               Pumped           Lift         Proposed       per Unit         Power Capacity
(1/sec)           (m)                         (1/sec)             (kw)
Medjerda-Cap Bon Inter-
connection Canal                       PK 28+300 /1             11,000            17             8              1,600             2,800
PK 78+130                6,080             30             6               800              2,400
Irrigation Area
Testour                               Main Station              1,134            83             5                275             1,600
Secondary Station            59            55             1                60                 20
Medjez el Bab                                       )           1,311            57.5            2               655 )
Main Station              1,783            81.5           3                940 )           3,750
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations                /existing)           480           118             4                200                800
Solimant
\new)               648            96             2                350               600
Belli   (new)            1,451             68             4                400             1,650
/1  PK Kilometer Post
Source:  Feasibility Study - Italconsult 1975                                                                                                  >
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Main Characteristics of Water Intakes on the Medjerda - Cap Bon Interconnection Canal
Canal          Served                               Length of
Item                                    Level           Area           Discharge            Main Pipes
(m)            (ha)            (1/sec)                (m)
Cap Bon Irrigation Subproject
PK 75.941  /l                          30            1,354               960                5,920
PK 78.153                              30              919               645                1,300
PK 85.718                              60              802               585                1,300
PK 88.136                              60            1,152               810                6,400
PK 89.642                              60            1,173               855                1,500
Total                                            5,400            3,855                16,420
Average Discharge per ha (1/sec)                                        0.71
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations
PK 75.941                              30            2,600            1,128                10,900
PK 93.084                              60            3,400            1,451                11,000
Total                                            6,000            2,579                21,900
Average Discharge per ha (1/sec)                                        0.43
/1   Kilometer Post
Source: Feasibility Study - Italconsult 1975
May 1977



ANMizx 4
Table 4
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Technical Data for Irrigation Component
Item                                          Measured            Technical Characteristics for Areas
Units         Testour       Medjez el Bab        Cap Bon
Gross Irrigated Area                             ha             1,575            4,270             5,970
Net Irrigated Area                               ha             1,400            3,800             5,400
Number of Irrigated Sectors                        -                4                 4                5
Type of Irrigation                                -           Sprinkler        Sprinkler         Gravity-
Californian
Losses on Distribution Network                     %                3                 3                3
Field Efficiency                                   %               78                78               65
Water Requirement in Peak Month                 m3/ha           1,470            1,470             1,310
Spacing Between Secondary Pipes                   m               412              460           194 or 388
Spacing Between Hydrants                          m                60                72               45
Sprinkler Pattern                                 m            12 x 12          12 x 12              -
Working Pressure at Sprinkler/Turnout           atmos            2.5              2.5               0.2
Precipitation Rate                               mm/hour         7.8              3.9                -
Discharge of Each Sprinkler                      1/sec           0.31              0.16              -
Total Discharge of Each Lateral                 1/sec            4-.96            2.79               -
Number of Sprinkler Per Lateral                    -               16                18              -
Surface Covered by Each Setting                   m2            2,400            2,600               -
Surface Covered by Lateral in
One Irrigation Interval                         ha              5.76             3.11               -
Size of Parcel                                    m           192 x 150        216 x 144         180 x 185
Irrigation Interval                             days             7.5              7.5              10.0
Number of Setting Per Day                          -                2                 1              -
Irrigation Time for One Setting                 hours               9                18
Distribution Pipelines
Main and Primary Pipe -Total Length            km             22               38                93
Length of Pipes per ha                        m/ha            15               10                17
Secondary Pipe- Total Length                   km             36.4             89.0            246.0
Length of Pipes per ha                        m/ha            26.0             23.4              45.5
Roads
Gravel Roads                                   km             10.5             25.0              60.0
Dirt Roads                                     km             90.0            230.0             350.0
May i977



ANNEX 4
Table 5
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cost of the Buildings, Housing and Milk Collecting Centers
Item                                                                 Cost
(D)
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject
A. Operating Buildings (Regional Directorate)
Office                            150 m                          15,000
Warehouse                         250 m2                         18,000
10 Houses                         800 m                          80,000
B. Three Milk Collecting Centers
Building                          240 m2                         50,000
Miscellaneous Facilities                                          7,000
Subtotal                                                      170,000
Cap Bon Subproject
Operating Buildings (Regional Directorate
and Local Section)
Office (2 buildings)              270 m2                         27,000
Warehouse                          650 m2                        46,800
Workshop                           100 m2                         6,200
15 Houses                       1,200 m2                        120,000
Subtotal                                                      200,000
Total Project                                                 370,000
May 1977



P?ag 1 of 3
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEI( MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
List of Epuipunt and Xaterial to be Pvoeured
Item                                         Quantity       Unit Cost        Total Cet          th"od of
(D '00)        -      Ptoove t /1
I. Under IBRD Loan
Permanent Equipment for Works
Pumps, Motors and Auxiliary
Equipment for Testour/Medjez and
Citrus Plantations                            -             -              3,300              ICB
Construction and Supervision Works
(OMVVM.-PPI - Ministry of Agriculture)
Tractor, 60 hp                                  2             4.0               8              ICB
Tank Trailer                                    2             0.5               1              ICB
Tractor Trailer                                 2             1.0               2              ICB
Caravan                                         2             1.5               3              ICB
Truck,7 ton                                     1             7.0               7              ICB
Mobile Workahop                                 1            12.0              12              ICB
Tank Truck, 4 vheel drive                       1             8.0               8              ICB
Field Vehicle (Land Rover)                      3             4.0              12              ICB
Small Car                                       2             2.0               4             Local
Land Leveller                                   1            25.0              25              ICB
Bulldozer (60 hp)                               2            12.0              24              ICB
Survey Equipxant                                -             -                10             Local
Subtotal                                                                    116
Operation and Maintenance Equipment - Testour/Medjez el Bab.
(OMVVM-PPI Ministry of Agriculture)
Land Leveller                                   1            25.0              25              ICB
Truck, 7 ton                                    1             7.0               7              ICB
Tractor 50 - 60 hp                              2             4.0               8              ICB
Hydraulic Excavator 0.6 m3                      1            25.0              25              ICB
Mobile Workshop                                 1            12.0              12              ICB
Fault Detector for Pipe                         1             4.0               4              ICB
Field Vehicle (Land Rover)                                    4.0              16              ICB
Small Car                                       2            2.0                4             Local
Mobile Radio Equipment                          -             -                 5              ICB
Tractor with Lifting Equipment                  1             5.0               5              ICB
Motorcycle                                      5             0.4               2             Local
Laboratory Equipment                            -             -                 5              ICB
Subtotal                                                                   118
Extension Service for Testour/Medjez and Cap Bon.
(OMVVM-PPI - Ministry of Agriculture)
Small Car                                      6             2.0              12             Local
Motorcycle                                     20             0.3               6            Local
Subtotal                                                                    18
/1   ICB - International Competitive Bidding



page 2 of 3
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
List of EquipWent and Materiala to b- Procured
Item                                        Quantity       Unit Cout      Total Coot      NMthod of
----(D 'OO0)--             Pr .cart na
I. Under IBRD Loan
Equipment for on-Farm Development
(OMVVM-PPI - Ministry of Agriculture)
Wheel Tractor                                40             4.4           176.0               Ica
Cereal Seeder                                16             1.2            19.2               ICB
Sugar Beet Seed Drill                        20             1.2            24.0               Ica
Sugar Beet Top Cutter                        10             2.5            25.0               ICB
Loader                                       10             2.0            20.0               ICB
Seed Processing Appliance                    16             2.7            43.2               icB
Three-Share Plough                           20             0.5            10.0              Local
Overcrop                                     36             0.3            10.8              Local
Harrow                                       36             0.1              3.6             Local
Fertilizer-Spreader                          16             0.4              6.4             Local
Tractor Trailer                              30             1.0            30.0              Local
Animal Drawn Equipment                        -               -68                            Local
Subtotal                                                              375.0
Total Chapter I (D<000)                                             3,927.0
Equivalent (US$ '000)                                               9,425.0
II.  Under other Sources of Financing                                                           /2
Permanent Equipment for Works
Turbine, Alternator and Electric Equipment
for Power Plant                                             -          2,700.0
Hydromechanical Equipment for Dam and
Power Plant                                                 -          2,200.0
Pumps, Motors and Auxiliary Equipment
for Pumping Stations Interconnection
Canal                                                       -          2,250.0
Material for Superstructure of Railroad
(Rails, Signalling and Telecommunications)  -              -           3,103.0
Subtotal                                                           10,253.0
Supervision Works
(DGTH - Ministry of Public Works)
Field Vehicle (Land Rover)                   20             4.0            80.0
Microbus                                      2             6.0            12.0
Truck, 7 ton                                  2             7.0            14.0
Laboratory Equipment                          -              -             10.0
Miscellaneous Materials                                      -             14.0
Subtotal                                                              130.0
/1   ICB - International Competitive Bidding
/2   To be established by each co-lender.



Page 3 of 3
TIUISIA
SIDI SATLD( bULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Liat of Eau±,.nt atd Materiala to be Procur.d
It                                            Quautit7       Unit Coat       Total Coat       Ikthod of
-  (D '000)                 Procura_nt /1
II.  Under other Sources of Financing                                                              /2
Operation and Maintenance - Dm and Interconnection Canal
(DEGTH - Ministry of Agriculture)
Motor Grader                                    1            40.0             40
Bulldozer (60 hp)                               1            15.0             15
Mobile Workshop                                 1            12.0             12
Hydraulic Excavator (125 hp)                    2            45.0             90
Stea_ Roller and Spreader                       1            30.0             30
Crawler Tractor Type Carterpilar                2            35.0             70
Pipelayer (200 hp)                              1            50.0             50
Small Car                                       3             2.0              6
Field Vehicle Type Land Rover                   4             4.0             16
Motorcycle                                     20             0.3              6
Truck, 4 Wheel Drive, 10 ton                    2            30.0             60
Auto Trailer                                    1            60.0             60
Wheel Tractors                                  2            10.0             20
Mobile Crane, 5 and 10 ton                      2            10.0             20
Laboratory Equipuent                            -              -              16
Subtotal                                                                 511
Operation and Maintenance - Paver Plant
(STEG)
Various Equipment  and Spare Parts              -             -              250
Operation and Maintenance - Cap Bon Irrigation Subproject
(OMVVM-PPI - Minis try of Agriculture)
Land Leveller                                   2            30.0             60
Truck, 7 ton                                    2             7.0             14
Tractor, 50 - 60 hp                             2             4.0              8
- Hydraulic Excavator 0.6 m3                    1            25.0             25
Field Vehicle (Land Rover)                      4             4.0             16
Mobile Workshop with Adequate Equipment         1            12.0             12
Mobile Radio Equipment                          -              -              10
Small Car                                       2             2.0              4
Motorcycle                                      5             0.3              1.5
Tank Truck, 4 Wheel Drive                       1             8.0              8
Tractor Trailer                                 5             1.0              5
Tractor with Lifting Equipment                  2             5.0             10
Steam Roller, 10 ton                            1            10.0             10
Survey Equipment                                -              -               6.5
Laboratory Equipment                            -              -              10
Subtotal                                                                 200.0
Total Chapter II (D'000)                                              11,344_ 0
Equivalent (US$ '000)                                                 27,225.0
Total Project (D '000)                                                15,271.0
Equivalent (US$ '000)                                                 36,650.0
/1 ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
/2 To be established by each co-lender.
May 197,



ANNEX 6
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Potable and Industrial Water Supply
Water Demand
1.        The Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia, undertaken by Italcon-
sult in 1969 and updated in 1975, estimated the future requirements for pota-
ble and industrial water. These estimates have again been updated by SONEDE
(National Company for the Exploitation and Distribution of Drinking Water) and
by recent Bank missions in connection with the identification and appraisal of
the proposed Northern Tunisia Water Supply Project. Those projections that
have a bearing on Sidi Salem are summarized in Figures 1 and 2.
2.        Consumption of potable water from public schemes was estimated at
70 Mm3 in 1975 for the five provinces: Tunis, Southern Tunis, Beja, Jendouba,
and Nabeul. Bizerte Province, although included in the Northern Tunisia
Water Master Plan, is supplied separately and is not considered in this
analysis. Present population of the area is estimated at 1.6 million of
which some 1.05 million is served by SONEDE, and it is planned that a fur-
ther 550,000 people will be served by 1990.
3.        Two demand projections have been made:  "Most Probable Estimate"
which assumes an annual increase of 6% in the Tunis and surrounding area;
and a "Reduced Demand Estimate" which assumes an increase of 5% annually.
Both estimates provide for increased per capita consumption from existing
consumers of 1% annually, and also for new connections. Industrial demand
has been based on observed per capita consumption for such usage and pro-
jected as a function of the population. Similar assumptions have been made
for tourism demand, except for the Province of Nabeul, for which Government
projections have been used. The resulting total potable and industrial
water demand includes an allowance of 30% of water sales for unaccounted
water.
4.        At present, water demand in Sousse Province is provided from sources
in the province, but additional water to meet future demands will have to
be provided from outside the province from the Northern Tunisia water supply
complex. The expected additional demand, which is shown in Figure 1, is
expected to reach 25 Mm3 by 1990 and 60 Mm3 by 2000.
Water Supply
5.        The potential capacity of the existing Northern Water Supply Complex
is estimated at 90 Mm3, excluding Bizerte and Sousse Provinces. The Bizerte
system can be enlarged to increase its capacity, but additional supplies for



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Sousse Province will have to be provided from the Northern Water Supply Com-
plex and conveyed via the Medjerda - Cap Bon Interconnection Canal. Three
major increases in capacity are planned through construction of:
(i) the Saida Reservoir which is planned for completion in
1980, and would increase the total capacity by some
18 Mm3;
(ii) the Sidi Salem Dam which would provide 100 Mm3 of potable
water;
(iii) the Djoumine Dam, with an expected 50 Mm3 for potable con-
sumption. Financial assistance is expected from the USSR,
but further engineering studies have still to be completed
and bidding documents prepared, and in consequence it could
not be operational before 1985 at the earliest, and is
likely to be completed only in 1986.
6.        Utilization of Medjerda River water for potable consumption will be
essential in the future, in spite of its high salinity level, which is most
pronounced during the summer months. After construction of the Sidi Salem
Dam, salinity levels during the summer will be reduced (through mixing of
winter and summer releases) to less than 1.9 gram/l, but further mixing with
low salinity water will be required to reduce its salinity still further to a
maximum acceptable for potable consumption of 1.0 gram/l by mixing with fresh
water from existing reservoirs (Kasseb, Ben Metir) and later on from Djoumine.
7.        Additional supplies requîred until 1982 would be pumped from the
Medjerda River and mixed in the Saida Reservoir. Thereafter, increased
potable and industrial consumption would be supplied through releases from
the Sidi Salem Dam as summarized in Table 1 (shown graphically for the "Most
Probable Estimate" in Figure 1 and for the "Reduced Demand Estimate" in
Figure 2).
Economic Justification
8.        An analysis of the potable and industrial water component of Sidi
Salem has been made to determine, first, whether construction of the dam
would be the least cost way of providing the additional water required, and
second to ascertain the contribution made by the potable water to the overall
Sidi Salem Project.
9.        The Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan examined a number of dams
and conveyance systems to provide for increases in Tunisia's water consumption
until the year 2000. It concluded from these studies that construction of the
Sidi Salem Dam would be the least cost alternative. Any other solution would
involve the construction of several dams, and very extensive conveyance systems
to produce 100 Mm3. The only figures available indicate that the least cost



ANNEX 6
Page 3
alternative would be at least D 32.5 million in present value terms. Figures
are not available to show the equivalent discounted cost of constructing a
smaller dam at Sidi Salem to supply 110 Mm3 potable water only, but the eco-
nomic cost of constructing the Sidi Salem Dam to its full utilizable capacity
of 550 MIm3, and associated works (resettlement and relocations) for single
purpose potable water use would be D 17.5 million expressed in present value
discounted at 10%. In addition, to compare costs of Sidi Salem water with
costs of alternative supplies, an amount equivalent to D 0.016/m3 should
be added to the cost of Sidi Salem water to take account of increased main-
tenance and replacements to the distribution system resulting from use of
the more saline water. When capitalized at 10% this would amount to D 6.0
million, making a total discounted cost of D 23.6 million for potable supplies
from Sidi Salem against D 32.5 million for alternative supplies. Sidi Salem
would therefore, without doubt, be the least cost alternative source of new
potable water.
10.       No direct estimates have been made of the economic value of potable
water in Tunisia, so the tariff has been used as a proxy for benefits to
establish a base level for calculation of benefits. Present tariff levels
vary considerably depending on the use:
D Millimes /m3
Tourism                                  150
Industrial                                70
Domestic                                  68 for lst 160 m3/year
then 90 for excess
Stand pipe sales                          30
Public Services                           30
11.       Average tariffs in 1976 were D 0.089/m3 (including 4.3% sales tax).
It is considered feasible to raise the average tariff to D 0.130/m3 by 1980
(equivalent to about D 0.102/m3 including sales tax at 1976 prices) which would
enable SONEDE to maintain its financial rate of return requirements. Distri-
bution costs are expected to be about D 0.016/m3 plus a further D 0.016/m3
allowance for the extra replacement costs resulting from use of the more saline
Sidi Salem water, or D 0.032/m3 in total. When deducted from the tariff, there
would remain a margin of D 0.070/m3 to pay for raw water. Equating benefits
with tariff plus sales tax, the average benefit in the future for raw water
may therefore be assumed to be D 0.070/m3.
12.       Normally, the present average tariff is used as a proxy for benefits
in the analysis of water supply projects (in this case D 0.089/m3) on the
basis that consumers have actually demonstrated their willingness to pay. How-
ever, in the case of Sidi Salem, the principal benefits are agricultural and
projected future agricultural price levels have been adopted. To be consistent,



ANNEX 6
Page 4
the projected potable water tariff of D 0.102/m3, some 11% higher (in real
terms) than the present rate, has also been adopted. Thus, assuming a benefit
for raw water of D 0.070/m3 and the "Most Probable" demand estimate for water,
the rate of return on the whole Sidi Salem Project would be about 11.1%.  If,
however, the Djoumine Dam is completed in 1985 instead of 1986 and consumption
increases at 5.0% annually as projected in the "Reduced Demand Estimate", then
the rate of return of the whole project would be only 10.2%.
13.       The price adopted for potable water in the benefits would not make
very much difference to the overall project's viability, and if the net tariff
level is 15% or 30% or less than the D 0.070/m3 assumed, the rate of return
would not be changed greatly as shown below.
Sensitivity of Whole Sidi Salem Project to Changes in
Tariff Level of Potable Water
Assumed Net Average                 Economic Rate of Return
Tariff Level                        of Whole Project
(D millimes/m3)                        ----- % -----------
50                                  10.5
60                                  10.8
70                                  11.1
80                                  11.4
90                                  11.6
May 1977



ANNEX 6
Table i
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Potable and Industrial Water Supply by Sidi Salem Reservoir
/1       Most Probable /2
Year                    Reduced Demand-          Demand Estimate-
-------------(Million m3)------- - ------
1982                            _                        4
1983                            2                       il
1984                            -                       20
1985                                                    30
1986                              
1987                            -                        1
1988                                                    13
1989                            2                       25
1990                           12                       38
1991                           22                       50
1992                           33                       65
1993                           44                       79
1994                           56                       95
1995                           69                      100
1996                           83                      100
1997                           98                      100
1998                          100                      100
1999                          100                      100
2000                          100                      100
2032                          100                      100
1/ Assumes demand increases in Northern Tunisia at 5% p.a.
Djoumine completed in 1985 (see Figure 2).
2/ Assumes demand increases in Northern Tunisia at 6% p.a-
Djoumine completed in 1986 (see Figure 1).
May 1977



ANNEX 6
I  Figure 1
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
FORECAST OF POTABLE & INDUSTRIAL
WATER DEMAND AND MOST PROBABLE DEMAND
FOR SIDI SALEM WATER
500                                                                                                                500
400                                                                         DEMAND IN TUNIS AREA                   400
INCREASING BY 6% ANNUALLY
SUPPLY AVAILABLE           PLUS ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
WITH DJOUMINE              FOR SOUSSE AREA.
300                                             AN   IIËLM300
300 * ~~~~~~~~~~~(258 Mnm3)30
SUPPLY AVAILABLE
200                               WITH DJOUMINE AND
200                                          THOUT SIDI SALEM
.(158 Mm3)   s_
NEW SUPPLY                     _ /      \'BY SIDI SALEM
~~~~~~~~~~~~WTOT              (10I  SAE DEMAND IN TUNIS AREA INCREASING
u,(0 M3                                                                          BY 6% ANNUALLY
w
W   100 -   PRESENT AVAILABLE SUPPLY                          DF                                                        100
Ir
IEg          (EXCLUDING BIZERTE)                              COVERED BY
W    90
u 80 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI DI SALEM 
80-,
3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DJOUMINE COMPLETED IN 1986.
z    70 -
J, 60 _          
50 _
40 -
10   I  I   I  I  I  I    I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I    I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  i  I  I  I  I  i  1  1
1965           1970           1975            1980            1985           1990            1995            2000
YEAR
World Bank-17099



ANNEX 6
Figure 2
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
FORECAST OF POTABLE & INDUSTRIAL
WATER DEMAND WITH ASSUMED REDUCED DEMAND
FOR SIDI SALEM WATER
500                                                                                                           500
DEMAND IN TUNIS AREA INCREASING BY
5.0%ANNUALLY PLUS ADDITIONAL RE-
400                                                            QUIREMENTS FOR SOUSSE AREA.                    400
SUPPLY AVAILABLE WITH
300                           DJOUMINE AND SIDI SALEM <258 Mm3)                                               300
200                                SUPPLY AVAILABLE WITH                                           *          200
DJOUMINE AND WITHOUT
SIDI SALEM (158 Mm3).\
N       DEFICIT COVERED
NEW SUPPLY                            -            Y II AE
WITHOUT SIDI SALEM                                BY SIDI SALEM
(108  Mm3) >                   /  i
PRESENT AVAILABLE SUPPLY                              -
ux      _ (EXCLUDING BIZERTE)                                              DEMAND IN TUNIS AREA IN-
w   100i-
cc  100 -                      \                    j   -DEFICIT           CREASING BY 5.0% ANNUALLY               100
F-   _____________
w 90
E COVERED BY
80                                                   SIDI SALEM
z    70                                                                 DJOUMINE COMPLETED
O                                                                       I N 1985.
-J   60
50
40
30
20
10 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I i I I I I I I I I I I I I
1965          1970           1975           1980           1985           1990           1995           2000
YEAR
World Bank-17100



ANNEX 7
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Improvement of the Quality of Irrigation Water
in the Lower Medierda Valley
1.        The reduction in the salinity of the Medjerda River waters that
would result from the Sidi Salem Dam was estimated during the first studies
of the Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia. The drop would occur because
the dam would hold back winter flood waters of relatively good quality for
summer redistribution in the Lower Medjerda Valley (32,800 ha to be equipped
for irrigation). The resulting level in salinity would run between 1.7
gram/1 and 2.1 gram/1 over the course of the year and would average 1.9
gramll; these figures were derived by the ORSTOM simulation study.
2.        These levels compare favorably with those of the irrigation water
currently used by OMVVM during the summer. These waters originate mainly
from the Mellegue River and reach a salinity level of 3.5 gram/1 at El
Aroussia and more downstream.
3.        Using the CRUESI 1/ studies of on-farm income as a function of
water quality, Grontmij 2/ estimated that, as a result of the reduction
in salinity, an increase of 10% on the farm output could be predicted for
normal conditions. The Ministry of Agriculture (DEGTH) used this figure
in its 1969 report, as did Italconsult in its July 1970 report.
4.        No account has however been taken of these benefits in the economic
analysis since the benefits from improved water quality would be small com-
pared with the benefits of a continuing assured irrigation supply resulting
from the project which is discussed fully in Annex 19, paras 2-9.
1/   Research Center on saline waters used for irrigation.
2/   Dutch consultants.
May 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Foreign Consultants
1.        To assist project authorities (DGTH and OMVVM-PPI) firms of consult-
ing engineers would be retained for: preparation of final design and tender
documents; evaluation of bids and supervision of construction. In addition,
individual experts would assist the project authorities in the implementation
of the project. Table 1 contains a proposed list of individual specialists.
It is estimated that the overall requirement for experts for the project may
reach a total of 528 man/month (over a five-year period).
2.        For assistance in the construction of the Sidi Salem Dam and associ-
ated works including substructure of the new railroad section the firm Coyne &
Bellier has already been retained to prepare the design and tender documents.
During the construction period the consultant would:
(a) prepare construction drawings;
(b)  assist DGTH in evaluation of bids and supervision of
construction;
(c) prepare operation and maintenance instructions for the dam
and Interconnection Canal, and assist DEGTH in training of
maintenance personnel.
In addition, foreign specialists for a total of 360 man/month would be
engaged to reinforce the site team during the construction period. 110
man/month for an amount of US$660,000 would be supported under IBRD Loan.
3.        To assist OMVVM-PPI in the construction of the irrigation compo-
nents, and the preparation of the final designs and tender documents for the
Cap Bon Subproject, a firm of consulting engineers would be engaged. Terms
of Reference for the engineering consultant would be to:
(a) review existing data available in the feasibility studies;
(b) formulate the final project concept; work out engineering
and construction schedules;
(c) prepare plan, designs, cost estimates, specifications, and
tender documents;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(d) assist in evaluation of bids and make recommendations re-
garding contract awards;
(e) assist project authorities in procurement procedures under
international competitive bidding for relevant equipment;
(f) assist in construction supervision of all civil works;
approve contractor's work schedule;
(g) prepare an operation and maintenance instruction for
irrigated areas; assist OMVVM-PPI in training of mainte-
nance personnel and preparing of regular maintenance
schedule; and
(h) assist the local agriculture authorities in agricultural
production planning, extension methods and irrigation.
In addition, foreign specialists for a total of 168 man/month would reinforce
OMVVM-PPI's engineering staff.
May 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Individual Foreign Consultants
Item                                    Man Months   Unit Rate    Total
(US$/month)  (US$'000)
DGTH - Ministry of Public Works
Under IBRD Loan
Construction Engineer                 24          7,000         168
Construction Concrete Engineer        24          6,000         144
Construction Earthwork Engineer       14          6,000          84
Topograph Technician                  24          5,000         120
Laboratory Engineer                   24          6,000         144
Subtotal                          110                         660
Under Other Sources of Financing
Construction Engineer                 36          7,000         252
Construction Concrete Engineer        36          6,000         216
Construction Earthwork Engineer       46          6,000         276
Topograph Technician                  36          5,000         180
Laboratory Engineer                   36          6,000         216
Experts (Part Time)                   60          6,000         360
Subtotal                          250                       1,500
OMVVM-PPI - Ministry of Agriculture
Experts                              168          5,000         840
iXOTAL:                           528                       3,000
Equivalent in '000 Dinars                                         1,250
May 1977



AMNNX 9
Page 1 of 5
TUNISIA
SIDI SALIN MULTIPUFPOSE PROJECT
Cost E5timates /1
Estimated Coat                            Foreign
Component                                         Local    Foreign   Total          Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
_- ---(D  '000)----         -      --    -~-(US$  '000)------_       Z
Dam and Power Plant Component
Civil Works
Dam, Cofferdam and Associated Works           10,353      9,556   19,909        24,847    22,934    47,781           48
Pover Plant                                    1.612      1,488    3,100         3,869      3,571      7,440        48
Subtotal                                   11,965   -11,044   23,009          28,716    26,505    55,221          48
Equipment
Turbine and Alternator                           836      1,364    2,200         2,006      3,274      5,280         62
Electric Equipment for Power Plant               190        310       500          456        744      1,200        62
Hydromechanical Equipment for Pover Plant    190            310       500          456        744      1,200         62
Hydromechanical Equipment for Dam                646      1,054    1,700         1,550      2,530      4,080         62
Operation and Maintenance                        224        366       590          538        878      1,416         62
Subtotal                                    2,086      3,404    5,490          5,006      8,170    13,176          62
Land Acquisition and Village Relocation          4,715          -    4,715        11,316           -    11,316          -
Administration and Consultants (8%)                835      1,170    2,005         2,004      2,808      4,812         58
Total                                      19,601    15,618   35,219          47,042    37,483    84,525          44
Contingencies
Physical (8%) /2                               1,355      1,085    2,440         3,253      2,604      5,857         44
Price /3                                       4,933      4,075    9,008        11,838      9,780    21,618          45
Subtotal                                     6,288      5,160   11,448        15,091    12,384    27,475          45
Total Dam and Power Plant Component        25,889    20,778   46,667          62,133    49,867   112,000          45
Interconnection Canal Component
Civil Works
Excavation in Soil and Rock                    3,729      2,486    6,215         8,950      5,966    14,916         40
Embankment                                     1,172        782    1,954         2,813    .1,876       4,689        40
Excavation in Tunnel                           1,291      1,056    2,347         3,098      2,535      5,633         45
Concrete for Structures                        8,979      5,504   14,483        21,550    13,209    34,759           38
Concrete for Lining Canal                      4,249      2,717    6,966        10,197      6,521    16,718         39
Masonry and Drain                                694        426    1,120         1,665      1,023      2,688         38
Subtotal                                    20,114    12,971   33,085         48,273    31,130    79,403          39
Equipment for Pumping Stations and Canal           900      1,350    2,250         2,160      3,240       5,400        60
Land Acquisition                                   390           -      390           936          -        936         -
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                 68        103       171           163        247        410        60
Administration and Consultants (15%)             3,228      2,152    5,380          7,747      5,165    12,912         40
Total                                       24,700    16,576   41,276         59,279    39,782    99,061           40
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                 2,477      1,651    4,128         5,945      3,962      9,907         40
Price /4                                       7,548      1,697    9,245        18,116      4,073    22,189          18
Subtotal                                    10,025      3,348   13,373        24,061      8,035    32,096
Total Interconnection Canal Component   34 72          19,924   54,649        83 ,340    47,817   131,157          36
/l   Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976.
/2   Physical Contingencies at 8% for all items except for land acquisition and village relocation.
/3   Price Contingencies vere compounded at 5% to 8% for local co0t; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10%
(after 1979) for foreign exchange - civil vorks; at 8% (1977 ta 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for
foreign exchange - equipment.
/4   Price contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 4% (1977 to 1982)  for
foreign exchange (civil vorks and equipment) financed by People Republic of China.
Currency Equivalents: D 1.00 - US$2.40



SIDI SAMLU IMULTIPUIUE   iZOET
Coat Estifltea /l
E.tiaatad Coot                           Foreign
Composent                                 Lol    Foreign    Total          Local   Fr!4M       Total      ]xs_a_e
------<0   000)---  -----(0*000)----                   z
Railroad Relocation Component
Substructure for New Section
Earthvorks                             1,411     1,479    2,890        3,386     3,550     6,936         51
Structures                             2,020     2,277    4,297        4,848     5,465    10,313         53
Land Acquisition                          15         -       15           36         -         36         -
Subtotal                             3,446     3,756    7,202        8,270     9,015    17,285         52
Administration and Consultants (9%)      292       403      695          701       967     1,668         58
Total                                3,738     4,159    7,897        8,971     9,982    18,953         53
Contingencies
Physical (15%)                         611       574    1,185        1,466     1,377     2,843         53
Price /2                               327       482      809          785     1,158     1,943         53
Subtotal                            938      1,056    1,994       2,251      2,535     4,786         53
Total Substructure for New        4.676      5e215    9.891      11,222    12,517    23,739          53
Section
Superstructure and Other Worlcs
New Section
Superstructure /3                     900      1,200    2,100        2,160     2,880     5,040         57
Signalling and Telecommunications      100       140      240         240        336       576         58
Buildings and Miscellaneous            200       160      360          480       384       864         45
Subtotal                          1,200      1,500    2,700        2,880     3,600     6,480         55
Rehabilitation of the Existing Section
Earthworks                             887     1,150    2,037        2,129     2,760     4,889         56
Superstructure /3                      313       200      513          751       480     1,231         39
Signalling and Telecoumunication       100       150      250          240       360       600         60
Subtotal                          1,300      1,500    2,800        3,120     3,600     6,720         54
Administration (5%)                      275         -      275          660         _       660          -
Total                             2,775      3,000    5,775        6,660     7,200    13,860         52
Contingencies
Physical (10Z)                         280       300      580          672       720     1,392         52
Price /2                               305       330      635          732       792     1,524         52
Subtotal                             585       630    1,215        1,404     1,512     2,916         52
Total Superstructure and Other
Works                             3,360     3,630    6,990        8,064     8,712    16,776         52
Total Railroad Relocation
Component                         8_036     8.845   16,881       19,281    21,229    40,515         54
Road and Potable Water Pipe Relocation Cocponent
Civil Works
Road GP6 l'Oued Zarga                    200       200      400          480       480        960        50
Potable Water Pipe to Tunis            2.858     2,222    5,080        6.860     5,332    12,192         44
Subtotal                           3,058     2,422    5,480        7,340     5,812    13,152         44
Administration (4%)                        220         -       220         528         -        528         -
Total                              3,278     2,422    5,700        7,868     5,812    13,680         42
Contingencies
Physical (5%)                          142       142       284         341       341        682        50
Price /2                               285       285      570          684       684      1,368        50
Subtotal                             427       427      854        1,025     1,025      2,050        50
Total Road and Potable Water Pipe
Relocation Component              3,705     2,849    6,554        8.893     6,837    15,730         44
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976.
/2   Price Contingencies vere compounded at 5% to 8% for local cont; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10%
(after 1979) for foreign exchange - civil vorks; at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for
foreign exchange - equipment.
/3  Including rails, points, expansion joints, etc.
Currency Equivalents: D 1.00 - US$2.40



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cost EstimatesLi
Component                                                             Estirsated Cost                          Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
----- 0(D'OOO) --------         -------(U O$'000) -------        %
Irrigation Component
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject
Civil Works
Pumping Stations and Overflow Dam            425      350       775        1,020       840    1,860         45
Water Towers and Pump Discharge Pipe         297      243       540          713       583    1,296        45
Underground Distribution Pipelines         1,476   1,475    2,951          3,542    3,540    7,082         50
Drainage Network                             382      380       762          917       912    1,829        50
Road Network                                 350      350       700          840       840    1,680        50
Land Preparation and Windbreaks              270        -       270          648          -       648        0
Power Network                                104      103       207          250       247       497       50
Buildings, Housing and Milk Centers           95       75       170          228       180       408       44
Subtotal                                3,399   2,976    6,375           8,158     7,142   15,300        47
Equipment
Electro-mechanical and Transformers          477      740    1,217         1,145    1,776    2,921         61
Portable Sprinkler                           500      765    1,265         1,200    1,836    3,036         60
Operation, Maintenance and Construction   77          175       252          185       420        605       69
. Subtotal                                1,054    1,680    2,734         2,530    4,032    6,562         61
Land Acquisition                                 5      -           5            12      -           12        0
Administration and Consultants (6%)            219      328       547          526        787    1,313        60
Total                                   4,677   4,984    9,661          11,226   11,961   23,187         52
Cont ingencies
Physical (10%)                               464      502       966        1,114    1,205    2,319         52
Frices2                                    1,183   1,309    2,492          2,839    3142    5 981          53
Subtotal                                1,647   1,811    3,458           3,953    4,347    8,300         52
Total Testour/
Medjez el Bab Subproject               6,324   6,795   13,119         j15,79   16,306   31,487          52
Cap Bon Subproject
Civil Works
Underground Distribution Pipeline          2,545   2,545    5,090          6,108    6,108   12,216         50
Drainage Network                             531      532    1,063         1,274    1,277    2,551         50
Road Network                                 500      500    1,000         1,200    1,200    2,400         50
Land Preparation and Windbreaks              141       31       172          338        74       412       18
Land Leveling                                666      550    1,216         1,598    1,320    2,918         45
Buildings and Housing                        112       88      200           269       211       480       44
Subtotal                                4,495   4,246    8,741         10,787   10,190   20,977          49
Operation and Maintenance Equipment             80      120       200          192       288       480       60
Land Acquisition                                 9      -           9           22       -          22        0
Administration (2%)                             72      108       180          173       259       432       60
Consultants                                     36      324       360           86       778       864       90
Total                                   4,692   4,798    9,490         11,260   11,515   22,775         51
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                               455      455       910        1,092    1,092    2,184         50
Price/2                                    2,160   3,311    5,471          5,184    7,947   13,131         61
Subtotal                                2,615   3,766    6,381          6,276    9,039   15,315         59
Total Cap Bon Subproject                7,307   8,564   15,871         17,536   20,554   38,090         54
/l  Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976.
/2  Price Contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10%
(after 1979) for foreign exchange - civil works; at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for
foreign exchange - equipment.
Currency Equivalents:  D 1.00 - US$2.40



ANlEX 
Page 4 of 5
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cost Estimates /L
Estimated Cost                             Poreign
Component                                        Local    ForeiRn    Total        Local    Foreign    Total         Exchane
Irrigation Component (Continued)
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations
Civil Works
Pumping Stations and Intakes                  37         31       68            89        74        163         45
Power Network                                 35         34       69            84        82        166         49
Underground Distribution Pipeline
(935 ha)                                    230       230       460          552        552      1,104         50
Main Pipelines and Structures                489        489      978        1,173      1,174      2,347         50
Subtotal                                   791       784    1,575         1,898      1,882      3,780         50
Equipment
Electro-mechanical                           199        311      510          478        746      1,224         61
Transformers                                  22         34       56           53         82        135         61
Subtotal                                   221       345       566          531        828      1,359         61
Land Acquisition                                 3          -         3            7         -          7          -
Administration and Consultants (4%)             34         52        86           82       125        207         60
Total                                    1,049     1,181    2,230         2,518      2,835      5,353         53
Contingencies
Physical (5%)                                 53         59      112          127        142        269         53
Price /2                                     403        605    1,008          967      1,452      2,419         60
Subtotal                                   456       664    1,120         1,094      1,594     2,688          59
Total Safeguard of Citrus Plantations 1_505        1,845    3,350         3,612      4,429      8,041         55
Agricultural Credit and on-Farn Development
Livestock and Stables for:
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject           1,060          -    1,060        2,544          -      2,544
Cap Bon Subproject                           700          -      700        1,680          -      1,680          -
Agricultural Equipment for OMVVM-PPI           138        237       375         331        569        900         62
Rousings for Settlers                          137          -       137         329          -        329          -
Farm Equipment for Settlers                    100          -      100          240          -        240          -
Subtotal                                 2,135       237    2,372         5,124        569     5,693         10
Price Contingencies /2                         956        106    1,062        2,294        254      2,548         10
Total Agricultural Credit and on-Farm
Development                            3,091        343    3,434         7,418        823     8,241         10
Training Component                                 4         36       40           10         86         96         90
Various Studies                                   42        146       188         100        350        450         77
Total Irrigation Component              12,599    11382   23,981          2        27,316    57,554          47
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976.
/2   Price Contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10I
(after 1979) for foreign exchange - civil works; at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for
foreign exchange - equipment.
Currency Equivalents: D 1.00 - US$2.40



ANEZ 9
Page 5 of 5
TUSIS1A
SIDI SALEM MULTIPRVPOSE PROJECT
Cost Batimates /1
Recapitulation
Estimated Cost                            Foreign
Component                                      Local    Fore      Total       Local    Foreign    Total        Exchange
'------(D   000)------          ----(US$ 000)------ X
Dam and Pover Plant                            25,889    20,778   46,667       62,133    49,867   112,000        45
Interconnection Canal                         34,725    19,924   54,649       83,340    47,817   131,157         36
Railroad Relocation - Substructure for
New Section                                    4,676     5,215    9,891       11,222    12,517    23,739        53
Railroad Relocation - Superstructure
and Other Works for New and Existing
Sections                                       3,360     3,630    6,990        8,064     8,712    16,776        52
Road and Potable Water Pipe Relocation          3,705     2,849    6,554        8,893     6,837    15,730        44
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject                6,324     6,795   13,119       15,179    16,308    31,487        52
Cap Bou Subproject                              7,307     8,564   15,871       17,536    20,554    38,090        54
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations                 1,505     1,845    3,350        3,612     4,429     8,041        55
Agricultural Credit and on-Parm Development    3,091        343    3,434        7,418       823      8,241       10
Training                                            4        36       40           10        86        96        90
Various Studies                                    42       146      188          100       350       450        78
Grand Total                                90&628    7012160,753          217507   168,300   38807           44
Of muwch:
Base Cost                                  66,691    53,157  119,848      160,058   127,575   287,633        44
Physical Contingencies (8.9%)               5,837     4,768   10,605       14,010    11,443    25,453        45
Price Contingencies (25%)                  18,100    12,200   30,300       43,439    29,282    72,721        40
/L Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976
May.1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Proposed Financing Plan
Component                                                                                                                                  Kuvait    Suppliera   Tunisian
Local       Foreign       Total        IBRD        Iran         KFW        China       or OPEC     Credit   Oovermant         Total
_________-__----------------------__________--________________- (UiS $000) ----------------------------------------------------------
Dam and Power Plant                                 62,133       49,867      112,000         -         15,000      28,000        -            -         5,100        63,900      112,000
Interconnection Canal                              83,340        47,817      131,157        -            -           -         54,200         _            -         76,957      131,157
Railroad Relocation Substructure                    11,222       12,517      213,739      12,517         -                                    -            -         11,222       23,739
Railroad Relocation Superstructure                  8,064         8,712       16,776         _-                                                            -         16.776       16,776
Road and Potable Water Pipe Relocation              8,893         6,837       15,730        6,837        -                                                            8-  -  -  ,893  15,730
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject                    15,179       16,308       31,487       16,308        -           -            _           _            -         15,179        31,487
Cap Bon Subproject                                  17,428       19,574       37,002         -           -           -            _         19,574         -         17,428       37,002
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations                      3,612        4,429        8,041        4,429        -           -            _-                       -          3,612         8,041
Credit and On-farm Developuent                       7,418          823        8,241          493              -            -                 -            -          7,748         8,241
Consultants for Cap Bon Subproject                     108          980        1,088          980        -           -            -           -            -            108         1,088
Trainlng                                                10           86            96          86        -            -           -           -            -             10            96
Various Studies                                        100          350          450          350        -            -           -           -            -            100           450
Total                                            2173507      168,8073425.80                         15.000       28.000      54.200       19.574      5.10        221.933      385.807
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Implbmuttioain Sc| duI
IBRD FISCAL YEAR                          1 1977              1978                1979        9        19          |       19t1                19S2                 19S3       1| 94                     1985
CALENDAR YEAR                        1976           1977                197L                 1979                19S0                1981                 1982                1983                 19U
A. UNDER IBRD LOAN
Reilroe ReIffltin - Substruture
- N-w Section
Dniîgn, Tenders. end Contrect Aw rd_
CitiI Wnrik iEerth.,ork. i Strnntoren
Rond Relonstion
D.eign. Tendea and Contrfft Awgnd
Ciil W.r,s
Pon.bi. Weter Supply Pip. Reino1tion
Dugn., Tenders., nd Contrant A-ted
Civil Wprks
Testdor/Medies el Beb SuobprnIet
D.sign. Tendert, end Comntt A-erd
Civi Workt 11rtgin. Dringel.
Roed. etc.)>
Power NtZorik + Tren""n,erf
Elqtro - Meh.niel Equipment
FOrtbie Spnnkler
Opernti.n end Meimtnense EquiPment
Sofeguerd nf Citru- Pisntsn,nns
Denig., Tenders, -nd Controot An-erd
Chlil Works
Pow Netmr,, + Tronstoner-
Eletro - Mechnicgl Equipnent
Aericuletura Credit
Lhredock end Stnble.                                                                                                                                         -                   -
d. UNDER OTHER SOURCES OF FlNANCING
Drt mnd Hydrp Porwr Pi.nt
Ded9n, Tenders,. nd Cnnnrnct Aw rd
CMI WAnrks tDmO, Cofferd.e, en.l
Etennric Equip-n,nn for Pow,r Pl-nt
Hydcnmeshetnisnl Eoùiprnnnt                                                                                         -
Opeention & Meineensene Equipmen-
Ltnd Anuisior end Vi'tgn Hento-
nonion,
inersonensotion Canel
Design, end Contracn Aw-rd
CiVil Wnrks >Eonnhwnrks and Stros-
Hydro - Eltro - Mesh.nicsl Equip.
Operotion d Mtintenance Equipmet
Land AcqiusitiOn
Railroad Re.isetion - Sup.ctruc-r-
Design, Tenders and Contrntq A-erd
Ssi,nmr+st.mrn (Rail,. Telennen, ens.>_                                                    - 
Rnitnbuittimn n Esinnirs Remioetd                            __                         _        e_____
CDp Bon Subprojec
Dns4n, Tenders and Cpntre.t A-ard
Ciil Works (Irigonin. Droinogo 
Rnoade. enc.)
Lend Levellins                                                                                                                                               -
OPorerjon & Mimntenrsns Equipment
CALENDAR YEAR                                 1980                 1981                 1982                1983               1984                 1985                1986               197
Ctlsaiative  Area Equipped  for
Irrigation
Testour/Medjez  el Bab  (5,200  ha)                        1,400                3,300                5,200               5,200              5,200                5,200               5,200               5,200
Cap Bon  (5,400  ha)                                             -                    -              1,800               3,600               5,400               5,400               5,4D0               5,400
Citrus  Plantations  (6,000  ha)                                                                     6,000               6990               6,000                6,000               6,000              6.000
Total Area                                               1,400               3,300               13,000             14,800              16,600               16,600             16  600             16.600
Cumeulative  Area Effectively
Irrigated (including Double Croppina)
Testour/Medjez  el Bab                                        880               1,700                2,600               3,700              4,900                6,100               6,650              6,650
Cap Bon                                                          -                    -              1,800               2,700              4,300                5,400               6,500              7,480
Citrus  Plantations                                              -                    _              6,000               6,000              6,000                6,000               6.000              6000
Total Area                                                 880 1B700                             10_400             12.400              15.200               17.500             19.150              20.130
World Bank 16218



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Component                                                Estimated Cost [1                                     Schedule of Expenditures
Local     Foreign    Total           1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982     1983
-------------------_  _ _ _ _- ----------- - --- -- -- --- (D t 000) -- - ----- -- -- -- - --- -- - -- -- -- -- - ----- -- -- -- --
Dam and Power Plant Component
Civil Works
Dam, Cofferdam and Associated Works              10,353      9,556    19,909           2,400    4,550    5,450    4,185    3,324
Power Plant                                       1,612      1,488      3,100            -         -      1,000    1,500        600
Subtotal                                       11,965    11,044    23,009            2,400    4,550    6,450    5,685    3,924
Equipment
Turbine and Alternator                              836      1,364      2,200            -         -        -       2,200       -
Electric Equipment for Power Plant                  190        310        500            -             -              -         500
Hydromechanical Equipment for Power Plant           190        310        500            -         -        -         500       -
Hydromechanical Equipment for Dam                   646      1,054      1,700            -         -        -         -       1,700
Operation and Maintenance                           224        366        590            -         -        -         250       340
Subtotal                                        2,086      3,404     5,490             -         -        -       2,950    2,540
Land Acquisition and Village Relocation             4,715          -      4,715            400       400    3,000       915       -
Administration and Consultants (8%)                   835      1,170      2,005          1,000       250       250      250       255
Total                                          19,601    15,618    35,219            3,800    5,200    9,700    9,800    6,719
Contingencies
Physical (8%) /2                                  1,355      1,085      2,440            -         500      800       700       440       -
Price /3                                          4,933      4,075      9008             188       862    2,390    3,150    2,418
Subtotal                                        6,288      5,160    11,448             188    1,362    3,190    3,850    2.858          -
Total Dam and Power Plant Component            25.889    20,778    46.667            3,988    6,562   12,890   13,650    9,577          -
Interconnection Canal Component
Civil Works
Excavation in Soil and Rock                       3,729      2,486      6,215            -      2,000    1,500    1,500    1,215          -         -
Embankment                                        1,172        782      1,954            -         500      600       600       254       -         -
Excavation in Tunnel                              1,291      1,056      2,347            -         500      800    1,000         47       -         -
Concrete for Structures                           8,979      5,504    14,483             -       6,971    2,600    2,400        898    1,614        -
Concrete for Lining Canal                         4,249      2,717      6,966            -       3,000    1,500    1,500        966       -         -
Masonry and Drain                                   694        426      1120             -         -         400      400       320       -
Subtotal                                       20,114    12,971    33,085              -      12,971    7,400    7,400    3,700    1,614
Equipment for Pumping Stations and Canal               900     1,350      2,250            -       2,250                 -         -             -
Land Acquisition                                      390           -       390            -         190       100       100       -
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                     68       103        171            -         -         -         -         171       -
Administration and Consultants (15%)                3,228      2,152      5,380            -       2,260       860       860       960      440
Total                                          24,700    16,576    41,276              -      17.671    8,360    8,360    4,831    2,054
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                    2,477      1,651      4,128            -       1,151       900       900      900       277
Price /4                                          7.548      1,697      9,245            -       1.922    1,888    2,480    2,025         930
Subtotal                                       10.025      3,348    13.373                     3,073    2788    3,380    2,925    1,207
Total Interconnection Canal Component          34,725    19,924    54,649              -      20,744   11,148   11,740    7,756    3,26l
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976,
/2   Physical Contingencies at 8% for all items except for land acquisition and village relocation.
/3   Price Contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10% (after 1979) for foreign exchange -
civil works; at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for foreign exchange - equipment.
/4   Price contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 4% (1977 - 1982)  for foreign exchange (civil works and equipment)
financed by People Republic of China.
Currency Equivalents:  D 1.00 = US$2.40



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
TUNIS IA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Component                                                  Estiaated cost LI                                        Schedule of Expenditures
Local      Foreign    Total            1977       1978      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983
Railroad Relocation Component
Substructure for New Section
Earthworks                                          1,411       1,479      2,890           2,000       890        -         -
Structures                                          2,020       2,277      4,297           2,190     2,107        -         -
Land Acquisition                                        15          -          15             15          -       -         -
Subtotal                                          3,446       3,756      7,202           4,205    2,997        -          -
Administration and Consultants (9%)                      292        403         695            395        300
Total                                             3,738      4,159       7,897           4,600     3,297       -
Contingencies
Physical (15%)                                         611        574      1,185             600       585        -
Price /2                                               327        482        809             272       537        -
Subtotal                                            938       1,056      1,994             872    1,122        -
Total Substructure for New Section                4,676      5,215       9,891           5,472     4,419       -          _
Superstructure and Other Works
Neo Section
Superstructure /3                                    900      1,200      2,100             700    1,200        200        -
Signalling and Telecommunications                   100         140        240             -         190        50        -
Suildings and Miscellaneous                         200         160        360             120       210        30       -
Subtotal                                        1,200      1,500       2,700             820    1,600        280       -
Rehabilitation of the Existing Section
Earthworks                                           887      1,150      2,037           1,200       520       317        -
Superstructure /3                                    313        200        513             -         300       213        -
Signalling and Telecommunication                     100        150        250             -         -         250
Subtotal                                        1,300      1,500       2,800          1,200        820       780       -
Administration (5%)                                    275          -        275             100        100        75       -         -
Total                                           2,775      3,000       5,775           2,120    2,520      1,135       -          -         -
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                      280         300        580             230       280        70        -         -         -         -
Price /2                                             305        330        635              92       320       223        -         -         -         -
Subtotal                                          585        630      1,215              322       600       293       -         -          -         -
Total Superstructure and Other Works            3,360      3,630      6,990           2,442    3,120       1,428       -         -          -         -
Total Railroad Relocation Component             8,036      8,845    16,881            7,914    7,539       1,428       -         -          -         -
Road and Potable Water Pipe Relocation Component
Civil Works
Road GP 6 l'oued Zarga                                 200        200        400             -         400       -          -         -         -         -
potable Water Pipe te Tunis                         2,858       2,222      5,08G-<>        2,714    2.366        -          -         -
Subtotal                                        3,058      2,422       5,480          2,714    2,766         -         -          -         -         -
Administration (4%)                                      220          -        220             120        100       -         -         -         -          -
Total                                           3,278      2.422       5,700          2.834    2,866         -         -          -         -         -
Contingencies
Physical (5%)                                          142        142        284             150       134       -          -         -         -         -
Price /2                                               285        285        570             160       410       -          -         -         -         -
Subtotal                                          427        427         854             310       544       -         -         -          -         -
Total Road and Potable Water Pipe
Relocation Component                           3.705      2.849       6,554          3.144    3,410         -         -         -          -         -
/I   Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976.
/2   Price Contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10% (after 1979) for foreign exchange -
civil works; at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for foreign exchange - equipment.
/3   Including rails, points, expansion joints, etc.
Currency Equivalents: D 1.00 = US$2.40



AMNEX 12
Page 3 of 5
TUNISIA
SMID SALD UWLTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Component                                              Estimated Cost Ll                                   Schedule of Expenditures
Local     Foreim    Total            1977     1978      1979     1980     1981      1982      1983
---------<-------------------------------- (D 'OOO) ------------------------------------------
Irrigation Component
Testour/Mediez el Bab Subprolect
Civil Works
Pumping Stations and Overflow Dam                425       350        775           200       200      200       175      -         -         -
Water Towers and Pump Discharge Pipe             297       243        540           100       150      150       140      -         -         -
Underground Distrioution Pipelines             1,476     1,475      2,951           268       975      576       544      588       -         -
Drainage Network                                 382       380        762           200       150      200       150       62       -         -
Road Network                                     350       350        700           -         100      300       300      -         -         -
Land Preparation and Windbreaks                  270         -        270           -         100      -         -        170       -         -
Power Network                                    104       103        207           -          80      -         127      -         -         -
Buildings, Housing and Milk Centers               95        75        170           -         -        100        70      -         -         -
Subtotal                                    3,399      2,976     6,375            768    1,755    1,526    1,506        820       -        -
Equipment
Electro-mechanical and Transformers              477       740      1,217           -         360      600       257      -         -         -
Portable Sprinkler                               500       765      1,265           -         300      500       465      -         -         -
Operation, Maintenance and Construction           77       175        252           -         120      -         132
Subtotal                                    1,054      1,680     2,734            -         780    1,100       854
Land Acquisition                                     5         -          5            -          5      -         -
Adninistration and Consultants (6%)                219       328        547            197      100       100      100        50      -
Total                                       4,677      4,984     9.661            965    2.640    2.726    2.460        870       -         -
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                                   464       502        966            80       260      260       240      126       -         -
Price /2                                       1,183     1.309      2.492            53       399      701       905      434       -         -
Subtotal                                    1.647      1,811     3,458            133       659      961    1.145       560       -        -
Total Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject       6_324     6,795    13,119          1.098    3,299    3 687    3605    1430           -
CaP Bon Subproiect
Civil Works
Underground Distribution Pipeline              2,545     2,545      5,090            -        -         100    1,310    1,290    1,230    1,160
Drainage Network                                 531       532      1,063            -        -         -        250       300      300       213
Road Network                                     500       500      1,000            -        -         -        250       300      300       150
Land Preparation and Windbreaks                  141        31        172            -        -         -        -         -        100        72
Land Levelling                                   666       550      1,216            -        -         -        300       300      300       316
Buildings and Housing                            112        88        200            -                                     100      100
Subtotal                                     4,495     4,246      8,741            _        _        100    2,110    2,290    2,330    1,911
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                 80       120        200                                 -      -         -        200       -
Land Acquisition                                     9          -         9            -        -           9
Administration (2%)                                 72        108       180            -        -          41       40        40        40       19
Consultants                                         36        324       360            -        -         250       30        30        30       20
Total                                        4.692     4.798      9.490            -        -         400    2.180    2.360    2,600    1,950
Contingencies
Physical (107)                                   455       455        910            -        -         -        220       240      300       150
Price /2                                       2,160     3.311      5.471            _        _         124    1,034    1.376    1,785    1,152
Subtotal                                     2.615     3.766      6.381            -        -         124    1,254    1,616    2,085    1.302
Total Cap Bon Subproject                     7.307     8.564    15.871             _        _         524    3,434    3,976    4,685    3,252
/I Discrepancies due te rounding; base prices estlmated as of December 1976.
/2   Price Contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10% (after 1979) for foreign exchange -
civil works; at 8% (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for foreign exchange - equipaxent.
1urrency Equivalents: D 1.00 = US$2.40



XM  12
page 4 of 5
TUNISIA
SIDI SALg< U4LTIYURUOE PJCT
Schedule of Expenditures
Component                                                Estimated Cost LI                                      Schedule of EBSpenditures
Local      Foreign    Total           1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
______--_--___--____--___--- --- ---- ----------- (D 2 000) - ---- -------- -- ----------------- -- --- ---- -
Irrigation Component (Continued)
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations
Civil Works
Pumping Stations and Intakes                        37         31         68            -         -         -          68       -         -         -
Power Network                                       35         34         69            _         -                    69       -         -6
Underground Distribution Pipeline (935 ha)         230        230        460            -         _                   100       360       -         -
Main Pipelines and Structures                      489        489        978            -        _                    767       211       -         -
Subtotal                                         791        784     1,575             -         -         -       1,004       571       -         -
Equipment
Electro-mechanical                                 199        311        510            -         -         -         -         510       -         -
Transformers                                        22         34         56                      -                    56       -         -         -
Subtotal                                         221        345        566            -         -         -          56       510       -         -
Land Acquisition                                       3          -          3            -         -           3       -         -         -         -
Administration and Consultants (47)                   34         52         86                 -               47        20        19
Total                                         1.049      1.181      2.230             -         -          50    1,080    1,100
Contingencies
Physical (5%)                                       53         59        112            -         -         -          50        62       -         -
Price /2                                           403        605      1.008           _         _           22       436       550
Subtotal                                         456        664     1.120             -         -          22       486       612
Total Safeguard of Citrus Plantations          1         1,845      3_350             -         -          72    1566    1712           -         -
Agricultural Credit and on-Fa=m Development
Component
Livestock and Stables for:
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject                 1,060          -      1,060            -         -          80       200       250       260      270
Cap Bon Subproject                                 700          -        700            -         -         -         -         100       300      300
Agricultural Equipment for OWTVM-PPI                 138        237        375            -         -         120       150       105       -        -
Housings for Settiers                                137          -        137            _         _         100        37      -         -         -
Farm Equipment for Settlers                          100          -        100           _         _          100       -         -        -         -
Subtotal                                      2,135        237      2,372             -         -        400       387       455       560       570
Price Contingencies                                  956        106      1.062           _         _           96      127       209       235       345
Total Agricultural Credit and on-Farm
Development Component                        3.091        343      3,434             _         _        496       514       664       845       915
Training Component                                         4         36         40            -          20        20       -         -         -         -
Various Studies                                           42        146        188            -         100        48       -         -          40       -
Total Irrigation Component                   12,599    11,382    23,981
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976.
/2   Price Contingencies were compounded at 5% to 8% for local cost; at 12% (1977 to 1979) and 10% (after 1979) for foreign exchange -
civil vorks; at 87 (1977 to 1979) and 7% (after 1979) for foreign exchange - equipment.
Currency Equivalents: D 1.00 = US$2.40



TUNISIA
SIDI SAILEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Reeapitulation
Component                                               Estimatèd Cost Li                                    Schedule of Expenditures
Local     Foreign    Total           1977      1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
-------------------------------------------(D '000)-----------------------------_________
Dam and Power Plant                                  25,889    20,778    46,667           3,988    6,562   12,890   13,650    9,577          -        _
Interconnection Canal                                34,725    19,924    54,649             -      20,744   11,148   11,740    7,756    3,261         -
Railroad Relocation - Substructure for
New Section                                          4,676      5,215     9,891          5,472    4,419        -        -         -         -
Railroad Relocation - Superstructure
and Other Works for New and Existing
Sections                                             3,360      3,630     6,990          2,442    3,120    1,428
Road and Potable Water Pipe Relocation                3,705      2,849     6,554          3,144    3,410        -        -         -         -         -
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject                      6,324      6,795    13,119          1,098    3,299    3,687    3,605    1,430          -         -
Cap Bon Subproject                                    7,307      8,564    15,871             -        -         524    3,434    3,976    4,685    3,252
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations                       1,505      1,845      3,350            -        _          72    1,566    1,712        -         -
Agricultural Credit and on-Farm Development           3,091        343      3,434            -        -         496       514       664      845       915
Training                                                  4         36         40            -         20        20       -        -         -         -
Various Studies                                          42        146        188            -        100        48       -         -         40       -
GRAND TOTAL                                      90,628    70,12    160,753          16,144        7    30,313   34,509   25,115    8,831    4,167
Percentage                                                                100         10.0      25.9      18.9     21.5      15.6      5.5       2.6
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding; base prices estimated as of December 1976.                                                                                     o
May 1977



ANNEX 13
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEt4 MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Procurament:  Civil Works and Eqcipment
(Procured through IC3 and Local Contracts)
Financing Sources                                       Goverm.ent
for Foreign                Method of /2              Authority
(US$milluont           Excisante  Cost            Procurement                 in Charge
<110$ million)
A.  Sider IBRD Loan
Railroad Relocatios - Substrueture of the New Section/3                           17.3L                    IBRD                        ICB                   MPW-DGTh
Road CP6 - Oued Zarga Relocation                                                   1.0                     IBRD                        ICB                   MPW-DGTH
Potable Water Pipe Retocation                                                     12.2                     IBRD                        ICB                   SONEDE
Subtot1a                                                                      30.5
Testour/oediez el Bab Subproject
Civil Works Pumping Stations, Irrigation, Drainage
and Road Networks (3 contracts)                                                13.7                     IBED                        ICB                   OMVVM-PPI
Pawer hetwork and Transfomer                                                     0.7                     TBFD                        ICB                   OMVvM/STEG
Elootronechanical Equipment for Pusping Station                                  2.7                     IBRD                        ICB                   OMVVM-PPI
Portable Sprinkler Equipsent                                                     3.0                     IBRD                        ICB                   OMWVH-PPI
Eqsipment (Operation and Maintenance,
Coastruction and Supervision)                                                   0.6                     IBTD                        ICB                   OMVWM-PPI
l3oildings, Housing and Milk Centers                                             0.4                     IBRD                        ICB                   OMVVM-PPI
subtotal                                                                      21.1
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations
Civil WMrks (Punping Stations, Irrigation Distribution Network)                  3.6                     IBRD                        ICB                   OMVMPPIPP
Pawer Nftwork and Transforsers                                                   0.3                     IB0D                       ICB                   OMWVM/STEG
Eleetromechanical Equipment for Pumping Station                                  1.2                     IBTD                        ICB                   OMVVWM-PPI
Subtotal                                                                       5.1
Equipment for On-fam Development                                                   0.9                     IBRD                      ICB/LCB                 OMvVM-PPI
Total A                                                                    57.6
O. Under Other Sources  f Financin                                                                                                          5
Das and Pover Plont
Civil WMrks                                                                     55.2              KfW L  and Iran                                          MPW-DITH
llydromechanical Equipent                                                        5.3              KfW /4 andi IrTn                                         MPW-DCTS
Electric Equipmnnt for Power plant (2 contracts)                                6.5               Suppliers Credit                                         STEG
Equipsent (Operation and Maintenance, and Supervision)                          1.4            Tunisian Governient                                         MPW-DGTd
Subtotal                                                                     68.4
Interconnection Canal
Civil WMrks and Equipnent                                                      85.2                    PR China                                            MPW-DGTS
Railway Relocation
Superstructure af New Section and Rehabilitation
af Existing Section                                                           13.2               Tunisian Gavernment                                      SNPFT
Cap Bon Sabproject
Civil Works (3 contracta)                                                       17.2                    Kuwait                                             OMWVM-PPI
Equipment (Operation and Maintenance,
Construction and Supervision)                                                  0.5                     Kuwait                                             OMVVM-PPI
Land Preparation Windbreaks,and Land Levelling                                  3.3                     Kuwait                                             OMVVM-PPI
Building and Rousing                                                            0.5                     Kuwait                                             OMVWM-PPI
Subtotal                                                                     21.5
Total B                                                                   18.3
Total Projeat                                                           245.9
/1   Indicated amounta represents base cost.
/2   ICB = International Competitive Bidding.
ECB = Local CGmpetitive Bidding.
/3   has been included in the crntrant for the Sidi Salem Dam.
/4   The Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) - West Germany
/5   To be determined by each co-lender.
MHy 1977



ANNEX 14
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Diabursement of IBRD Loan
Estimated Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                      Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                            at End of Quarter
---- (US$ Million) -----
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                             -
December 31, 1977                             1.0
March 31, 1978                                6.0
June 30, 1978                                11.0
1978/1979
September 30, 1978                           15.0
December 31, 1978                            18.0
March 31, 1979                               22.0
June 30, 1979                                25.0
1979/1980
September 30, 1979                           26.0
December 31, 1979                            28.0
March 31, 1980                               29.0
June 30, 1980                                30.0
1980/1981
September 30, 1980                           31.0
December 31, 1980                            33.0
March 31, 1981                               34.5
June 30, 1981                                36.0
1981/1982
September 30, 1981                           37.0
December 31, 1981                            38.0
March 31, 1982                               39.0
June 30, 1982                                40.0
1982/1983
September 30, 1982                           40.3
December 31, 1982                            40.5
March 31, 1983                               40.8
June 30, 1983                                41.0
1983/1984
September 30, 1983                           41.2
December 31, 1983                            41.5
March 31, 1984                               41.8
June 30, 1984                                42.0
May 1977



ANNEX 15
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
Dam and Medierda-Cap Bon Interconnection Canal
1.        Operation and maintenance of the dam, the Medjerda-Cap Bon Inter-
connection Canal, and the two pumping stations located on the canal would be
the responsibility of DEGTE in the Ministry of Agriculture. Operation and
maintenance would require creation of one new regional unit for the Sidi Salem
Dam located close to the site of the dam, and utilize a second existing unit
for the El-Aroussia diversion dam. Maintenance and operation of the Medjerda-
Cap Bon 126 km canal would be divided into four operation and maintenance
units or sectors covering an average of 30 km each.
2.        Each of the six operation and maintenance units would be headed by
a chief engineer assisted by a number of other engineers, technicians and
specialized personnel. A senior foreman and two pump operators would be
assigned to each pumping station. About six watermen would control the flow
of water to each lateral intake on the canal according to demand for irriga-
tion and potable water. Existing personnel are well trained and all presently
do a satisfactory job operating and maintaining the Kasseb, Ben Metir, and
Gdir el Goulla Dams.
3.        DEGTH would undertake minor and current maintenance of the dam,
pumping stations, and canal either with equipment purchased under this proj-
ect or by manual labor where appropriate. For major and special maintenance
operations, for example, in the Sidi Salem Dam with its heavy hydromechanic
equipment, DEGTH intends to ca8l upon foreign or local contractors.  The
Government will also: (i) contract with its consultants, Coyne & Bellier
(Annex 8), to inspect the Sidi Salem Dam and its appurtenant structures for
any deficiencies in the operation and to indicate appropriate measures for
its operation and maintenance, (ii) forward a copy of each annual inspection
report to the Bank; and (iii) undertake any action necessary to guarantee
adequate operation, maintenance and repair of the dam and structures.
Irrigated Perimeters
4.        Operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems in the project
area is at present the responsibility of the OMVVM-PPI.  OMVVM-PPI is also now
in charge of implementing and operating of the Medjerda Valley Subproject of
the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, which is being financed by the Bank.
Operation and maintenance is generally satisfactory on the existing works in
the Lower Medjerda Valley which include open channels, concrete lined canals,



ANNEX 15
Page 2
pumping stations, roads and appurtenant structures. OMVVM-PPI would have full
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the main works on irrigated
areas at Testour/Medjez el Bab, Cap Bon, and Citrus Plantations.  To carry out
this assignment OMVVM-PPI would organize one new regional directorate for the
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject located in Medjez el Bab and would reinforce
the existing personnel for the Cap Bon's Regional Directorate located in
Grombalia with a local section in Menzel Bou Zelfa (see Chart No. 16015).
Each regional directorate would have two divisions, one concerned with distri-
bution of water to every irrigated perimeter and the other with minor repairs
and maintenance works. The operating staff would consist of Tunisian engineers,
technicians, appropriate mechanics and pump operators for the pumping stations,
watermen for distribution outlets, and clerical staff. In addition, foreign
specialists would be required for a total 168 man/month to advise OMVVM-PPI
both during construction and at the start of operation and maintenance (Annex
8, Table 1). Selected local engineers would be sent abroad for operation and
maintenance training for a total period of 20 months.
5.        Major repairs and maintenance of works in irrigation areas and all
equipment and vehicles would be the responsibility of the OMVVM-PPI (Central
Division of Operation and Maintenance.) This Division already has a central
work shop located at Tebourba and would under the project be equipped with
two mobile repair units. Most of the equipment would be dispatched from
headquarters to the two regional directorates according to their needs. Some
new equipment (listed in Annex 5) would be purchased to supplement or replace
that presently available. Together, the new and old equipment would be suf-
ficient to meet the needs of both irrigated areas.
6.        The operation and maintenance of the irrigation system beyond the
outlets, including hydrants, ditches, minor structures, and farm roads within
the irrigation unit, would be the responsibility of the farmers concerned.
They would be organized into small irrigation associations which would ensure
that: (i) a strict rotational irrigation schedule be drawn up to allocate
water according to size and need of each holding; and (ii) maintenance be
carried out before the start of each irrigation season. The farmers would
elect among themselves a "common irrigator" who would be responsible for
operating the system and serve as a contact between the farmers and OMVVM-
PPI's Regional Directorate. Irrigation schedules would be determined in
consultation with the extension staff on a monthly basis. Regional direc-
torate OMVVM-PPI staff would supervise the performance of the irrigation
association and would report any operation and maintenance deficiencies to
the Central Management. Farmers would also be responsible for maintenance
of mobile sprinkler equipment; for this they would obtain assistance from
OMVVM-PPI's Regional Directorates.
Other Components
7.        The National Company for Tunisian Railways (SNCFT) would be respon-
sible for operation and maintenance of the relocated railway section from
Oued Zarga to Mastouda via Ksar Mezouar and Beja. SNCFT is now staffed with
satisfactory personnel and has the facilities needed to carry out these
functions.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
8.        The electricity authority, STEG, through its subordinate enterprises
and their units, would be responsible for equipping the Sidi Salem pover plant
and for construction of connecting power lines and transformer posts to supply
electrical energy to the project area. STEG would also be responsible for
operation and maintenance of these works. At present, it is satisfactorily
organized and equipped for this purpose.
9.        The water authority, SONEDE, would be in charge of relocation of
the water supply pipes and would continue to maintain vater supply facilities
(conveyance pipes from Kasseb and Ben Metir Reservoirs to Gdir el Goulla
Reservoir). Directorate of Roads and Bridges in the Ministry of Public Works
would be in charge for maintenance of the main road network.
Cost of Operation and Maintenance
10.       Annual maintenance costs at full development have been estimated
as a percentage of the corresponding investments, i.e, 0.3% for civil works
of the dam, 1% for the concrete lined canal, civil works of the pumping sta-
tions, underground pipe network, road networks, and pressure concrete basins,
2% for drainage channels, and hydromechanical equipment, 4% for portable
sprinkler equipment, and 5% for irrigation pumping equipment, operation and
maintenance equipment.  The estimated yearly cost of maintaining the various
project components is presented in Table 1. At full development (1984) this
cost would amount to D 1,346,000 per year (US$3,230,000).
11.       The estimated yearly cost of operating staff required for the
project is presented in Table 2 and would amount to D 329,000 (US$790,000).
12.       The estimated yearly cost of electrical energy is presented in Table
3 and would amount to D 564,000 (US$1,353,600). It is based on the present
rate of D 0.015 per kwh.
13.       The estimated yearly total cost of operating and maintaining the
facilities for each component and for the entire project is presented in
Table 4 and summarized below for the year 1984.



Itemn                                              Irrigated Areas                               Dam   Canal    Total
Safeguard                                                 Project
Testour/                  of Citrus       Total       Cost per ha
Medjez el Bab   Cap Bon   Plantations   Irrigation   (16,600 ha)
----------------------(D '000)-------        ------  ---- (D)----    ------(D '000)----
Maintenance                   240            172           54          466             28.1      190      690    1,346
Operating Staff                99             80          30           209             12.6       50       70       329
Extension Staff                42             72                       114              6.9         -       -       114
Electrical Energy             175              -         121           296             17.8         -     268       564
Annual Replacement of
Portable Sprinkler            80              -           -            80              4.8        -        -        80
Total                    636            324          205         1,165            70.2       240   1,028    2,433
Equivalent in US$      1,526            778          492         2,796           168.5       576   2,467    5,839
o'
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Maintenance - Annuel Coet
Annual
Investment    Economie        Percentage         Conet for
Item                                                Cost           Life      of Maintenance   Maintenance               1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    19"
(D '000)       (Year)            %              (D '  0              ----------- --     -- -     =- ----. -------(D '000)---------------
Dam and Associated Works
Civil Works                                      23,009           50            0.30                69
operation and Maintenance Equipment                 590           15            5.00                30
Hydromechanical Equipment /l                      2,200           20            2.00       -       44
Miscellaneous /2 (Administration,
Consulting Services, Contingencies)             13.453            -            0.35               47                  -        -         -       -        -        100      190      190
Subtotal                                    39,252                                            190
Interconnection Canal
Civil Worke                                      33,085           50            1.00              330
Equtplent                                         2,421           15            5.00              121
Miscellaneous /2 (Administration,
Conoulting Services, Contingencies)             18,753            -            1.27              239
Subtotal                                    54.259                                            690                 -        -          -       -        -        300      600      690
Testour/Mediez el Bab SubProlect
Irrigation System and Roade                       5,613           40            1.00                56
Drainage Netwrk                                     762           40             2.00               15
Equipuent                                         1,469           15            5.00                59
Portable Sprinkler                                1,265           10            4.00                50
Miscellaneous /2 (Administration,
Consulting Services, Contingencies)              4,005            -            1.50                60
Subtotal                                    13.114                                            240                 -        -          -       140      240      240      340      240
Cap Bon Subprolect
Irrigation System  and Roads                      7,678           40            1.00               77
Drainage Networic                                 1,063            -             2.00               21
Equipment                                           200           15            5.00                10
Miscell neous /2 (Administration,
Consulting Services, Contingencies)              6,921            -            1.00                64
Subtotal-                                   15.862                                            172                 -         -         -       -        -         50      120      172
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations
Irrigation Network                                1,575           40            1.00               16
Equipment                                           566           15            5.00                28
Miscellaneous /2   (Administration,
Consulting Services, Contingencies)              1.206            -            1.08                10
Subtotal                                     3.347                                             34                  -20                                           5         54 - -
Total                                                                                       1,346                 -         _         _       140      260      744   1, »4   1, 34
L/ Excluding turbine, alternator and electrical equipment for pover plnt.
/2   Excluding land acquisitions and village relocation.
Source: IBRD Mission
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPUEPOSE PROJECT
Operation Staff Requirements - Annual Cost
Item                                           Number     Ratio       Amount          1977    1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983      1984
D /Year    (Dinars)         -----------------------------   (Dinars)        ----------------------
Ministry of Agriculture - DEGTH
A. Dam-Interconnection Canal
EngSteers                                       5        4,000       20,000          -            -    -          -         8,000    16,000    20,000    20,000
Technicians                                     9        2,400       21,600          -       -         -          -         4,800      9,600    16,800    21,600
Mechanics                                       4         1,600       6,400          -        -        -          -           -        3,200      6,400      6,400
Chief of Pumping Stations                       3        2,300        6,900          -       ^         -                               2,300      6,900     6,900
Fump Operators                                  6         1,600       9,600          -        -        -          -           -        3,200      6,400      9,600
Watermen for 120 km canal                       6         1,000       6,000          -        -        -          -          2,000     4,000      6,000      6,000
Qualified Workers                              il         1,100      12,100          -                 -          -          2,200     5,500      8,800    12,100
Clerical Staff                                  8        1_200        9600               -             -          -         2.400      6 000      9 600      9.6oo
Subtotal                                     52                    92,200                                                19.400    49,800    80,900    92,200
Miscellaneous Office Expenditures
and Transportation Cost (30'b)                -                    27,800                                                  5.600    15,200    24,100    27,800
Total                                       52                   120.000                                                25.000    65.000   105.000   120,000
OQWM- PPI
A. Testour and Mediez el Bab Directorate
Foreign Experts (Irrigation Engineer)           1       20,600       20,600          -        -      20,600    20,600      20,600    20,600    20,600         -
Engineers                                       3        4,000       12,000          -        -      12,000    12,000       12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
Technicians                                     3         2,400       7,200          -        -       2,400      4,800       7,200     7,200      7,200      7,200
Watermen                                       il         1,000      11,000          -        -       3,000      6,000      11,000    11,000    11,000    11,000
Qualified Workers                              10         1,100      11,000          -        -       3,300      6,600      11 000    11,000    11 000    11,000
Chief of Pumping Stations                       2         2,300       4,600          -        -       2,300      4,600       4,600     4,600      4,600      4,600
Pump Operators                                  4         1,600       6,400          -        -       3,200      4,800       6,400     6,400      6,400      6,400
Clerical Staff                                 20         1,200      24 000          -        -       6000    12000         24.000    24.000    24.000    24.000
Subtotal                                     54                                                               7100        9    0 52.800    71,400  96.80 9  8
Miscellaneous Office Expenditures
and Transportation Cost                       -                     28 200          -        -      15,200    21.600       28.200    28.200    28.200    22.800
Total                                       54                   125.000                          68.000    95.0Q0    125,00    125,000   125.000    99.00O
B. Cap Bon Directorate
Engineers                                       3        4,000       12,000                                                  4,000     8,000    12,000    12,000
Technicians                                     3         2,400       7,200                         -                        2,400      4,800     7,200      7,200
Watermen                                       20         1,000      20,000          -        -         -         -          5,000    10,000    15,000    20,000
Mechanics and Chief of Pumping Stations         5         1,600       8,000          -        -         -         -          3,200      8,000     8,000      8,000
Qualified Workers                               6         1,100       6,600          -        -         -                    2,200      4,400     6,600      6,600
Pumsp Operators                                 4         1,600       6,400          -        .        _                     3,200      6,400     6,400      6,400
Clerical Staff                                 20         1,200      24,000                         -                        6 ooo    12 000    18.000    24 000
Subtotal                  61                                                       5236000    U                                                71,200    8
Miscellaneous Office Expenditures
and Transportation Cost                      -                     25,800          -        -                              8.000    16,400    21.800    25.800
Total                                                          O110000                                                  24.000    70,000    93,000   110,000
GRAND TOTAL COST                                              3555,000                                    9,000    174,000   260,000   32,000   329,000
Source: IBRD Mission                                                                                                                                                                a
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Annual Cost of Electrical Energy
Average    Installed         Annual
Item                                     Lift   Power Capacity  Consumption         Amount  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
(m)          (kw)        (kwh x 10)       -----------------------------------------(D '000)-
Interconnection Canal MCB
Oued el Lil (PK 28+300)              17            2,800           10,000            150     -       -      12       58     71      85    105    118    135    143    147    150
Fendouk-Djedid (PK 78+130)           30            2,400            7,900           118      -       -       -      42      59      68      75      87     98    106    113    118
Subtotal                                         5,200           17,900           268                    12      100    130    153    180    205    233    249    260    268
Testour/Mediez el Bab SubproJect
Testour I and II                     83            1,620            3,536            53             16      27      40      53      53      53      53      53     53      53      53
Medjez el Bab                        71            3,750            8,122            122     -      36      61       91    122    122    122    122    122    122    122    122
Subtotal                                         5,370           11,658           175      -      52     88      131    175    175    175    175    175    175    175    175
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations
Soliman (Cap Bon)                    96            1,400            3,710            56      -       -      56      56      56      56      56      56      56     56      56      56
Grombalia (Cap Bon)                  68            1,650                              65     - 4                     65     65      65      65      65      65      65     65      65
Subtotal                                         3,050            8,040           121                     56     121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121    121
TOTAL PROJECT                                   13,620           37,598           564      -      52    55       352    426    449    476    501    529    545    556    564
Source:  IBRD Mission
May 1977



TONISIA
SIDI SAL5M MULTIPIRPO0E PROJECT
Operation  -d Malnte.a.-e Cfot - CoPbined
Itet                                    Lif.         1979    1980    1981       1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989                  Yr C     d 4 louat. foC Rhlc080 of 1e.a1t
(Yea-)       ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- D '000 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DS  and Pfwer PlaPt                        50
(1982-2032)
Malotenanfe                                          -        -       -        100       190      190       190       190      190       190       190
Operatin8 Staff                                      _        _       10        30        40       50        50        50       50        50        50
Periodic Raplaceent
0f Equip ..t                                                                                        -        -         -         -         -                    1998 590   2002 2,200   2014 -590   2020 - 2,2
Subtotal                                                           10       130       230      240       240       240      240       240       240
Inter.onneCtin Canal MCB                  50
(1982-2032)
Mainte-aace                                                            -       300       600      690       690       690      690       690       690
Op-rating Staff                                      -        -        15       35        65       70        70        70       70        70        70
Electrical Energy                                    -        -       12       100       130      153       180       205      233       249       260
Periodic R.placeent
cf Eqoipaneot                                                        -        - _  _     _       _         _                                         _          1998 . 2,421    2014 . 2,421
Subtotal                                                           27       435       795      913       940       965      993    1.009    1.020
T..touf8M.dle, ai Sb Subpro1ect            40
(1980-2020)
Maintenance                                           -     140       240      240       240       240      240       240       240       240       240
Ope.ating Stff                                      68       93       125      125       125        99       99        99        99        99       99
t.ten-ion Staff                                     17       20        32       37        42        42       42        42        42        42       42
El.eticaîl 0ner-y                                    -       54       8g       131       175       175      175       175       175       175      175
P-riodic Repl aemont of
El.et-oneohaai. Eq.ipanat                          -        -       -         -         -         -        -         _         _         _        -            1795 . 1,469    210 . 1,469
Portable Sprilnter                                 -        -       -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -            1990 - 1,265    20W   . 1,265        2010 . 1,265
Anual Replac,eoft of
Portable Spoikl-r (5)                               _       80        80       80        80        80       80        80        80        80       80
S.btotal                                         85      387      565       613       662      636       636       636       636       636      636
Cap b.. SobPro¶eot                         40
(1982-2022)
Maintenance                                           -       -        -         50      120       172       172      172       172       172       172
Operaati.  Staff                                      -       -        18       50        68        80        80       80        80        80        80
ECefe.onl  Staff                                      -       -        48       56        64        72        72       72        72        72        72
P-riodic Replafeneat
of Equip=ent                                        -        -        -        7        _         _        _          -        _         _        _              1998 - 200       2014 - 200
S.btotal                                                            66      156       252       324      324       324       324       324       324
Safe-uard of Citu  Plantation,             40
(1981-2Ô21)
Muianteoaooe                                          -        -       20        54       54        54        54        54       54        54        54
Operating Staff                                       -       -         6        20       25        30        30        30       30        30        30
Electrical îoe-gy                                     -       -        56       121      121       121       121       121      121       121       121
P-riodie Roploonoant
of Eqipnent                                                                                                           -        -            _ _                 1998 - 566       2014 . 566
S.btotal                                                            82      195       200       205      205       205       205       205       205
TOTAL                                          85      387      750    1_529    2,139    2_318    2_345    2_370    3_340    2_414    2_425
Sooroe   IBRD Mi0,10
May 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE P-r JECT
Cost Recovery and Farm BudgeLs
1.        The Project includes a study to be undertaken by the Tunisian Gov-
ernment which would al'Locate project costsS batween the irrigation, potable
water and power components, and dete-:nirre approprîate recovery charges.  The
study would be completed no 1ater than Se-ptember 30, 1978 and its conclusions
presented to the Bank for approval prior to implemrentation. The study would
allocate project costs in an equitable manner using a mathod acceptable to
the Bank, such as the separable cost/rmaa ir4ng benefit method 1/.  The Gov-
ernment agreed in principle that both the potable water supply and hydropower
components of the project would pay '0O% of capital, operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs allocated to them (see also Annex 6). For the irriga-
tion component, the Governnent agreed that the objective would be to recover
operation, maintenance, replacement and the maximum amount of investment
costs, subject to farmers' ability to pay. Operation, maintenance, and
replacement costs (O & M) would be met through volumetric water charges equal
to or greater than D 6 per 1,000 m3 of irrigation water supplied in the areas
of Testour, Medjez el Bab and Cap Bon, and D 12 per 1,000 m3 of water supplied
to the Citrus Plantations of Cap Bon (in 1976 prices). Water charges would be
adjusted at least once every three years to reflect increases in O & M casts.
Recovery of investment costs would be undertakerL through an investment con-
tribution equal to or greater than D 100 per hectare payable over 10 years at
an interest rate of 5%.
Issues
2.        Once project costs are equitably allocated 5 the major issues will
involve the principLes to be followed in estabi4-i5h Ung irrigation recovery
charges. The appropriate level of irrigation recovery charges would depend
not only on the costs allocated to the irrigation component, but on factors
such as (i) the impact of water charges on the efficiency of water use, dis-
tribution of income between income groups, economic growth, and (ii) public
revenue requirements, farmers' abîlity to pay and the administrative feasi-
bility of implementing the charges proposed.  Present irrigation cost recovery
charges do not cover operation and maintenance costs, and encourage inefLi-
cient use of water. On grounds of efficiency, an increase in volumetric
water charges to at least cover O & M, and indexation to price inflation is
justified. There is an additional argument for recovering 100% of invest-
ment costs.  Irrigation beneficiaries will obtaîn farm incomes per hectare
1!   The separable cost/remaining benefits method first allocates separable
costs to each component, and allocates joint costs on the basis of each.
components share in total (discounted) proJect benefits.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
several times those of farmers not benefitting from irrigation. To permit the
benefits of irrigation to be distributed more equitably, and to facilitate
financing of additional irrigation (or other) projects, the full project costs
should be recovered by Government subject to farmers' ability to pay. The
Government has agreed to such a principle. The key variable is therefore
farmers' ability to pay.
3.        A preliminary analysis of farmers' ability to pay is presented below
in which three alternative cost recovery systems are discussed (Tables 1 and
2). The starting point is incremental farm income generated as a result of
the Project. Incremental income represents a return to (a) farmers' own in-
vestment in farm equipment and livestock; (b) additional family labor utilized;
(c) additional farm management requirements; and (d) Project investment. These
are valued as described in the footnotes in Table 1. Project rent, which
equals incremental income minus items (a) through (c) above, represents the
return to the farmer resulting directly from Project investment (d). In order
for the farmer to be provided with an incentive to participate in the Project,
the Government cannot safely recover more than project rent. Table 1 shows
that project rent equals about 50% of incremental farm income for each farm
s-ze. Farm income is based on data taken from the farm budgets in Tables 3
through 8.
4.        Part B of Table 1 shows that at present recovery charges (a water
charge equal to D 6 per 1,000 m3 of water and a contribution to investment
equal to D 80 per hectare payable over 10 years at a 5% interest rate), the
Government's share in project rent varies from about 18% for the smallest
farmers to 33% for the largest.  The last column of the Table shows that over
the life of the Project, the Government would recover about 22% of the total
project rent accruing to farmers. This is equivalent to 15% of total project
costs (capital, operation, maintenance, and replacement) allocated to the
irrigation component. The streams of costs and of recovery charges through
the life of the Project are shown in Table 2. Even the smallest farmers
would be able to pay significantly higher charges. Total family income ob-
tainable on an irrigated farm of 2 hectares after deduction of water charges
would equal about D 1,690, compared to an absolute poverty family income of
D 480 and present average GNP per family in Tunisia equal to D 1,885 (1976
prices).
5.        Part C of Table 1 shows the impact on rent and cost recovery of the
minimum charges agreed to by the Government. Under this minimum, water charges
would be increased by D 6 per 1,000 m3 of water supplied to Cap Bon Citrus
Plantations, and the contribution to investment would be increased by at least
D 20 per hectare. Under these circumstances, recovery of rent would increase
to about 30% over the life of the Project, and cost recovery would equal 20%.
6.        The preferred recovery structure, given the data available at ap-
praisal, is shown in Part D. It consists of a water charge which would recover
full operation, maintenance and replacement costs (O & M) measured at market
prices. Water charges would be indexed to 0 & M costs. In addition, the con-
tribution to investment would equal an amount per hectare which, with the water
charge, would recover 100Z of project rent accruing to the largest farms.
Since rent per ha increases as farm size decreases, the smaller the farm, the



ANNEX 16
Page 3
lower the percentage of project rent recovered. To further increase progres-
sivity, the smallest farms could be exempted from the investment contribution.
This solution would require a water charge (in 1976 prices) equal to about
D 20 per 1,000 m3 of water supplied to Cap Bon Citrus Plantations, and D 10
per 1,000 m3 of water supplied to the other irrigated areas. The contribution
to investment would equal 90 dinars per hectare and would be payable annually
over the life of the Project (presently farmers pay about 11 dinars per hec-
tare per year for 10 years). This solution would permit the Government to
recover 52% of project costs, 77% of project rent, attributable to irriga-
tion. Recovery charges higher than this would probably erode the incentive
for farmers to participate in the Project.
7.        The recovery charges suggested in paragraph 6 would permit the
majority of farmers an income about equal to the national average. A small
number of large farm families would obtain an income several times the national
average despite recovery of 100% of project rent from them.
bay 1977



TUNISIA                                                                     ANNEX 16
SIDI SALRN MYlTIPBRPOSE PROJECT
Rent and Cost Res-vsey
Fam Modela et Fuîl Development                                             Total Faas Present
Value Over Live cf
Cap Ban                   TestourfMediez el Rab                 Citrus    Plantations  Total Fans        PFrject discounted
Iten                                            2 He       8 Ha             5 Ha        15  a     Dnara              3 Ha         10 Ha      16 H600 Ha             at 10%
-------------- ------------Dinars-----------------------                                             -          (OOO0Dinars)
A. Rent et Fuît DeveloP eet
Farm  Incone Without Froject                    459        639           470         1,092         3,199'          1,190       3,844
Fan Incare With Frojeet                       1,800      4,840         3,417         6,954        21,100           3,304      10,463
Increnental Farc IccomeLi                    1,341       4,201         2,947         5,862        17,901           2,114       8,180
LesB: Retors to Laboi                           147         321           298           333         -                 102         -
Return to Manaeeg nt/r3                  134         630           295           879         4,475             211       1,227
Returo to Inveataent                      134        420           295           586         1,870              211        818
Debt servi.eeA                           142         435           320           260           903             337       1.122
Residual Increcental Incme                      784      2,395         1,739         3,804        10,653           1,253       5,013
lent (Cerrainry Equivalent 80%.)                627      1,916         1,391         3.063         8.522           1.002       4,010       4.733.340             23.471
i.  Fresent ReeoverY Charges                                                                                                                                   I
Volunetric Water Charge                          90         365           226          679         2,263              153        510         786,274    !         4,528
Contribution to Investrents                                                                        2
(First 10 years only)                         21          83            52           156           520              31         104         172,713                596
Total                                 1l1         448           278           835        2J_73              184         614         958,987             S1_24
Roet Recovery Inde- (7.)                         17.7        23.4         20.0          27.4          32.7             18.4       15.3            20.3              21.8
Coet Renovery Index (X.)                          -           -            -             -             -                 -         -               -                14.7
Total Fanily Icome After Charges                1,689      4,392         3,139         6,119        18,317            3,120      9,849             -       |
C.  Mininur Recovery Charges
Volunetric Water Charge                          90         365          226           679         2,263              306      1,020       1,092,325              6,284
Contribution te levest-6enta28
(First 10 years only)                         26         104            65           195           650              39         130         215,982                746
Total                                 116         469           291           874         2,913             345       1.150       1,308,307             7,035
Rent Recorery Index (%)                          18.5       24.5          20.9          28.7          34.2             34.4       28.7            27.6              30.0
Cost Re-covry Index (%)                           -           -             -            -             -                -          -               -                20.2
Total Failly Inon.e Aiter Charges               1,684      4.371         3_126         6,080        18_187           2.959       9.313             -      I
D.  Ostixal R.ecvery Charges
Volonetrin Mater Cherge                         157         635           393        1,181         3,938              532      1,774       1,900,645             10,943
Contribution to Inveetrceets                    -          736           460         1,380         4.584             276         920       1,236.496 47,47
Total                                 157       1.371           853        2561           8,522             808      2_094       3,137.141
Rent Rncovery Indes (X)                          25.0        71.6          61.3         84.1         100.0             80.6       52.2            66.3              77.1
Cost Recovery Index (7.)                          -           -             -             -            -                -          -               -                52.0
Total Faciîy Incone Afrer Chargea               1.643      3_469         2,564         4,393        12,578           2.496       8_369             -
E.  Absolute Poverty Fanily Incone                    -           -             -             -             -               -           -               480    j
Average GNP Per Fanily                            -           -             -                                                                       4 -  -  -  1,885-
F. Public Sector Outlays for Irrigatien
CoP.ponent (Capital, Replacceent,
Operation, Maintenance net of
Prine Contingenciea, Taxes and
Sohsidlea.LS                                    _           -             _            _             -                -           -              -               34,793
/L Derived froc Tables 3 through 10.
/2  Increnental fasily labor is valued at 0.7 diner/cas day.
/3  Valn  cf Managecent le calculated at 10%, 15% and 25% cf increcental incare for differeot fan sizes reflecting increasing oonîpleeity cf  aneagicg larget fans.
/4  Debt sernice ealeolated on a6sunption that 50% cf inernen.tal invastmnt aCd inpits are financed threjgh credit.
/5 This ea, be decomposed as fll1,cs (cea-ured as prescot naIne discounted at 10-):
Capital Ctst (actual pricea, 1977)                              87.0
Operetice aad MaintenanCe Costa, financiat prices               25.4
Total                                               112.4
Allocated ta Irrigation                                         48.4
Less net taxes                                               13.6
Economic Ctsts allocated tc Irrigation                          34.8
May 1977.



ANNEX 16
Table 2
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cost and Recovery Streams Through Time
(Thousand Dinars)
Irrigation
Total Project                  Recovery Costs
Operating                                        Farm
Year            Investment         Costs         Present  Minimum  Optimal        Rent
(Economic      (Financial
Prices)        Prices)
1977               7,057              _             _          _         _         _
1978              12,718              -
1979              19,378             242            -          -         -         -
1980              18,430             538            35         47       113         75
1981              12,858           1,040            67         92       220        200
1982               7,055           2,124           103        140       336        625
1983               1,724           2,971           594        810    1,942       1,089
1984                 -             3,221           682        930    2,230       1,889
1985                 -             3,257           800      1,091    2,616       2,783
1986                 -             3,292           867      1,183    2,836       3,422
1987                 -             3,331           916      1,249    2,996       3,867
1988                 -             3,353           959      1,308    3,137       4,269
1989                 -             3,368           959      1,308    3,137       4,525
1990                 -             5,136           959      1,308    3,137       4,568
1991                 -             3,379           959      1,308    3,137       4,568
1992                 -             3,379           959      1,308    3,137       4,568
1993                 -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
1994                 -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
1995                 -             5,338           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
1996-1997             -            3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
1998                 -            11,040           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
1990                 -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2000                 -             5,136           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
20(1                 -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2002                 -             4,025           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2003-2009            -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2010                  -            7,094           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2011-2013            -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2014                 -            11,040           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2015-2019            -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2020                 -             4,025           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2021                 -             3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
2022-2026             -            3,379           786      1,092    3,137       4,568
Present Value
at 10%          62,616         25,409                     7 5,1§240 23      ,47
Costs Allocated to
Irrigation (43%) (26,925)       (10,926)
O&M Costs in Economic
Prices (72%)                     (7,867)
Volumetric Water Charge                         (4,528)   (6,289) (l7,943)
Contribution to Investment                        (596)       (746)  (7,147)
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Cap Bon: Farm Type I - (2 ha)
Gross Value      Production    Net Value of
Crop                                  Area        Yield       of Production        Cost         Production
(ha)      (ton7ha)     -------------------- D --------------------
Without Project
Wheat                               0.50         1.0              33              19              14
Vetch oats                          0.30         3.0              35              10              25
Leguminous                          0.10         0.8               5               2               3
Winter Vegetables                   0.40        12.0             168              16            152
Summer Vegetables                   0.40        16.0             288              46            242
Fruit Trees (Intercropped)          0.15         6.0              27               4              23
Total                             1.85                         556              97            459
With Project
Wheat                               0.50         3.5             110              31              79
Vetch oats                          0.50         6.0              -                -               -
Winter Vegetables                   0.50        22.0             385              47             338
Summer Vegetables                   1.00       26.0            1,170             174            996
Berseem                             0.50       45.0                                -
Fruit Trees (Intercropped)          0.15        10.0              45               9              36
Meat and Milk                        -            -              407              56             351
Total                             3.15                       2,117             317          1,800
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Cap Bon: Farm Type II - (8 ha)
Gross Value      Production    Net Value of
Crop                                  Area        Yield       of Production         Cost         Production
(ha)     (ton/ha)       -----_-_____----- D -------------------
Without Project
Wheat                               3.00         1.00              198             114             84
Vetch oats                          2.00         3.0                -               -               -
Leguminous                          0.50         0.8                19               9             10
Winter Vegetables                   0.40        12.0               168              20            148
Summer Vegetables                   0.20        16.0               144              26           118
Fruit Trees                         0.65         6.0               117              18             99
Vineyards                           1.00         3.5               133              55             78
Meat and Milk                        -            -                175              73            102
Total                             7.75                           954             315           639
With Project
Wheat                               1.80         3.5               384             113             271
Vetch oats                          1.80         6.0                -               -               -
Winter Vegetables                   1.80        22.0            1,386              191          1,195
Summer Vegetables                   1.80        26.0            2,106              355          1,751
Maize                               0.90         4.5               284              76             208
Berseem                             1.80        45.0                -               -               -
Fruit Trees                         0.65        10.0               195              51            144
Meat and Milk                         _           _             1,598              327          1,271
Total                            10.55                        5,953            1,113          4,840
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Testour/Medjez el Bab: Farm Type III - (5 ha)
Gross Value     Production    Net Value of
Crop                                Area        Yield      of Proudction        Cost        Production
(ha)      (ton/ha)    ---------------------(D)------------------
Without Project
Wheat                             2.50          1.8           297             110              187
Vetch oats                        0.75          3.0            -               -                -
Leguminous                        0.50          1.2            36              14               22
Winter Vegetables                 0.15         12.0            63               6               57
Summer Vegetables                 0.10         13.0            59              12              47
Fruit Trees (Intercropped)        0.65          6.0           117              18               99
Meat and Milk                      -             -             94              36               58
Total                           4.65                        666             196              470
With Project
Wheat                             1.25          3.8           290              84              206
Sugar beet                        1.25         42.0           656             181             475
Berseem                           0.75         45.0            _               _
Sorghum                           0.75          4.5           238              64             174
Vetch oats                        0.50          6.0            -               -               -
Winter Vegetables                 1.25         20.0           875             115              760
Summer Vegetables                 1.25         21.0         1,184             221             963
Fruit Trees (Intercropped)        0.65         10.0           195              40             155
Meat and Milk                      -             -            815             131              684
Total                           7.65                      4,253             836           3,417
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Testour/Medjez el Bab:  Farm Type IV - (15 ha)
Gross Value      Production    Net Value of
Crop                                 Area       Yield        of Production        Cost         Production
(ha)     (ton/ha)      ---(D)---------------------
Without Project
Wheat                               7.00       1.8               832             308             524
Vetch oats                         2.25        3.0                -               -               -
Leguminous                         1.50        1.2               108              44              64
Fruit Trees                        2.00        6.0               360              76             284
Meat and Milk                       -           -                335             115             220
Total                           12.75                        1,635             543           1,092
With Project
Wheat                              2.60        3.8               604             177             427
Sugar beet                         2.60       42.0             1,363             395             968
Berseem                            2.60       45.0                -               -                -
Sorghum                            2.60        4.5               819             234             585
Vetch oats                         2.60        6.0                -                -               -
Sunflower                          1.30        3.0               585             108             477
Alfalfa                            2.60       60.0                -               -                -
Fruit Trees                        2.00       10.0               600             174             426
Meat and Milk                       -           -              4,731             660           4,071
Total                           18.90                        8               _j4             6, 954
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Testour/Medjez el Bab: Farm Type V - (50 ha)
Gross Value      Production    Net Value of
Crop                                  Area         Yield      of Production         Cost         Production
(ha)       (ton/ha)   -------------------- (D)----------      --
Without Project
Wheat                               20.0          1.8             2,376            900            1,476
Vetch oats                           9.0          3.0               -                 
Leguminous                           2.5          1.2               180             75               105
Fruit Trees                          7.0          6.0            1,260             385               875
Livestock                             -             -            1,534             791               743
Total                             38.5                         5,350           2_151            3,199
With Project
Wheat                                8.6          3.8            1,995             576            1,419
Sugar beet                           8.6         42.0            4,513           1,307            3,206
Berseem                              8.6         45.0             --
Sorghum                              8.6          4.5            2,709             774            1,935
Vetch oats                           8.6          6.0               -               -                -
Sunflower                            4.3          3.0            1,935             357            1,578
Alfalfa                              8.6         60.0               -               -                -
Fruit Trees                          7.0         10.0            2,100             609            1,491
Livestock                             -            -            15,643           3,372           12,271
Total                             62.9                        28,895           6,995           21,900
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget
Cap Bon: Citrus Plantations
Gross Value      Production    Net Value of
Item                      Area      Yield      Price      of Production        Cost         Production
(ha)    (ton/ha)   (D/ton)    -------------------- D -------------------
Farm Type VI (3 ha)
Present                   3         18        50           2,700             202            2,498
Without Project           3         10        45           1,350             161            1,190
With Project              3         25        55           4,125             821            3,304
Farm Type VII (10 ha)
Present                  10         18        50           9,000             820            8,180
Without Project          10         10        45           4,500             656            3,844
With Project             10         25        55          13,750           3,287           10,463
F3 19
Coo
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Testour/Medie: el Bab Subprolect
Variable Production Costs/llectare With and Without Prolect
Type 1-10 ha Farm        Type 11-20 ha Pare        Type 21-50 ha Farm        TMme ,tate Fasm
Yield      Physical      Mechanical        Draft                       Rired                    Hired                      Rired                     Hired
Croy                                  per ha        Inputs        Operation       Animal      Subtotal         Labor       Total        Labor         Total       Labor         Total       Laber       Total
(tons)      ---------------------------------------------------------_-----------_--- =(D) ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Without Prolect
Wheat                                 1.8        18,300          25,390           -          43,690            -        43,690          600        44,290       1,600        45,290       4,000      47,690
Vetch oate                            3           10,800         29,250           600        40,650            -        40,650        1,200        41,850       3,200        43,850        8,000     48,650
Leguminous                            1.2         11,600         16,250           -          27,850            -        27,850        1,000        28,850       2,600        30,450        6,500     34,350
Winter Vegetables                    12           25,250          5,980         9,200        40,430            -        40,430        8,300        48,730      22,200        62,630       55,500     95,930
Summ;er Vegetables                   13           95,800          5,980        14,500       116,280            -       116,280       15,700       131,980      41,800       158,080      104,500    220,780
Fruit Trees                           6          27,200             -             -          27,200            -        27,200       10,500        37,700      28,000        55,200       70,000     97,200
With Prolect
Wheat                                 3.8         40,800         25,390           -          66,190            500       66,690       1,800        67,990       2,805        68,995        5,100     71,290
Vetch oats                            6           14,400         37,056           600        52,056          1,000       53,056       3,300        55,356       5,280        57,336        9,600     61,656
Bersee=                              45          24,860          50,986           -          75,846          1,000      76,846        3,300        79,146       5,170        81,016        9,400     85,246
Sorghum           L                   4.5        41,950          40,930           -          82,880          1,900       84,780       6,700        89,580      10,505        93,385       19,100    101,980
Winter VegetablesL2                  20           70,750          5,980         9,200        85,930          6,500       92,430      22,600       108,530      35,585       121,515       64,700    150,630
Suismer Vegetables                   21         145,600           5,980        14,500       166,080         10,800      176,880      38,000       204,080      59,730       225,810      108,600    274,680
Alfalfa                              60           26,550         84,708           600       111,858          2,000      113,858       7,700       119,558      12,100       123,958       22,000    133,858
Sugar beet                           42           87,560         55,679           -         143,239          2,500     145,739        8,800       152,039      13,860       157,099       25,200    168,439
Sunflower                             3           33,300         41,925           -          75,225          2,100       77,325       7,300        82,525      11,495        86,720       20,900     96,125
Fruit Trees                          10           50,450            -             -          50,450         10,400       60,850      36,500        86,950      57,420       107,870      104,400    154,850
/1 Onions, Potatoes.
/2 Cucurbits, Tomatoes, Peppers.
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PBOJECT
Cap Bon Subnroiect
Variable Production Costa /Hectate With and Witheut Project
Type 0.5 ha Fara       Type 6-10 ha Far=        Type 11-20 ha Fama       Type 21-40 ha Fara       Type State Fara
Yield     Phy.ical      Mechanial       Draft                     Hired                   lired                    Hired                   Hired                    Hired
Cr00                                hJ0a        Input.        Ope.otin      Animal      Subtotal        Labor      Total          tL Total              Laborr T                  otal L8    Tot!         Labor     Total
Without Proleot
Wheat                               1         18,300         19,530          -          37,830          _       37,830          _        37,830          700      38,530        1,600     39,430        4,000   41,8S0
Vetch oats                          3         10,800         22,500           600       33,900          -       33,900          -        33,900        1,400      35,300        3,200     37,100        8,000    41,900
1egualaou,      /1                 1.0        11,600         12,500         -           24,100          -       24,100          _       24,100        1,100      25,200        2,600      26,700        6,500    30,600
Wi.ter Veg.table.La                12         23,250          4,600        11,500       41,350          _       41,350          _        41,350        9,400      50,750       22,200     63.550       553500    96,850
S=aer Vegetable.f                  16         55,800          4,600        13,880      114,280          -      114,280          _       114,280       17,800     132,080      41,800     156,080      104,500   218,78Q
Fruit Tre.e                         6         27,200           -             -          27,200          _       27,200          _        27,200       11,900      39,100      28,000      18.290       70,000    97,200
Vineyards                          3.5        33,900         21,000          -          54,900          -       54,900          -        54,900        9,400      64,300       22,200     77,100        55,500   110,400
Citrs                              10         38,500           -           15,210       53,710          -       53,710          _        53,710       11,900      65,610       28,000      81,710       70,000   123,710
With Pprleot
Wheat                               3.5       40,800         20,205          -          61,005          700     61,705        2,300      63,305        4,800      65,805        6,300      67,305        8,700    69,705
Votch oats                          6         14,400         29,180           600       44,180        1,050     45,230        3,600      47,780        7,300      51,480        9,600      53,780       13,200    57,380
Berseer                            45         24,860         40,570          _          65,430        1,330     66,76Q        4,500      69,930        9,300      74,730       12,000      77,430       16,700    82,130
Maize           L_                  4.5       41,950         33,735          -          75,685        2,580     78,265        8,700      84,385       18,000      93,685       23,200      98,885       32,300   107,985
Winter Vegetablesa                 22         70,750          5,275        11.500       87,525        5,500     93,025       18,600    106,125        38,500     126,025       51,000     138,525       68,800   156,325
8aur Vegetablos                    26        145,600          5,275        13,880      164,755        9,700    174,455       32,600    197,355        67,700     232,455       88,100    252.855       121,000   285,755
Existing Fruits                     10        50,450           -             -          50,450        8,300     58,750       28,000      78,450       58,200     108,650       76,400     126,850      104,000   154,450
Citrus                             25        250,250           -           15,210      265,460        8,300    273,760       28,000     293,460       58,200     323,660       76,400     341,860      104,000   369,460
L  Potatoes,Squashes, 0onOs.
/2 Cucurbits, Toacto.S, Peppers.
May 1977



ANNEX 17
Page l
TUNISIA
SIDI SALE2I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Marketing and Markets
General
1.        The project would increase the production of cereals (8,500 tons),
vegetables (66,000 tons), sugar beet (40,000 tons), sunflower (1,000 tons),
fruits (94,000 tons) and forage (150,000 tons).  It would also increase pro-
duction of milk (15,000 tons) and meat (2,400 tons, liveweight). Despite
substantial increases in production of agricultural commodities in the project
area, no serious problems are anticipated in marketing irrigation project out-
puts. The incremental outputs of most commodities (cereals, sugar beet, sun-
flower, meat and milk) would help to substitute for imports and those of
off-season vegetables and citrus fruits would help to expand exports.
Organization
2.        A large number of private traders handle domestic procurement and
distribution of virtually all agricultural commodities in Tunisia. Some of
those traders are organized into cooperative associations, but most of them
operate independently. Exports are also handled by private merchants but
three national trade associations (Trade Association for Citrus and Fruits,
Trade Association for Food Processing and Trade Association for Vegetables)
help them by providing a wide range of market information including prices,
grades and standards, etc. The trade associations are not currently directly
active in the project area but they would provide their assistance to project
farmers indirectly through the advice they furnish to the merchant interme-
diaries. Processing facilities serving the project area, particularly vege-
table and sugar factories, are operating at low capacity because of shortage
of raw materials. Project outputs would enable full utilization of existing
facilities and no additional plants need to be constructed. Other transporta-
tion facilities are adequate to enhance smooth flow of project outputs, but
collection and storage facilities would need to be improved. The Government
has satisfactory plan to improve the marketing facilities.
Marketing of Project Outputs
3.        Fruits.  With the project the production of fruits would increase
by 40,000 tons. About 25% of this is expected to be exported mostly to the
traditional European's markets. The balance 75% would be used domestically,
mainly in the urban markets of Tunisia and Sousse. The domestic demand for
fruits is growing in response to a rising domestic population, income, and
because of a growing tourist industry. The incremental production of
deciduous fruits (4,000 tons) would be used domestically.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
4.        Vegetables.  Most of the vegetables (85%) would be produced in
the Cap Bon area where vegetable and fruit growing is traditional. Tunis
and the North Eastern Coast are natural outlets for the Cap Bon vegetable
production. Demand prospects are favorable due to a rising urban population
and a growing tourist industry. Vegetable exports would be limited to small
quantities of early potatoes and tomatoes to Western Europe - only a small
part of the tomato production would be processed in the existing facilities
which are now operating at low capacity.
5.        Sugar beet.  At full development, the incremental output of sugar
beet would amount to about 40,000 tons per year. This would yield an equiv-
alent of 5,000 tons of sugar, all of which would be consumed domestically.
Currently, Tunisia is a net importer of 80,000 tons of sugar per year, and
project output would substitute for about 6% of these imports.
6.        Cereals.  All the 8,500 tons of incremental output cereals (wheat,
maize and grain sorghum) would be consumed domestically. Current imports of
cereals amount to 300,000 tons per year. Project output would substitute for
about 3% of these imports.
7.        Forage.  The entire project output of forage (150,000 tons) would
be used by a growing livestock population in the project region. The livestock
farms which would be established under the project would absorb the additional
supply.
8.        Sunflowers.  Both domestic and export markets for oil are attractive
and are expected to continue so in the foreseeable future. Presently, Tunisia
imports about 77,000 tons of vegetable and soyabean oils per year. The project
output of sunflower (1,000 tons) would yield an equivalent of 200 tons of oil
(20%) and 800 tons of oilcake (80%). The oil would substitute for about 0.3%
of current imports and the oilcake would be used as livestock feed.
9.        Milk and Meat.  Presently, 40% of national milk production is re-
constituted from imported milk powder (equivalent to about 100,000 1/day of
fresh milk). The production deficit is expected to be even higher in 1976.
Current milk production of some 260,000 tons would have to double by 1980
to meet domestic demand. Project output of 15,000 tons of milk would amount
for only about 5% of the additional requirements in 1980. Tunisia is a net
importer of meat with imports amounting to 5,000 tons in 1975 and expected
to reach 10,000 tons in 1976. The incremental project output would substitute
for only a small part of current imports.
10.       Prices.  In the past few years, declining real agricultural prices,
rising input prices and increasing distortions between domestic and world
prices have been causes for investing concern. Although the Tunisian Fifth
Agricultural Plan is clearly directed at production increases, current Tunisian
price policy seems to reflect a greater concern with stabilizing the cost of
living than with promoting increased production through decontrolling prices.
The case for an optimal price policy in regards to production objectives has
not yet been vigorously enough argued in Tunisia; yet there is a pressing for
more attention to be given to the role cf prices and the development of a
price policy geared to plan performance.
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Labar Raeuiremen]s
(Man-day)
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject                                                               Cap RBon
Without       With      Incremental         %              Without       With      Incremental          %          Without       With       Incremental         %
Month                 Prolect     Prolect     Requirement      Increase          Proiect    Prolect      Requirement      Increase       Prolect      Prolect     Requirement      Increase
-------- Cap Bon Subproject --------------              ------------ Citrus Plantations ------------
January                4,000      14,000          10,000         250              7,800       16,700        8,900           114           66,600      130,000        63,400           95
February               5,400      19,500         14,100          261             17,100       25,600        8,500            49           66,600      126,600        6o,ooo           90
March                  4,800      20,600          15,800         329              7,500       21,600        14,100          188            40,000      40,000          -
April                 11,400      31,300          19,900         174             21,900       64,700        42,800          195            40,000      40,000          -
May                   10,500      42,600          32,100         306             23,900       62,100        38,200          159.           46,600      60,000        13,400           29
June                   7,300      47,000         39,700          544             16,800       57,200        40,400          240            20,000      26,600         6,600           33
July                   8,900      40,200         31,300          332             14,500       58,100       47,600           300            26,600      36,600        10,0(0           38
August                 4,000      18,200          14,200         555              6,600       27,900        21,300          323            26,600      36,600        10,000           38
September              4,600      19,400         14,800          322             18,700       43,700       25,000           134           20,000       30,000        10,000           50
October                5,300      21,600         16,300          307              8,700       60,000       51,300           590            10,000      13,300         5,300           33
November               7,500      21,600          14,100         188             12,100       34,500        22,400          185            10,000      13,300          5,300          33
December               5,600      26,300         20,700          370              7,000       19,000        12,000          171            46,600      70,000        23,400           50
Total               79,300     322,300        243,000          306            162,600      491,100      328,500           202           419,600     623,000       203,400           48
May 1977



ANNEX 19
Page 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return (ERR), on the project including all
components with the exception of power would be 11.1% over a project life of
50 years (see Table 1). The main assumptions made in the analysis are as
follows:
(a) Project construction would start in 1977 and be completed
in 1983. Initial irrigation benefits would occur on about
900 ha in 1980. Full benefits from all project land would
be obtained in 1990, eleven years after commencement of
irrigation (see Annex 2).
(b)  Investment costs have been computed using 1976 prices.
They exclude: (i) taxes; (ii) duties; and (iii) price
contingencies.
(c) The benefits from potable water have been estimated
using projected tariff levels as a proxy for benefits
as described in Annex 6. As shown in that annex, the
potable water component would be the least cost solu-
tion to providing the additional 100 Mm3 potable water
that will be required by 1995.
(d) Economic prices which have been used in evaluating project
agricultural benefits are shown in Table 2. Tradeables
have been valued using world prices derived from Bank
projections for the period 1976-85. Prices of commodi-
ties which are not included in the EAPD 1/ list have
been derived by adjusting domestic prices for their
border equivalent.
(e)  The benefits from flood control works have not been in-
cluded in the economic rate of return partly because of
the difficulty of quantifying such benefits, but mainly
because, whatever assumptions are made, they would make
very little difference to the project's rate of return 2/.
1/   Economic Analysis and Projections Division of the World Bank.
2/   The Medjerda River is already protected against flows with a frequency
greater than once in ten years.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
A study completed by Italconsult in 1976 concluded that
inclusion of flood benefits would increase the ERR by
about 0.2 percent.
(f) Hired labor has been priced at about 1 Dinar per man/day
and family labor shadow priced at about 0.07 Dinar per
man/day.
(g) The cost increase of transport in relation to railway
relocation has been omitted since it would be off-set by
benefits through connecting Beja to the main line (see
Annex 4).
(h) The cost and benefit streams do not include the power
sub-project (see paras 18 to 20 below).
(i) Losses in production resulting from future projected water
shortages in the Lower Mledjerda Valley, if the Sidi Salem
Dam is not constructed, have been taken into account as
described in the following paragraphs.
Benefits in the Lower Medjerda Valley
2.        At the time of preparation of the Northern Tunisia Water Master
Plan it was estimated that there would be more than sufficient water in the
Mledjerda River to supply the needs of the 32,800 ha included in the Minimum
Plan (Plan Minimal) for irrigation development in the Lower Medjerda Valley.
Indeed, it was assumed that with an operational level of 110 Mm3 for the Sidi
Salem Reservoir, there would be some 100 Mm3 surplus water available for a
second phase agricultural development (See Annexes 2 and 6).
3.        The more detailed results 1/ of the ORSTOM Study (1976) indicate
that, without the project, once the Minimum Plan has been fully implemented,
the probability of frequent water shortages over a 20 year period would be
so great that farmers would not find it worthwhile to adopt the high summer
irrigation intensities that have been proposed and would have to settle for
a less intensive and lower value cropping pattern. Thus, for example, the
cropping pattern assumed at full development in the simulation model would
require some 5,800 m3/ha gross at canal head, but if the whole 32,800 ha of
the Minimum Plan were to be developed, then the probability of serious water
shortages by the year 2000 would vary between 30 and 70% of the total water
requirements for 10 years over a 20 year period and quite clearly farmers
would not have enough water for the intensive summer cropping pattern
envisaged.
4.        On the basis of the results of the simulation model, farmers could
however, reasonably expect enough water to sustain a cropping pattern requiring
1/   Appendix Table 1-IV.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
some 4,050 m3/ha of irrigation water at canal head (70% of the requirement
discussed in para 3). In this case the chances of water shortages would be
minimal. Accordingly, without the Sidi Salem Project the cropping pattern by
the year 2000 would have to be designed for no more than 4,050 m3/ha at canal
head.  That means that farmers would not have a water deficit greater than
about one quarter of the requirement more often than 5 years in 20 or more
than about a third more often than 4 years in 20, which is considered accept-
able for the crops which could be grown.  In contrast, the simulation model
shows that, with the Sidi Salem Project, there would only be one year in 20
with any water shortage, but in that year there would be a deficit of 60% in
the requirements for the Minimum Plan, the Testour/Medjez el Bab, Cap Bon and
safeguard of Citrus Project areas.
5.        The magnitude of the economic benefits in the Lower Medjerda Valley
resulting from Sidi Salem have been estimated as the difference between agri-
cultural income with the project and without the project. Increases in income
projected in the recent Irrigation Rehabilitation Project for 15,500 ha in
the Lower Medjerda Valley, in which the water requirements for the projected
future cropping pattern were also 5,800 m3/ha, would be from about D 100/ha
at present to D 450/ha in the future expressed in 1976 economic prices. It is
most unlikely that income would be able to rise above two-thirds of this level
(D 300/ha) without the Sidi Salem Dam, since in most years only 70% of the
summer irrigation water would be available (para 4 above), and the prospects
for producing high value horticultural crops would be greatly reduced. Thus,
as a result of the Sidi Salem Dam, incremental benefits of D 150/ha (D 450/ha -
D 300/ha) may be expected with the project equivalent to D 4.9 million annually
at full development for the 32,800 ha of the Minimum Plan area.
6.        The effect of water shortages without the project could be even
more severe than estimated above, as a result of slightly different assump-
tions made concerning monthly requirements. Thus, although the total annual
and the peak summer requirements estimated in the irrigation rehabilitation
programme and in the simulation model are the same, the simulation probably
overestimates the winter requirements (when plentiful run-of-river water is
available) and underestimates the spring and autumn requirements needed for
the highly profitable supplementary irrigation of winter crops. In conclu-
sion, the model probably understates, rather than overstates the seriousness
of water shortages in the Lower Medjerda Valley without the project. Moreover,
with the project, there would also be an improvement in the quality of summer
irrigation water, following completion of the Sidi Salem Dam, since the more
saline summer base flow of the Medjerda River would be diluted with the less
saline winter flows.  This would not be the case without the Sidi Salem
Project but no additional benefit has been assumed for improved water quality
in the project calculations.
7.        The simulation model also indicates that without the Sidi Salem Dam
there would be water shortages in future in the Bou Heurtma perimeter and even
the existing level of withdrawals of potable water could not be maintained.
It is likely that these deficits could be greatly reduced by refining the



ANNEX 19
Page 4
model so that surpluses in one area can be used to make good deficits in
another. Accordingly, no project benefits were included in the economic
analysis for these aspects.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        The rate of return of the overall project would be rather insensitive
to changes in the estimated values of costs and benefits streams. This can be
explained partly by the large number of components making up the project which
minimizes the effect on the overall project of changes in any one of the com-
ponents, and partly by the nature of the project which has a clearly defined
investment in its initial years, with substantial benefits only after some
years. The effect on the project's rate of return of some major changes
is summarized as follows:
Economic Rate
of Return
Projected rate of return on whole project                             11.1
10% increase in investment costs                                      10.4
20% increase in investment costs                                       9.8
10% decrease in benefits of agricultural subprojects /1               10.6
20% decrease in benefits of agricultural subprojects Fi               10.1
2 year delay in all crop benefits                                     10.2
l year delay in Cap Bon benefits                                      10.9
10% decrease in value of potable water benefits /2                    10.9
20% decrease in value of potable water benefits /2                    10.7
10% increase in all investment costs and 10% decrease
in all benefits                                                      9.6
Slower rate of growth of potable water demand and
completion of the dam in 1985 /3                                    10.2
Lower Medjerda Valley benefits 25% lower than projected               10.5
Lower Medjerda Valley benefits 50% lower than projected               10.0
/1   Testour/Medjez el Bab, Cap Bon and Safeguard of Citrus Subprojects.
/2   Assuming water tariff 10% and 20% lower respectively than projected
/3   Assuming demand for water as projected in the reduced demand estimate,
(Annex 6, para 3).
9.        Unfortunately, it is not possible to measure the rate of return of
individual project components in a meaningful way, since the joint costs of
the dam and the Interconnection Canal represent a large proportion of total
costs and any allocation between different components would be arbitrary 1/.
1/   Arbitrary from an economic but not from a financial point of view.



ANNEX 19
Page 5
Nor is it possible to calculate the rate of return on any one component con-
sidered as a smaller dam and canal sized that would be needed are not avail-
able. Instead, the contribution that the net separable benefits of each
component make to the discounted net present value of the project has been
calculated to verify whether each makes a positive contribution to the whole
multipurpose project. In the table below, a 10% discount rate has been
assumed which is thought to be about the same as the opportunity cost of
capital in Tunisia.
Discounted Present Value of Benefits, Separable Costs and Joint Costs
Net Present
Costs       Benefits            Value
------------- D'000 ----------------
Testour/Medjez el Bab                   11,926         11,118              (808)
Cap Bon                                  7,176         15,521             8,345
Citrus Rehabilitation                    2,742         20,540            17,798
Lower Mledjerda                            -           22,308            22,308
Potable Water                              -           21,784            21,784
Joint Costs                             59,153            _             (59,153)
Total                                   80,997         91,271            10,274
The analysis shows that at the 10% discount rate selected all project compo-
nents have a positive impact on the overall project with the exception of the
Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject, which would make a positive contribution
at discount rates up to about 9%.
10.       In evaluating the various uncertainties that affect the project's
outcome, the effect of delays in the completion of construction of the Inter-
connection Canal have also been considered. If completion of the canal were
to be delayed from 1982 by 1 or 2 years the return for the whole project
would fall to 10.6% and 10.2% respectively. On the other hand, if the con-
struction of the canal was to be postponed indefinitely then the rate,of
return on the remaining project (Testour/Medjez el Bab, Tunis Potable Water,
and Lower Medjerda Subprojects) would be about 12.7%. Even if the value of
benefits from the Lower Medjerda Valley is reduced by 50% the rate of return
on this alternative would still be 10.3%.
The Effect of Delaying the Project
11.       The possibility of delaying the start of the whole project by one
or more years was evaluated in some detail, and its effects on the ERR was
considered assuming that:



ANNEX 19
Page 6
(i) water shortages developed as a result, and
(ii) water shortages would be unacceptable and that alternative
supplies would be exploited.
In the first situation the size of the water shortage that would result from
postponing the Project would be as shown in Annex 6, Figure 1. If consumption
grows more slowly than anticipated, the demand and resulting shortage would be
as shown in Annex 6, Figure 2. The effect of the delay would be to advance the
build up of demand for potable water vis-a-vis the Project, with the result
that the Project's ERR would be slightly improved, despite some increased
costs resulting from further damage from continuing water deficit in the Cap
Bon Citrus Plantations. A one year delay would improve the ERR from 11.1% to
11.3% and a two year delay would further improve it to 11.4%.
12.       However, it is likely that any advantage in delaying the Project
would be nullified by a tendency for construction costs to rise more rapidly
than the value of project output. If, for example, the differential between
rate of. inflation of Project investment costs and benefits was to be 2% then
the Project's rate of return would remain unchanged at 11.1% whether construc-
tion commences in 1977, 1978, 1979 or 1980. Construction costs in Tunisia
have more than doubled in the last two years, and they are likely to continue
to increase rapidly due to "bunching" of several large projects, such as
Djoumine Dam, scheduled for the early 1980's. On balance, there would not,
therefore, appear to be any economic advantage in postponing the Project.
13.       Although the assumption made above might be realistic for one or
two years delay, since consumers would merely have to put up with some incon-
venience, any longer delays would undoubtably cause serious disruption to the
economy.  In this case, the tariff level which has been used as a proxy for
benefits would no longer be a useful measure of the level of benefits and a
sizeable consumer surplus in excess of the tariff would be lost by delaying
the project for long. Unfortunately, estimates are not available of the size
of this surplus, and all that can be said is that the total benefits (tariff
plus consumer surplus), and hence the losses from postponing the Project,
would be much greater than the value of the tariff alone.
14.       In the absence of estimates of the full costs of delaying the Proj-
ect, an alternative approach has been taken by assuming that serious water
shortages would be unacceptable to the Government and that alternative sup-
plies would be provided by such measures as enlarging the storage capacity of
the Saida Reservoir and recycling water used by industry. Estimates made in
the Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan indicate that the average economic cost
of providing additional water would be about D 0.085/m3 capitalized at 10%.
When those additional costs are taken into account it becomes clear that there
would be almost no advantage in delaying the Project (even without the assump-
tion of differential rates of inflation considered in para 14 above) since the
additional costs of providing an alternative supply would more than negate any
benefits from delaying the Project (see Table 3).



ANNEX 19
Page 7
Efficiency of Water Use
15.       An indication of the efficiency of water used in each of the Sub-
projects has been obtained by discounting benefits and costs at 10% to give
a weighted average benefit and cost per cubic meter. Joint costs have not
been allocated and only the separable costs of each component have been
considered. The results are shown below:
Present Value of Benefits and Costs per Cubic Meter Benefits
Separable
Project Component    Water Used /1        Costs           Benefits       Net Benefit
(Mm3)      (D millimes/m3) (D millimes/m3) (D millimes/m3)
Testour/Medjez el Bab    371                 32               30              (2)
Cap Bon                   390                18               40              22
Citrus Rehabilitation    205                 13              100              87
Lower Medjerda            259                 0               86              86
Potable Water             311                 0               70              70
Whole Project
Benefits and
All Costs             1,536               52                59               7
/1   Present value discounted at 10%.
Water for safeguarding and rehabilitating citrus would have the highest net
benefit per cubic meter of water used, but it is interesting that the water
stored for release to the Lower Medjerda Valley during the summer dry season
would also have a high value, since no additional investment or operating
costs would be needed to those already included in the Minimum Plan. At 10%
discount rate the Testour/Medjez el Bab Subproject is borderline, not contri-
buting to the overall project but neither detracting from it. At 9% or any
lower discount rate this Subproject would make a very useful contribution to
the overall Sidi Salem Project. In addition the Subproject has a high priority
within the context of regional development for Northern Tunisia.
B. Hydroelectric Generation
16.       Available water would be used for potable and agricultural uses rather
than hydropower generation (Annex 16, para 1). The selection of a 25 MW hydro-
electric generating plant to work at peak hours only (some 1,600 hours annually)
is consistent with this objective since additional releases from the dam would
not be required to those made for agricultural and potable water purposes.



ANNEX 19
Page 8
Extra peak generating capacity will be required through the next decade
and inclusion of a hydroelectric component in the project would contribute
around 15% of the planned new peak capacity. Since the size of the hydro-
power component would have no effect on the size of the dam, its inclusion in
the project would depend on which would be the least cost alternative, either
to construct the necessary civil works and to install power generating equip-
ment at Sidi Salem or to construct an equivalent size gas turbine plant. An
analysis summarized in Table 4 indicates that at a discount rate of 10%, the
discounted cost of including a hydroelectric component in Sidi Salem would be
less than an equivalent size gas turbine plant. The equalizing discount rate
between the two alternatives would be about 13.2% as shown below:
In Thousand Dinars
Discount Rate                                            13%             13.5%
Sidi Salem Hydroelectric Plant                        4,535           4,453
Gas Turbine Plant                                     4,564           4,368
Net                                                   (29)             85
17.       Inclusion of the benefits and costs of the hydroelectric component
into the overall Sidi Salem Project would have virtually no effect on the ERR
of the latter, increasing it from 11.1% to 11.2% only. The present value of
electricity benefits (discounted at 10%) would be D 6.7 million, or only 7% of
total project benefits. In this calculation the projected future tariff has
been used as a proxy for benefits. The existing tariff structure which is
summarized in Appendix 5 would indicate an average tariff of about D 0.025
per kWh and this rate has also been projected for the future. If the tariff
was 20% higher (D 0.030/kWh) or 20% lower (D 0.020/kWh), it would make
little difference to the contribution of the power sub-component to the
overall Sidi Salem Project.
May 1977



ANNEX 19
Table 1
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MIULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(in thousand Dinars)
Testour/
/1     Operatiy!    IMedjez  3                      Safeguard          Lower15       Potabl,      Total Net
Year      Number     InvestmentL         Costs -       el-Bab -        Ca  13         of Citrus/4     Metjerdg        WaterLg       Benefit
1977         1           7,057              -             -               -               -                -             -           7,047
1978         2          12,718              -             -               -                                                        -12,718
1979         3          19,378              174           -               -               -                _             _         -19,552
1980         4          18,430              387            83             -               -                _             _         -18,734
1981         5          12,858              749           222                             -               -                  -    -13,385
1982         6           7,077            1,529           438             255             270             492            280        -6,849
1983         7           1,724            2,139           626             582           1,068              984           770           167
1984         8             -              2,319           897           1,193           1,500           1,476          1,400         4,148
1985         9             -              2,345         1,352           1,734           2,472           1,968          2,100         7,281
1986        10             -              2,370         1,530           2,260          2,940            2,460            -           6,820
1987        il             -              2,398         1,710           2,575           3,408            2,952            70         8,317
1988        12             -              2,414         1,962           2,767           3,888            3,444            910       10,557
1989        13             -              2,425         2,085           2,976           4,068            3,936         1,750        12,390
1990        14             -              3,698         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,428          2,660        12,700
1991        15             -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          3,500        15,297
1992        16             -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          4,550        16,347
1993        17             -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          5,530        17,327
1994        18             -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          6,650        18,447
1995        19             -              3,843         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        17,387
1996-97    20-21           -              2,433         2,103           3,139           4,068           4,920          7,000        18,797
1998        22             -              7,949         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        13,281
1999        23             -              2,433         2,103           3,139           4,068           4,920          7,000        18,797
2000        24             -              3,698         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        17,532
2001        25             -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        18,797
2002        26             -              2,898         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        18,332
2003-09    27-33           -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        18,797
2010        34             -              5,108         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        16,122
2011-13    35-37           -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        18,797
2014        38             -              7,949         2,103           3,139           4,068           4,920          7,000        13,281
2015-19    39-43           -              2,433         2,103           3,139           4,068           4,920          7,000        18,797
2020        44             -              2,898         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        18,332
2021        45             -              2,433         2,103           3,139          4,068            4,920          7,000        18,797
2022-26     46-            -             12,165        10,515          15,695         20,340           24,600         35,000        93,985
/1  Project investment including physical contingencies but excluding power plant
costs, taxes and price contingencies.
/2 Operations and maintenance cost, and replacements.
/3  Net value of erop and livestock production.
/4 Losses averted plus improvement in production.
/5  Future production losses averted.
16  Industrial and potable water.
/7 Years 46-50 (2022-2026) combined.
May 1977



ANNEX 19
Table 2
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Economic and Financial Prices
Item                               Financial                       Economic'1
----------------(D/ton)---------------
Wheat
Hard                                  66 )
Soft                                  61 )
Maize                                   70                              57
Grain Sorghum                           70                              51
Sugar beet                              12.5                           12
Sunflower                              150                            134
Winter Vegetables/2                     35                              35
Suimmer Vegetables/3                    45                             45
Citrus (maltese oranges)                45-55/4                         45-55/4
Milk                                    90                              90
Meat (liveweight)                      550                            550
NOTE:  Conversions are made at a rate of D 0.42   US$1.
/1 Based on IBRD Commodity Forecasts.
/2 Weighted average of several vegetables including melons, tomatoes,
peppers, cucumbers and leafy vegetables.
/3 Weighted average of onions, potatoes, squashes and other vegetables.
/4 Without project 45 D/ton and 55 D/ton with project.
May 1977



ANNEX 19
Table 3
TUJNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Effect on the Economic Rate of Return of Delaying the
Start of Project Construction Assuming Alternative
Water Supplies Provided to Avoid Shortfall -1i
Economic
Date of Start            Number of            Rate of
of Construction          Years Delay            Return
1977                          0                   11.1
1978                          1                   11.2
1979                          2                   11.2
1980                          3                   11.1
1981                          4                   10.8
1982                          5                   10.8
1983                          6                   10.8
1984                          7                   10.6
1985                          8                   10.3
/l  Assumes "Most Probable" Estimate of Demand as shown in
Annex 6, Table 1 and alternative water provided at cost
of D 0.085/m3. Also assumes that in dry years there
would be shortages of irrigation water in the Lower
Medjerda Valley, which would not be made up by alterna-
tive supplies (i.e. alternative supplies would be provided
for potable needs but not for irrigation needs of the
citrus plantations on the Lower Medjerda Valley).
May 1977



ANNEX 19
Table 4
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streami for Alternative 25 MW
Hydroelectric and Gas Turbine Generating Schemes
(Thousand Dinars)
Eydro Electric Alternative                                Gas Turbine Alternative
Capital      Operation and                        Capital        Operation and
Year       Costs Ml Maintenance L2           BenefitPL3      Costs /4       Maintenance L5      Fuel J6       Benefit L7
1977          -               _
1978          -               -
1979        2,594             -
1980        2,156             -                   -              260
1981          631             -                   -           1,824                -              -              -
1982          -              120               1,000             520               60            514           1,000
1983-1994     -              120               1,000             -                 60            514           1,000
1995          -              120               1,000             260               60            514           1,000
1996          -              120               1,000          1,824                60            514           1,000
1997          -              120               1,000             520               60            514           1,000
1998-2008     -              120               1,000             -                 60            514           1,000
2009        1,557            120               1,000            -                  60            514           1,000
2010        1,293            120               1,000             260               60            514           1,000
2011           379           120               1,000          1,824                60            514           1,000
2012          -              120               1,000             520               60            514           1,000
2013-2022     -              120               1,000             -                 60            514           1,000
/1 Includes only the costs of electricity generating equipment and associated civil works,
but no share of dam construction costs. Assumed 46 years lifetime and replacement of
60% after 30 years.
/2   Assumed to be 2% of total investment.
13   Assuming 40 kWh at an average tariff of D 0.025/kWh.
|4   Assumes US$250/kW and replacement after 15 years.  Expenditure schedule:
year 4 10%; year 5 70%; year 6 20%.
/5   12 operators at D 3,200/year, expatriate repair US$25,000/year and
spares D 10,000/year.
Economic cost of fuel oil assumed D 35/m.t with calorific value of
10,900 kcals/kg and heat rate of 4,000 kcals/kWh.
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Water Demand Used in Test 9
hO8IZCN 2000                  PROGRAMME  9               DEMANDES EN MILLIERS DE M3
SEPr      OCT      NOV       DEC       uAN       FEV       MAR       AVR       MAI       JUN       JUL        ADO    ANî9EE
(401     3000.    looo,       500.         o.        o.        0.        0.     500.    2000.    3000.    3000.   3000.   16C00.
sai`l        G.        0.        n.      90.       5(.   1260.    130o.    1300.             0.        0.        0.        °.    40-(.
0102       300.      30                   s .  3            3 i 0.  3 00.  3 0.  300.     300.      300.       300.      300.    3198.
U 2 2      540.      674.     514.         0.        0.       74.    1200.    1956.   12b4.    1260.    1260.    12b0.  10002.
U1J3      1050.    1050.      9n0.      150.       0O.      750.    135ti.       1 0.   2100.    1650.    16u0.    16b5.  15 ,00.
u2D3         O.        0.        a.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.
u1n04        0.        0         n 0n.                .        O.        0 .       0.        0.        0.        0.        U.         0.
(3i)4      945.     945.      8 1.      1i5.      C40.      675.    1215.    1890.    1e90.    1485.    1485.    1485.  13500.
0105         0.        0.        0.        n.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.        0.         0.
* (1a5     945.      94S.     81n.      135.      r40.      675.    1215.    1890.   1890.    14 b.    1485.    148i.  1350o.
*   1 ,6  2700.      81O.     540.      810.         0.   1080.    1890.    1b20.   1890.   5130.   5400.    5130.  27000.
,u2D6     4590.   270o.   2160.    1080.    1080.   2430.    4320.   5400.    5670.    8100.    8370.    8100.  b4G00.
uit)7     153b.      544.   11R4.       1?R.   1440.        544.      9b0.    1536..   1536.    1536.    1536.    1536.  1.01 b.
u10l      107v.      7f.7.       n.        0.        O.        0.    1335.    1Ji73.   1624.   2003.   2631.    21d2.  13491.
0109     2910.   20 3,           n.        o.        0.        0.   3597. 7     082.    4404.   5420.    7114.    5899.  36509.
.1010        0.        n.        n.                             o.             o.                         .      0.        0.          .
UL;3R   29518.  19520.   31 7 7.    8463.  1072l.  17116.  18294.  25673.  37780.  54628.  67561.  48547. 35098b.
Oil1ia  11381.  10193.   96sh.   9005.    0ol.   8115.   8115.   8708.   9599.  11182.   12370.  12370. 118752.
U1019    1077.       565.    919.       853.      759.      769.      7e9 .     825.    90 9.    1059.    1172.    1172.  11248.
TÛTAL  61568.  424sh.  31512.  20937.  21856.  33788.  45860.  60653.  72856.  98238. 115334.  94116. 701214.
QID4 - Q3D4 = Bou Heurtma III and V  (D4)
QID5 - Q2D5 = Bou heurtlna VI  (D5)
QID6 - Q2D6 = Bou Reurtma I, II and IV  (D6)
QID8           = Testour  (DS)
QDAR           = Lower Medjerda Valley  (DAR)
QIDI8          = Potable and Industrial Water  (D18)                                                                                           H
Source: Exploitation du Modèle de Simulation EAUTUNlA.
H. Dosseur - ORSTOM - Janvier 1977.
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Water Demand Used in Test 10
ri0HIZCN 2000               PROGRAMME 10             DEMANDES EN MILLIERS DE M3
SEHP     O CQT    NOV      DEC'    JAN        FEV      MAR       AVR      MAI       JUN      JUL       AOU   A t EE
0101     3000.    loco.     son.        o.       O.        O.       o.     bon0    2000.   -3000.   3000.   3000.   lbC00.
O. Oi.            n.      q 0      50.    1260.    1300.    1300.         0.        0.       u.        O.  4'000.
U102      300.     300.    300.        8 R .   110.     300.      300.     300.     300.      300.      300.     300.   319  6.
` UL 2   540(.    (74.    514.         o.       o.      74.   12()V.   1958.   1264.   1260.   12zO.   1260. `lG002.
t1Df3    105C.   1050.    900.    10.    600.           750.   13bo.    210o .    2100.    10bo.   1650.   1650.  15000.
020)3       0.       O.        0. 0.              J.       0. 0.              0 .       .        0.       O.        0 <      0.
01l,4       0.       0.        n.       0.       0.        (o       0.        0.       0.        0.       0.        0.       " o
03004     945.    945.    810.    135-    540.          675.   12 1.    d190e-   1d90.    1485.    14d5.   1485.  13500.
0105        0.       O.        n.       n-       O.        O.       O.       n.        O.      C0.        a.        0.       O.
u205      945.    94k.    810.        135.    940.      o7b .   1215.    1890.    le9o.    145.    1485.    1485.  13500.
01D6     27U0.     810.     940.      810.       0.   1 0)(.   1890.    1620.   1890.   5130.   5400.   5130.  27000.
1À2'C6    4590.   2700.   2160.   1080.   1n80.    2430.    4320.    5400.    5670,    8100.    8370.    8100.  5400 .
Q107     1536.    544.   11A4.    120.   1440.    544.            960.   1536.    1536.    1536.    1636.    1536.   14016.
0.       O.       n         .-.               o. °. ° .    0              ° 0°                ° .       .-
109        0.       o.        n.       0.       0.        O.       0.        °-       0.        °        0-        0        0.
01010       O.       O.        n.       O.       O-                  .       .                   0. °.              0.       0.
OD9R   15979.  105A6.   7133.    4581 .   5804.   92b9.   9903.  13897.  20451.  29571.  .36572.  26279. 190001-
10D1a   7441.   6665.   6341.    5888.   5241.    5306.    5306.    5694.   6276.    7311,    80de.    8068.  77645.
01019     704.     631.    601.       558.    496.    503.        503.     539.      594.    692.       766.     76b.    7353.
TOTAL  39730.  26830.  21793.  13643.   15901.  22862.  29462.  38022.  45861.  61520.  69912.  59079. 445215.
Source:   Exploitation du Modèle de Simulation EAUTUN IA.
H. Dosseur - ORSTOM - Janvier 1977.
May 1977



SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSI» PROJECT
Water Deficit  in Test 9   With Sidi Salem Case
MPOIlUN  2000         SERTE   Q        tSSAI   1               hMAX  SIDI SALEM  110 M           :       NUM&tU  33
[£EFTcITS ANNUELS CLi;SSES (EN MILLIONS M3)
H      cENJaU DEMANDE D4        E EM A N   )  DE 0 ANDE D6)   DEMANDE 0)8    DE,MANUE  )A R   DEMANDE C18   RANG
1      4.46  (19)       4.4t6  (lQ)    2f0.20  (19)        3. 4  (19)   211.00  <19)    54.40  (19),             1
2      0.94  (20)        O.Q4  (20)    11.Q   (11).    0.()   ( 1)           0.o   ( 1)    41.30  (18),          2
3      0.0   '  1)       0.0      1) 10.0  (12)            n 0.0               0   ( 2)    ?h.30  (12)           3
.4     0.0     2)      0.0   ( P        5. 6s   13)      0.0        3)    0 . 0     3)    21.10  (11)          4
5       0.0   ( 3)       0.n   (  )       li. 31  ()       0.0   ( 41       0.0 (   4)    20.50  (17)            5
à      é.0   ( 4)        0.0   ( h)       5.04  ( 4)       0 .0      )        .0      5)    15.90  ( 7)          6
7       0.f0       5)    0.0 (   i)       5.01  ()           0               c 6)  I.           . 15,90  < P)    7
:  000   ( 6>    n.0   ( C?        . 7  (14)       0. 0   ( 7)       0.0   ( 7)    14.90  ( 2)           8
9      o.0   C 7)        0.n   C 7)       2.26  ( 7)       0.0   ( R)       C.0   ( 8)    14.30  (20)            9
10      0O0   ( d)         .n   ( R)       1.Ss ( rM)'      (.0   ( 9)        (.0    ( 9)    13.00  (14)>         0
il       0.0   ( 9)        .0   ( Q        0 .Q - Q  3)     0.0   (10)        0. G   (1<))     9.61  (13)       1i1
12       0.0   (10)       0.0   (10)       0.n   (1M')      0.0   (11)        0.0   (11)       8.68  ( 1)        1?
13       0.0   (11)        .n0  (11)       0.7 0  ( )       0.0   (1?)        0.0   <12>       7..85  (10)       13
1 4      (J.0   (12)      0.n   (12)       0. &S  <17).    0n   (1n3)         O.0    13)       7.75  C 6)        14
15       0.0   113)       0.0   (13)       0 .54  (lf).    0. 0   <14)      0(.0   (14)       7.56  (16)        15
00   <14)        r.n   (14)       0.40)    1)      0.0   (15)       0.o   (15)        4.(0  ( 9)        16
17       00   ( 15> 0I D1)                  0.    C 2()     0O   ( 1n)        0 .    (l)       3 .2 5  (1 5)     17
ld       0.0   (lc)       0.0   (lF^)      0.0   C W)       0.0   (1 7)      0.0    17)        0.34     5)       18
19       0.0    1 7)      0.0   <17)       0.0   (10)       O.0   (18)       0.0   (18)        0.31 1    3)      1 9
0J G.0l  (1h)    n0.0   e1R)      0.0)  (1%î       0.0   <20)       0 . 0   (.2)      0.0   ( 4)'    20
Source: Exploitation du Modèle de Simulation EAUTUN LA.
H. Dosseur - ORSTOM - Janvier 1977.
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Water Deficit in Test 10 - Without Sidi Salem Case
-Iç0m1/UN clOO       SE1IF  i0          S S AI   1             HMAX SIDI SALE,  f5 iM                    NUMEc0  34
mDrFTcjTS  ANNUELS CLAhDSES  (EN MILtLI)NS  M3)
k,;P 'IJ   UcVVN`LlE L)4   U)M'  DF 1)   fD)liANt)jE  DL    l)EMANVE  iR    UFMANIl)E UAP-  DOEMANL)E 018   RANG
1   s .52  (19)                  I (]o   37.60  ( 1)  n .0   ( 1)   147.00  (19)    19.iO   (19)-                 1
;?                              (1.1   (il)  I   <11)    36.90  (  0.0    ( 7)   134. 0O0  (11)    19.20  (IF)*   2
3    . .1J)  ( )3>    t:;.78t (          34.i()  (1i] )     00   ( »)   111.00l7    C 5-      14.00  < 7)         3
4 C . 8 ( 7 ) F fm 7 ~~~-i4        qo   I If  iS     )1    )  ( ) .  O)  (   4   )  1 05.k .       1  1   .  3 0  (   2 ) 
4       *S3(7)           O.s7  [)6)    27.60n(              O  .0    C4)   105.o0  (1 h       11.30  C  )         4
b     *.79  ( 1)          :.34  (If)    2 3 .,)  ( 7)       (.0   ( ')      94.20  (17)       11.10  <0)          5
°   .6fa7  (lh)  4.  (9 1)    ?3.10  (1).           0.0    t 8)    91.70  ( 7)    1 0.00  ( 6)            6
7      5.67  <Jm)        4.]1  ( 7)    19.90  (J8)          0.0   ( 7)    84.70  (12)          9.40  (12)         7
e 4*.22  (17)-   3.7q  (17)    19.10  (1 3)>        0.0   (  )    6q.40  (<15)         8.69  C 8)    .8
9      3.38  (1?)        ?.132)    1.7       0  <16)n 0.) C q>    64.70  <10)                  8.02  C 1)         9
10    ~ .30  (1~i)        1AO             1 - l-.50    17>-  0.0   (10)   15.920  C 1)          7.46  ( 5)        10
1l       2.4+3  (10)      ].55  (loi      14.7il (<1i)       0.n   (11)    48.9(J  (13)         7.40  C 3)        il
12       1.C7  (lil       0.94  (- 2)    1?.0  (<14).        0.0   (12)    48.10  (1h)          6b3b  (13)        12
13       1.16  (14)-      0.94  ( 8I)      9. 0   (20)       0.0   (13)    17.70  C 6)          4.34  (17)        13
14       0.94  ( 2)       0.94  (13) j.70  ( 2>              0.0   (14)    16.20  ( 4)          3.93  ( 4)        14
1D       0.';4  C 6)      0.94  (2n)       6.62  ( 4)        0.n   (1>)       8.92  (14)        3.93  ( 9)        15
16      J 0.94 ( E).      0.44  C C)          . 4  (10))   .i0  (16)          6.40  C 9)        3.93  (1 ))       16
17       0.94    9) )-    0.20  ( f)       4.67  (.6)        0.0   (17)       0.n       2 )     3. 3  (II)j    17
0.94  (20)   . n.n2  (14)         3.R8   ( .3)      0.0  (<)         0.0       3)      3e93  (14)        1 1H
19       0.0    ( 3)      0.0   ( q)       3.50  C. 6)       0.C   (19)       n.0   C 6)        3.93  (15) >      19
20       0.0   < 4)       n.n   ( 4)       0.81 I  9)        0.0   (20)        0.n   (20)       3.93  (16)  -  20
Sourze;  Exploitation du Modèle de Simulation KAUTUN lA.
H. Dosseur y- QRSTOM - Janvier 1977.
May 1977



Annex 19
Appendix 5
TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Electricity Tariffs (From April 1975)
Low Voltage (220 V, 100 V)
(a)  Time-of-day tariffs:
-  tariffs for agricultural consumers with peak time cut (T millimes
17/kV% for day time and T millimes 7/kWh for nigEt tire):
- tariffs for water heating with peak time cut (T millimes 12/kWh).
(b)  Tariffs by blocks (first block 0- 10. kWh/kVA/month
second block over 10 kWh/kVA/month)
-  lighting and domestic consumers
(T millimes 45/kWh for the first block
T milliwes 35/kWh for the second block);
- motive power (T millimes 40/kWh for the first block-
T millimes 28/kWh for the second block).
Medium Voltage (30 kV, 15 kV, 10 kv)
(a)  Time-of-day tariffs with a fixed charge of TD 15/month and
a demand charge of TD 1.5/kW/month;
- (T xiillimes 11.3/kWh for day tirme;
T millimes 18.4/kWh for peak;and
T millimes 4.1/kWh for night time).
(b)  Tariffs by blocks with a fixed charge of TD 2.5/month and
a demand charge of TD O.1/kVA/month
-  (T niillimes 20.4/kWh for up to 50 kWh/kVA/month;
T millimes 15.3/kWh for over 50 kWh/kVA/month)
A special tariff comprising a relative low fixed charge (TD 2.5/month)
applies for medium voltage off-peak agricultural consumers.
Average charges in 1975 were about T millimes 15/kwh (USo3.5/kWh) for
.medium voltage and T millimes 31.6/kWh (USr7.4/ kWh) for low voltage.
High Voltage (220 kV, 150 kV, 90 kV)
The tariff for this new category of consumers will be announced in 1976
as a ministerial order.  It provides the same rates as the time of day tariffs
for medium voltage consumers. The tariff can be granted under certain
technical condition (e.g., the subscription of a minimum 8 MW corresponding
to about 10 MVA is required).
May 1977



TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PROJECT AUTHORITIES & OTHER GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS
PRIME
MINISTER
MINISTRY F                                                         MINISTR                                                                                 IONAL
AGRICULTURE                 0F PLANNING                    ICWORKS                                                                                        0F TUNISIA
DIRECTORATE          DIRECTORATE         DIRECTORATE          DIRIRECTORAT         DIRECTORATE          DIRECTORATE                                   RECTO RATE                               DIRECTORATE
OF LAND           OF WATER AND         0F STUDY AND        0F RESEARCHS           0F RURAL           0F AGRICULTURE                                 TUDY. PLANN-       0F ROADS ANO        0F RECLAMATION       OI CORATE
CONSOLIDATION       SOIL RESOURCES      HYDRAULIC WORKS       AND TRAINING           BUILDINGS            PRODUCTION                                   NING AND
STATISTICSBRDEAFAR                                          0FCNTUIN
1!!1lllllllllllllIIIIIII 11111111111111111111   -  1          -                            e||| m          _   ~lIlIIIn-mDhIlm
PROJECT AUTH   ITY                            ~~~~~PROJECT COORDINATING                                           PRJCTATORITY
OMWVVM+PP                                                                                                                     OIRECTORTE 0F MAIN
COMMITTEE                .YDALCNOKS
, immiimiiiiiiiiiiii "                                                                    j u#-uu ul
SNCF//\'               SONEDES                  STEG± /                         j
SUPER VISION 0F TE 
DAM AND ASSOCIATES
L  .11,  -C              CC.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...-
SEEDS h SELECTED      | AGRICULTURAL           STATE LAND MANA-       CEREALS                 CENTER OF                                                                                  I
FLA'NT MATERIALS     |MECHANIZATION            GEMENT OFFICE          OFFICE                IFRUITS ANDr                                                                             
l                                                   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                     ~~~~~VEGETAELES  MANGEM  |
EAETRWORK         ~~CONCRETE              RtOAD AND              YRMCA
4  ONTC t  <  < <  <   4 INRIAT                                   SEl EARTHWORK    CriEON CTON  RAILWAY SECT.  NICALSECTION        L    LAORATORY
NATIONAL OFFICE        NATIONAL               TUNISIAN COMPANY        NATIONAL
FOR TOPO. &            INSTIT. FOR             FOR SUGAR              INST. FOR
CARTOGRAPHY            AGRONOMY                                       AGR. RESEARCHS
OFFICE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOWER MEDJERDA VALLEY AND PUBLIC IRRIGATED AREAS.
NATIONAL COMPANY FOR TUNISIAN RAILWAYS.
NATIONAL COMPANY FOR EXPLOITATION AND DISTRIBUTION 0F POTABLE WATER.                                                                                                                                              WMRd BEnk-1ED14
TUNISIAN COMPANY FOR ELECTRICITY AND GAS






TUNISIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION  Or OM.V.V.M-P.P.I"
OC1REDSA E  SAI E DIRECOCRA TE0 S                                                                                                          R    N          T
| | DIRCTRRECTORATECTF ORAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF  LBIL X| O  WE         ADM't IS RT
|      L       OF STUDIES             E   O              LAND AFAIRS                    I                  N      L       CREDO AR D                                                                               M       DLLNAN-
Z | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L qOEFS                                             AFT R[I <LCF[<I ASION                                                                                                                                                   OF OFRATIAS       ANDMITERATIAT    l    DSTRATIO  N      TVOITJ
eOO                             AA' ED   IISOX5LFlNt   CONSALIOATION |        TINATT               EXTENSION               SAPPL                 MAMKET NGC                                                                                              SESRKSONT                       ACEEI [TING           FINAAL
} q ~~~~~~~CONTER CARS                         l          jDCMNAT ONS
/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -| -UPeRVISION OF |    TUNIT GNST
-ECON5rV C1 IDN                                                                                                                                                T  T                                   OATD
-~~~~ AI LT RT AIS  T TA{    TE L,DLC  BEABEJSS  ]T ECIES  PI E 15 { TCA
I                            {    X    3                                   +       1                                                       X      :                                   {            .                             0       3 llm -'
De U  F -IL ENVru   FLIsVALÉ-     O  AMel-    ET PrRIMETER   l ll,    s IHeG .Wur--                                                                                                                                                              -dan   t






IRRD 12232
-4 Sg,jf/lv{,<1       \          TUNISIA                                                                                                                   T         U N  I S I AUNEiP
T '*<>S/î4/Oirlh                              <ir~--Kj                            \;             ;  g    i ti; iSIDI SALEM  MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
A F R I C A                                                                                             Water Master Plan for Northern Tunisia
0       UL N I S I A  h                                                                                           iBRD prieal orson, le5 phase (VQ,600 ta<                   Iprsonnectbn çanal   ot phos-                              Mo,so roods
<S j                                          \                             ;;        -|                          Sttfeauard of citrujs plantatoos(6,000ha)                    Ope-  asaI                                    --     f   Rcilroads
Pvo I   i   bposed irr.gaHori. areai  iZnd phase            UIderground p.p.                                s--  v Rehabilitatios of e.isotin  rciWocad
4 -   -o  :   J ;J                A            EnsrrgEirrt igçmton qrevs Oin op-rotion or osgoing)         Proposad f0l-rre cvo, 2nd phase:                          Ne. rcilroad (relocation)
Clh.tt.1 Dj.,,d                                                                                            E4 ji  tyJ    inq9 - sdams oen d re5erv-virs                  Open casal                                    ..  . *High tensiols  ISe, 50 kv
~- X /                                                                           j -     ; _ Proposeidl dohss atrd revervoirs                           Undergrou nd piPe ;  *   dHigh tension lin.s, 90 kv
k                                                  \                                                  LL-I h  ;   ___  Rivoers                                           Prçposed pumpingsaHion   phase                            Mediumo tension lines. 22-30kv
'                                                                                 J                                                                                  : ; : | :> :; : Q:4  t  z ^ _ ; Pnvpcsed furtre pumping 5051005, 2nd pase  *  Trpransformer station, 225 kv
I                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Esistih9 potable aaier pipes  T ransforme, stoticns, 90 kv
Xi ) L I BYA  O        Iv 0;    2.0       30        A                                                                                                                                                          Q 4t SO 0 : : sIdiz5rie  Transformer statins, 22- 30 kv
\  l  t2 3  -; .-.-. Internationral boundarier
PY                                    MR~ M2e  g +                                  _n-fz                                               M   lDeml
37i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27 
.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
L,ES                                                                                                     e LasR   A        MeS3
i 4 g 5 _ _ T~~Ru  HURMATbrsv                                                      S>                                     /                                                                        Nees         ,E Ioacnetis caal LZ >l 2Ôk
, .à / ~MELLEGUï                                                                                                                                      "                                                                  fS/\ (/  1, Tesotor - 1,400 ha
:   <_      S ~~~~~    /  ^~~~< L~AKHMESS                                            |     '         \iJto   lh                                                                          Cap Ban - 5,400 ha
8 >  /    \           ~~~El Akva      ,                                     f/EEBiR                                                  wj                                          .Safeguard of citron. 4000 ha
R' 'J >1 0,.   /        \(;2"                                      " '                ID' ID La Mal'!






IBRD 12235
T U N I S I A                                                              Th- &°«rdatiemntM -t ttceprancp ne  -tt c   JUNE 1976
SIDI  SALEM  MULTIPURPOSE  PROJECT                                                             Wy,r9Bend/tsafirtee             - 
Testour and Medjez el Bab Subproject                                                                 1. T
I BRD project irrigation areas                                                                                   TULiS1A
Project area boundaries
Pressure pipes                                                                                            <
Buried pipe rietwork-
TESTOUR AREA                                         Buidpprtok\                                                     MEDJEZ EL BAB AREA ~                             Cho.ttël Di.rid 
1,400 ha                                        Pumping stations                                             \ .
~~,4OO ha ~~~~~~~~~~                Pressure reservoirs
Overflow dom                                                \\.. _
Existing high tension line, 90 kv
New high tension line, 90 kv                                                                                        i
New medium tension line, 30 kv                                                                                      I _
sj -             >                                                          New transformer stations              /_\___\______
zi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____Rocds
Railrood~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M o 
oX 2 -- 9       R 'iv =    Riers
Built-up areas
T> Tostoer                                                \  /_<
GP N..5
~~~odMedpvtd,~ ~ ~~~~~Mdiz l a
Testour  *o M e  4 iC c ~ 4~=>><)   =NZGich Se be
i12~~~~~~~~~ 1-                     2                                              oW    /                                     
S                     ,°O7                  3      4       ,                      x         
KILOMETERS S
Ol          i          2           3                                                                                          e
MILES
Tc B.u Ared.






IBRD 12233
To B.ni Kh.1led   37h20                   To Korb/                                                                                 To Nb..dv1/70o  bnAnis dio.   dàio  nnp ,o notIBR    1223
.          /                                    <                            /                                                    V          gr pl) endonconent or cceprunue by thc   Q             ii Né 198~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/W-IBoo oo ii  Pol
" `w--\  / %   O                 oi                            tés/\                             /<                         ~~~~~~~SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
ItÀ < /À < / \ 1>/ 89-642km ~~~~~Cap Bon Irrigation Subprojec
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~881036 k\                                                                                                                       I BalatRD project irrigation areas(5.400 ha.)103
`  I,r/\s/~~~~~/y J fb 2< / \\//i ut ,' '' ;"Sofegurrdofcitrusplontations(6,000ha)citus panhiions6,00  ha
;   /   < ';               X             /              /'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                   o                     <-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intcikes
/ fi X *- / // / NORTH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Buried pipe network
t: g/   9   /1<l   1  |                            /       85.718 km                                                _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing woter pipeline
(S)\  //   \   R / <   ~~~~~~~~P.pUming stthn                                 /IIIRrJilrouds
oi\   /iN   \                78.~~~~~           ~~~153 km                                                                                    -Rivers
t>/  »  iX.~ii4>  Built up cirrcis
Â#  /vÉt   75,941 km                                                                                       °         !    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
/  T_nis  »            ~~~~~~37- 20                                                    1  Tn                                                                                 MILES






IBRD 12234
37120'                                                                                                                                                                       JUNE 1976
r2j M  Wr                                                                                                           TUNI S lIA
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
2 ',\>/rkReservO,,                                /<O                                                                                                    Safeguard  of Citrus Plantations
Safeguard of citrus, area equipped (5,065ha)
s' Tt  /                  A«   Safeguard of citrus, arec proposed to be
Perimeter of Cap Bnirrigation ae
001G0   BAS/N                                                                                                                                         ................ Sector boundaries
- Medjerdo - Cap Bon Interconnection canal
.s   Pumping stations
ou Zelfa ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intoikes
Menzel 5Bou Zelfo                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75-941 km.Kilorneter posts
Meni Kholled       'O3SA                                                                                          Il  Projected pipes
MENZEL  BOU              BENI KHALLED                                                            -/- Existing pipes
\   ZELFA  AREA  1           AREA                                                                    Existing pumping stations
X ]{   a   ></   CL,   IBOU  ARKOUB                             I    Pressure reservoirs
N l  \  NlA/NOU         $,               /       AREA                                    -   Existing  potable water pipeline
To ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~od
Korsous                                                                                                                                                                -.  XIAR A  __*   ____ _  Rojaidsosd
------Roilroods
S  O L I M    N                                                                                                                                                             Rivers
\           j lt-up areos
b\  t    /  5                     o            u            e         - :ô t   >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~./084k
Soliman                                                                    100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~deie'ana                                     e
<TUNII
4   $a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Msnr;eservo,r                                                                                             |f
L78 153 km.                                                                   oe  ea 1ALGERIA ;
-O>                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                       I~~~~~~~~~ LIBYA
75.941 km                                                                     KILOMETERS                                                                                 t
01                                                              -~~~~~~~~~înô  notenn    ,pt-esan  by th, ~  j
ToTurri,        37'20-MILES                                                                                                               W-,Id Bo-k-d S fs,o






IBRD 12236
OO00                                   T U N I S I A                                   1035'                                                   JUNE 1976
SIDI SALEM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Medjerda -Cap Bon Interconnection Canal and Its Users
r auàwo.% Interconnect on canal-first phase
.......... .Ichkeul canal-second phase
.b   Pumping stations
( Existing dams ond reservoirs
Rivers
_37 00Z        1                 -       A reas   Ir|rLovigrVation    j Suelu  |    SEuippLy  Potable  Water  Morna9g Irrigation      Cap  Bon  +  Sofeguard   of  Citrus  Plantations  Po  usse  |
D&/Lsargeo/Water/ntakes (mk/sec)    5.000     10.000      3.775       3570       0.825    0615      0.935    2.100    0.650    0.600    0.810    0.860         1.450      2.35
Klom,eter Post   28.320        -        6950        7150      37300   49000   60890    75.941    78.153    85.718   88.136  | 89.642   93.084    97420
/X /1'A . , 
rso -nn~ h \  /     S1  `   /:  olirinon/ 
Os ,. 10  \UN S .1                         /                      ///                                                                              TUNIS
\   ) J   /   /                                                             rr^Z t                          r  , - - . \~~~~~~~~~~/ 
\   R   ~~~OI /A                     /        /         /                                                              t",<,x",_`'g.Q
I36e304  \ia            m m o m L t3 I                      /6                     30 -
Woter D/scharge5f(n73/s&cy    1600    11.      11.21    103        97        83       6.7   |  60    |58| 4.67|  3.81|  2.35|                                     ALGERIA           LIEYA
ze,gth (kmy;   28.32      7.41    3015      117        18        50        .21  |7.56 |   2 42 | 1 51  | 3.44      4.34 1`                                               IY
Cumu/at/ve length (kmy             35.7      65 88     775K94             04.52   106.73 |          Ï 11.9 1671    11822: 121.66   126.00|.                                   .
_ .                                        l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,,oc,                                                      1104



