                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   Report No: 78688-CN




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                 PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                               OF
    CHINA: CHINA-GEF-WORLD BANK URBAN TRANSPORT PARTNERSHIP
                         PROGRAM GRANT

                                            August 14, 2008



                                                TO THE

                                PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA


                                             June 21, 2013




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


EA        Executing Agency
GEF       Global Environmental Facility
ICT       Institute of Comprehensive Transport
MoF       Ministry of Finance
NDRC      National Development and Reform Commission
TA        Technical Assistance




   Regional Vice President:       Axel van Trotsenburg
         Country Director:        Klaus Rohland
          Sector Manager:         Mark R. Lundell
        Task Team Leader:         Binyam Reja



                              2
                          CHINA
 CHINA-GEF-WORLD BANK URBAN TRANSPORT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM

                               RESTRUCTING PAPER

A. SUMMARY


1.      The proposed changes to the China-GEF-World Bank Urban Transport
Partnership Program include (a) a 12-month extension of the grant closing date, (b)
addition of the Institute of Comprehensive Transport (ICT) as a Project Implementing
Unit (PIU) to the implementation arrangement for Part A (1) of the project, and (c)
adjusting the disbursement categories.

B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      Overall Project Implementation Progress. The project was approved by the
Board on June 24, 2008 and became effective on January 15, 2009. At the request of
MOF, the project was restructured on December 29, 2009, through which the NDRC was
introduced to act as the Executing Agency (EA) for the management and coordination of
the national and city-level activities. Since then, although project implementation
improved, there were still procurement delays on a number of technical assistance
contracts. As of June 13, 2013, the disbursement is 27 percent. More recently, however,
the project has been on track and most of the procurement activities have been completed
or are soon to be completed. As a result, the disbursement is expected to pick up in the
coming months as most of the consulting studies would be completed. The project is
therefore likely to achieve its Project Development Objective (PDO) and Global
Environmental Objective (GEO) once the planned TA services are fully carried out
within the proposed extended project implementation period.

3.       Project Achievements on Promotion of Sustainable Urban Transport in
China. The project is recognized as a flagship program in China for promoting a
paradigm shift in urban transport policies and investment prioritizations towards a
sustainable urban transport system in China. The implementation of the project,
especially the of Capacity Building activities, have allowed many leaders to be trained
with and exposed to international best practices in sustainable urban transport provision.
Six pilot cities (namely Changzhi, Zhengzhou, Nanchang, Jiaozuo, Weihai, and Urumqi),
have successfully proposed urban transport investment projects for World Bank
financing. The IBRD loans mobilized and to be mobilized to support sustainable urban
transport investments in these six cities amount to around US$800 million. Several non-
pilot cities have also benefitted from the project’s capacity building activities (such as
national workshops and international study tours), and as a result, decided to implement,
or are already implementing elements of sustainable urban transport such as bus rapid
transit and share-bike in their respective cities.

4.       Status of Component 1: Strategy Development and Capacity Building at the
National Level. Under this component, a series of international and domestic training
activities have been completed. Central and local government leaders in charge of urban

                                            3
transport participated in these trainings. A project website has been established and used
for knowledge dissemination. The procurement of the three TA contracts under this
component, however, was delayed initially, but is finally moving. Two will be awarded
by end-June 2013.

5.     Status of Component 2: Pilot Demonstration Projects in 14 Cities and 1
Province. Implementation progress varies among pilot cities. Six city-level TAs have
been completed, seven are ongoing, and nine are at the advanced stage of procurement.
Most of these nine are expected to be contracted by the end-June 2013.

6.      Status of Component 3: Project Management. The component is performing
well.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

7.       Extension of Closing Date. The current closing date for the grant is June 30,
2013. MOF requested a 23-month extension to May 31, 2015, in order to allow sufficient
time to fully utilize the grant to complete the remaining works and to support the capacity
development activities. The proposed extension of 23 months includes 12 months
required for all remaining activities to complete, except the planned international study
tours. The remaining 11 months are needed for all international study tours to be
completed within the available grant allocation. This need arises from the strict
government regulation that limit the number, destinations and expenditures of
international study tours in a given year, which also applies to grant-funded projects.
After reviewing the current implementation progress, the Bank team recommends a 12-
month extension as this would be adequate to complete all the planned TA activities that
are critical to meeting the PDO. This will be the first extension of the project.

8.      Addition of ICT as a PIU. Sub-component 1A of the project is for the
development of a National Urban Transport Strategy. Due to delays in procurement,
NDRC had used counterpart funds to develop an outline of a draft national urban public
transport strategy. However, there is a need to develop a more comprehensive national
urban transport strategy using available grant funding in order to fully achieve the
originally envisaged activities under this national-level component. Therefore, NDRC
proposes to include the ICT in the project as a PIU to deliver the Strategy. ICT is a
national research institute affiliated with NDRC. It carries out research activities and
policy development for NDRC and advises NDRC and the government on the areas of
comprehensive transport policy, strategy, and planning. Under the national component,
ICT is proposed to carry out activities under Part A (1). This arrangement will help in
expediting the implementation of this component, as ICT is familiar with policy making
in China and has previous experience in providing advisory services to NDRC and the
government in urban transport issues. The detailed roles and responsibilities for ICT
under the project will be defined through a separate Implementation Agreement between
the NDRC and ICT.

9.     Financial Management Capacity Assessment for ICT. The assessment has been
conducted by the Bank team, and concluded that the FM arrangement satisfies the World
Bank’s minimum requirements under OP/BP 10.02.

                                            4
10.   For extension of the closing date, the requirements specified in Paragraph 42 of
BP10:00 are met, and there are no overdue audit reports.

11.    Expenditure Category for ICT. Accordingly, a new expenditure category is
also added to the project (i.e. Category (1b): Non-consulting Services and Incremental
Operating Costs for Part A (1) of the project: for the ICT) (see Annex 1).




                                            5
                                              ANNEX 1:
                                        Reallocation of Proceeds

        CHINA-GEF-WORLD BANK URBAN TRANSPORT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM
                                   P090335
                            Grant No: TF092489-CN,

                                         Restructuring Paper

      1. Proceeds for China, CHINA-GEF-WORLD BANK URBAN TRANSPORT
         PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, Grant No TF092489-CN, P090335 will be reallocated
         as follow:

     Category of Expenditure                     Allocation           % of Financing
     Current          Revised              Current       Revised    Current    Revise

(1) Goods,           (1a) Goods,
Consultants’         Consultants’
Services, Study      Services, Study
tours, workshops     tours, workshops     7,750,000    7,050,000    100%       100%
and training under   and training
Part A of the        under Part A of
Project              the Project

                   (1b) Non-
                   consulting
                   Services and
                   Incremental                          600,000                100%
                   Operating Costs
                   for Part A (1) of
                   the project: for
                   the ICT
(2) Goods,         (2) Goods,
Consultants’       Consultants’
services, study    services, study
tours, workshops tours, workshops        13,000,000    13,000,000   100%       100%
and training under and training
Part B of the      under Part B of
project            the project
(3) Goods,         (3) Goods,
Consultants’       Consultants’
services, study    services, study
tours, workshops tours, workshops          250,000      350,000     100%       100%
and training under and training
Part C of the      under Part C of
project            the project
Total Amount         Total Amount        21,000,000    21,000,000
2. Additional Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provision of the Paragraph
   1 of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:

   Under Category (1b), unless evidence has been received by the World Bank that the
   Implementation Agreement between the NDRC and the ICT has been concluded.




                                          7
