                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00002509



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-92489)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                         PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR A

 CHINA-GEF-WORLD BANK URBAN TRANSPORT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM



                                     June 16, 2015




Transport and ICT Global Practice
East Asia and Pacific Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2015)

                              Currency Unit = RMB
                              US$ 1.00 = RMB 6.22

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – December 31


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ASI     Avoid, Shift, Improve               M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
BAU     Business As Usual                   MOF       Ministry of Finance
BRT     Bus Rapid Transit                   MOT       Ministry of Transportation
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism         MTR       Mid-Term Review
CNG     Compressed Natural Gas              NDRC      National Development and Reform
CO2     Carbon Dioxide                                Commission
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy        NMT       Non-Motorized Transport
CUTPP   China GEF World Bank Urban          NPMO      National Project Management
        Transport Partnership Program                 Office
DRC     Development and Reform              PAD       Project Appraisal Document
        Commission                          PDO       Project Development Objective
EA      Executing Agency                    PMO       Project Management Office
FY      Fiscal Year                         PO        Project Office
GEF     Global Environmental Facility       PSC       Project Steering Committee
GEO     Global Environment Objective        SC        State Council
GHG     Greenhouse Gas                      SIL       Specific Investment Loan
IBRD    International Bank for              STAP      Scientific and Technical Advisory
        Reconstruction and Development                Panel
ICR     Implementation Completion and       TA        Technical Assistance
        Results Report                      TDM       Travel Demand Management
ICT     Institute of Comprehensive          TOD       Transit Oriented Development
        Transportation                      ToR       Terms of Reference
IPF     Investment Project Financing        US$       United States Dollar
ISR     Implementation Status and Results   VKT       Vehicle Kilometers Traveled
MAC     Marginal Abatement Cost             WB        World Bank



                        Vice President:     Axel van Trotsenburg
                      Country Director:     Bert Hofman
                     Practice Manager:      Michel Kerf
                  Project Team Leader:      Binyam Reja
                     ICR Team Leader:       Yi Yang
                   PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
       CHINA-GEF-WORLD BANK URBAN TRANSPORT PARTNERSHIP
                            PROGRAM



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Analysis of GEO Indicators .......................................................................... 31
  Annex 4. Information on Non-Pilot Cities for Assessment of PDO Indicator ............. 39
  Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 42
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          China-GEF-World
                                                                          Bank Urban Transport
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Partnership Program
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P090335                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92489
ICR Date:               06/05/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     IPF                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 21.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 16.26M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 16.26M
Environmental Category: C                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance
National Development and Reform Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: n/a

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/18/2006     Effectiveness:                              01/15/2009
                                                                                 12/31/2009
Appraisal:            11/12/2007     Restructuring(s):                           06/25/2013
                                                                                 06/27/2014
Approval:             06/24/2008     Mid-term Review:        06/30/2011          06/30/2011
                                     Closing:                06/30/2013          12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower                        Ratings
                      Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:                         Satisfactory
                      Unsatisfactory



                                                i
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                 Moderately           Overall Borrower               Moderately
Performance:                 Satisfactory         Performance:                   Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Project at any time       Yes                                             None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    20                  20
Sub-national government administration                               32                  32
Urban Transport                                                      48                  48


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                        25                  25
Climate change                                                       50                  50
Urban planning and housing policy                                    25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:           Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:         Bert Hofman                          David R. Dollar
Practice
                          Michel Kerf                          Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:      Binyam Reja                          Shomik Mehndiratta
ICR Team Leader:          Yi Yang
ICR Primary Author:       Yi Yang
                          Philip Sayeg




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
Project development objective: Achieve a paradigm shift in China's urban transport
policies and investments toward the promotion of public and non-motorized transport,
modes that are less energy intensive and polluting than those fostered by current urban
land-use planning and transport systems in China.

Global Environment objective: Slow the forecast growth of urban transport greenhouse
gas emissions in China's cities.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
Not applicable.

(a) PDO/GEO Indicators

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval          Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)          Values        Target Years
                   Number of non-pilot cities that show demonstrable interest in implementing
                   urban transport investments and plans that promote public and non-motorized
Indicator 1 :
                   transport; and number of these cities that demonstrate measurable progress
                   toward doing so.
Value
(quantitative or   0/0                       25/10                               60/26
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                 12/31/2008                         12/31/2014
Comments
                   Target exceeded. 60 non-pilot cities demonstrated interest and 26 of them started
(incl. %
                   implementation. Refer to Annex 4 for detailed activities and list of cities.
achievement)
                   Reduction in transport CO2 emissions over 10 years in the cities participating in
Indicator 2 :
                   the demonstration projects of Component 2 compared to their BAU forecasts.
Value
(quantitative or 0                         1 megaton                           3.93 megatons
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2008                    12/31/2008                         12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %         Target exceeded. Refer to Annex 3 for CO2 emission reduction estimation.
achievement)
                 Increase in daily passenger trips made by public transport, walking, or cycling,
Indicator 3 : over 10 years in the cities participating in the demonstration projects of
                 Component 2 compared to their BAU forecasts.
Value
                                                                               0.3% (Changzhi)
(quantitative or 0                         5%
                                                                               3.2% (Weihai)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2008                    12/31/2008                         12/31/2014


                                                  iii
Comments
                   Target not achieved. Estimation carried out for only two pilot cities where data is
(incl. %
                   available. Refer to Annex 3 for detailed analysis.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                   approval                          Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                  documents)                          Target Years
                   A national sustainable urban transport framework and associated technical
Indicator 1 :
                   guidelines are issued.
                                                                                  National
Value                                         National
                                                                                  sustainable urban
(quantitative or   Non-existent               framework
                                                                                  transport technical
Qualitative)                                  adopted
                                                                                  guidelines prepared
Date achieved      12/31/2008                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2014
Comments           Target substantially achieved. A national public transport strategy was issued as
(incl. %           SC Directive #64. The technical guidelines funded by GEF were prepared but
achievement)       not issued by project close.
                   A national sustainable urban transport training curriculum is prepared, tested and
Indicator 2 :
                   delivered.
                                              At least 3 training
                                                                                  13 training courses
                                              courses offered
Value                                                                             offered with
                                              with participation
(quantitative or   Non-existent                                                   participation of at
                                              of at least 20
Qualitative)                                                                      least 20 different
                                              different cities
                                                                                  cities each
                                              each
Date achieved      12/31/2008                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Target exceeded, with over 1500 people trained.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      A national sustainable urban transport knowledge system is established.
Value
                                              Database finalized                 Database finalized
(quantitative or   Non-existent
                                              and publicized                     and publicized
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                 12/31/2008                         12/31/2014
Comments
                   Target achieved. An online database has been established. See:
(incl. %
                   www.cutppkb.org
achievement)
                   Number of cities that use the updated technical guidelines, manuals and
Indicator 4 :      standards in designing 12th 5 year plan, masterplan updates, other plans and
                   transport projects.
Value
(quantitative or 0                            30                                 10
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2008                      12/31/2008                         12/31/2014


                                                   iv
Comments           Target partially achieved. 10 pilot cities updated their local urban transport plans
(incl. %           using the GEF Grant. The GEF-funded guidelines were completed but were not
achievement)       issued by project close to guide local designs and plans.
                   Number of demonstration cities that implement transport development programs
Indicator 5 :      that include: 1) BRT; 2) integration of public and non-motorized transport
                   facilities.
Value
(quantitative or   3                           8                                  12
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                  12/31/2008                         12/31/2014
Comments
                   Target exceeded. 5 cities implemented BRTs and 7 cities implemented
(incl. %
                   integration of public and non-motorized transport.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Number of demonstration cities that introduce automobile demand management
Value
(quantitative or   0                           1                                  4
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                  12/31/2008                         12/31/2014
Comments
                   Target exceeded. 4 cities increased parking fee and/or introduced vehicle
(incl. %
                   purchase/usage restriction.
achievement)
                   Number of demonstration cities that commit to introducing transit-oriented land
Indicator 7 :
                   use development
Value
(quantitative or   0                           1                                  3
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008                  12/31/2008                         12/31/2014
Comments
                   Target exceeded. 3 cities started implementing TOD plans along the mass transit
(incl. %
                   systems.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                GEO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
                                                             Moderately
  1     04/30/2009        Moderately Satisfactory                                               2.00
                                                           Unsatisfactory
                                                             Moderately
  2     10/08/2009        Moderately Satisfactory                                               2.00
                                                           Unsatisfactory
  3     02/13/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        2.00
                                                             Moderately
  4     06/28/2011        Moderately Satisfactory                                               3.31
                                                           Unsatisfactory
  5     01/29/2012        Moderately Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                       3.31
  6     11/11/2012        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                 4.52
  7     06/23/2013        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                 5.60


                                                    v
  8    12/18/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         7.08
  9    06/21/2014   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory        10.24
 10    11/25/2014   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory        15.35


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP      in USD
                                         millions
 12/31/2009       N        S       S          2.00   EA changed to NDRC
 06/25/2013       N       MS     MS           5.60   Extension by 12 months
                                                     Extension by 6 months and
 06/27/2014       N       MS     MS          12.22
                                                     reallocation of loan proceeds




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vi
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of project design, China’s urban transport sector was a major and
fast-growing source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The fast growth in motorization
in urban areas was the driver of transport-related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.
Motorization was also causing severe urban road congestion and worsening urban air
quality. Municipal leaders were under pressure to deliver sustainable solutions to these
urban transport challenges. For the previous 20 years, most cities’ response to rapid
population, income and car ownership growth had been to invest massively in roads. But
it was recognized, at both national and city levels, that this was not a sustainable urban
transport and land use strategy.

2.      China’s leaders recognized that a nation-wide paradigm shift in urban transport
strategies to promote public and non-motorized transport was urgently required. Prior
steps had been taken to initiate this shift. For example, the State Council (SC) (Opinion
#46 in October 2005), the then Ministry of Construction, as well as the highest levels of
Chinese leadership, urged cities to give priority to public transport through official
documents and public announcements. Vigorously promoted, a national pro-urban public
transport development strategy was envisaged to slow the growth in transport-related CO2
emissions, improve urban air quality and provide better transport services for the vast
majority of urban dwellers who do not own a car. In so doing, it would also slow both
automobile ownership, and more importantly, automobile use.

3.      Concerted efforts at both the national (enabling environment) and local levels,
as well as mechanisms to bridge the gaps between these levels, were identified as
priorities to overcome structural and institutional barriers. While the overall policy
objectives were clear, the Chinese leadership recognized that additional work was needed
to identify which specific steps to take in order to help meet these objectives. The China–
Global Environmental Facility–World Bank Urban Transport Partnership Program (GEF
CUTPP) was therefore proposed. A new strategic national urban transport initiative to
develop financial and other incentive mechanisms - to enable the national government to
more effectively express its interests in sustainable urban transport solutions,
complemented by progressive city demonstrations that provide high profile alternatives to
the business-as-usual (BAU) scenario - was identified by the World Bank and GEF as
needed to achieve the paradigm shift.

4.     The project was designed to support the higher objectives of China, the World
Bank and the GEF. The project supported the Government’s efforts to promote public
transport priority as articulated in various policy documents and the 11th Five-Year Plan
(2006-2010). It was consistent with the World Bank’s China Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for 2006 – 10 and directly supported three of its five pillars (Pillar 2: Reducing
poverty, inequality, social exclusion; Pillar 3: Managing resource scarcity and
environmental challenges; and Pillar 5: Improving public and market institutions). The

                                            1
project was also consistent with the programmatic goals of GEF Operational Policy 11 (OP
11) on promoting environmentally sustainable transport and the GEF Strategic Priority in
Climate Change focal area (CC-7).

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)

5.     Project Development Objective (PDO): Achieve a paradigm shift in China's urban
transport policies and investments toward the promotion of public and non-motorized
transport, modes that are less energy intensive and polluting than those fostered by current
urban land-use planning and transport systems in China. Achievement of the PDO is
measured by PDO Indicator 1:
        At least 25 cities that did not participate in the demonstration program show
         demonstrable interest in implementing urban transport investments and plans that
         promote public transport and non-motorized transport, and at least 10 of these
         demonstrate measurable progress toward doing so.

6.     Global Environment Objective (GEO): Slow the forecast growth of urban transport
greenhouse gas emissions in China's cities. Achievement of the GEO is measured by GEO
Indicators 2 and 3:
        Forecast transport CO2 emissions over 10 years in the cities participating in the
         demonstration projects of Component 2 are at least 1 megaton lower than their BAU
         forecasts; and
        Forecast daily passenger trips made by public transport, walking, or cycling, in the
         cities participating in the demonstration projects of Component 2 are at least 5%
         larger than their BAU forecasts.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

7.       The PDO, GEO and the three Key Indicators were not changed1.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

8.     The primary target groups were the national and local policymakers and transport
professionals, as well as transport users of the 14 pilot cities and one province and other
non-pilot cities that the project aimed to influence. Policymakers and transport
professionals were expected to have increased awareness of good practice in urban
transport and strengthened capacity to develop sustainable transport solutions. The total
population of the 14 pilot cities was 34.3 million at appraisal and approximately 65 million
daily passenger trips were made by public transport, walking and cycling. Although no
data were provided in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), it would be expected that



1
  The three Key Indicators evaluated in the ICR are the same as those in the Legal Agreement, Annex 3 of
the PAD and all ISRs, although the main text of the PAD lists the Key Indicators differently.

                                                    2
these direct beneficiaries were poorer than car users and were drawn from the more
vulnerable groups in society.

1.5 Original Components

9.       Component 1: Strategy Development and Capacity Building at the National Level.
Component 1 targeted a set of activities to be carried out by the national government to
help facilitate an enabling national environment within which sustainable urban transport
initiatives can flourish. It consisted of the following tasks: (i) 1A: National Urban Transport
Policies and Strategies; (ii) 1B: Technical Training and Capacity Building Program; (iii)
1C: Stakeholder Participation, Dissemination and Awareness Raising Program; and (iv)
1D: Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).

10.     Component 2: Pilot Demonstration Projects in 14 Cities 2 and 1 Province 3 .
Component 2 targeted a set of activities for local governments to help foster demonstration
of catalytic interventions for other Chinese cities to replicate. It provided technical
assistance (TA) to the pilot cities and Liaoning Province on sustainable transport solutions,
consisting of development of bus rapid transit (BRT) and bus priority corridors,
improvement of public transport services and non-motorized transport (NMT) trips,
developing travel demand management (TDM) schemes, and designing transit-oriented
development (TOD) plans.

11.    Component 3: Project Management. This component supported the national
Project Office (PO) 4 to implement the national component, as well as to support and
supervise the pilot cities component.

1.6 Revised Components

12.     Project components remained unchanged during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.   Change of Executing Agency5 (EA). At the request of the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the project was restructured on December 29, 2009 to make the National
Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) the EA for the project. NDRC’s
Department of Basic Industries was assigned the key responsibility as it was in charge of



2
  The 14 pilot cities were: (i) Guangzhou; (ii) Dongguan; (iii) Ji’nan; (iv) Chongqing; (v) Luoyang; (vi)
Urumqi; (vii) Nanchang; (viiii) Jiaozuo; (ix) Weihai; (x) Changzhi; (xi) Linfen; (xii) Zhengzhou; (xiii)
Xianyang; and (iv) Xi’an.
3
  Pilot demonstration in Liaoning Province involved five cities under the Liaoning Medium Cities
Infrastructure Project (IBRD-48310): (i) Benxi; (ii) Fushun; (iii) Jinzhou; (iv) Liaoyang; and (v) Panjin.
4
  Referred to as the National Project Management Office (NPMO) in Bank’s documents after transferring
from the MOF to NDRC.
5
  The World Bank is the implementing agency of the GEF Grant. To distinguish the two, the counterpart to
implement the project is therefore referred to as the executing agency in all project documents.

                                                    3
coordinating and harmonizing energy and transportation development with national
economic and social development plans.

14.     Extension of Grant closing date and reallocation of loan proceeds. In June 2013,
due to delays in implementation, the Grant closing date was extended by twelve months to
June 30, 2014. In June 2014 the Grant closing date was extended by a further six months
to December 31, 2014 to allow the city-level Project Management Offices (PMOs) to
complete the then ongoing TA activities. In addition, due to lack of progress in several
national-level activities, the Grant balance of US$ 3.75 million under Part A of the Project
(Component 1) was respectively reallocated to: (i) Part C (Component 3) to cover project
management expenses incurred under the National Project Management Office (NPMO);
and to (ii) Part B (Component 2) to support the newly-proposed TAs in three well-
performing cities (refer to paragraph 27 in Section 2.2).

15.     These changes above were approved by the Country Director.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.      Soundness of background analysis. The project concept was formulated based on
a then recent World Bank working paper6 which identified the institutional and policy
challenges in China’s urban transport sector and proposed a clear set of near-term strategic
priorities to fill these gaps. The Bank had extensive experience with the development of
institutional mechanisms and policies for sustainable urban transport and a long working
relationship with the relevant authorities in China on urban transport issues, and was thus
ideally positioned to support the project. Lessons learned from this prior experience were
incorporated into the project design, including: (i) role of the national government is critical
but needs to be well defined; (ii) institutional inertia is a key risk in the urban transport
sector; and (iii) the Bank’s value-added was highest upstream in the project cycle, through
review and guidance in shaping the project concept early in the planning process.

17.      Assessment of project design. Progressively refined from the time of the PCN
Review (September 2006), through GEF endorsement (April 2008) and the Bank’s
subsequent appraisal, the project components adequately addressed the key barriers to
achievement of the PDO/GEO, through: (i) supporting initiatives at the national level to
provide policy and technical guidance to the cities; (ii) piloting innovative solutions and
coordinating bodies at the city level for multi-agency collaboration in urban transport; and
(iii) creating an overarching platform for enhanced policy dialogues between the Bank and
the national and local governments.

18.    At the time of project preparation, management of urban transport functions was
dispersed in multiple agencies at the national level. MOF, as the GEF focal point for China


6
 Building Institutions for Sustainable Urban Transport in China, EASTR Working Paper No. 4, Z. Liu and
G. Smith (2006).

                                                  4
and as the national body for budget allocation, was designated as the project EA and led
the national PO in preparing the project. A competitive selection of pilot cities 7 was
structured to enhance replicability and demonstration effects, but the complexity of
inclusion of 14 pilot cities and one pilot province (19 cities in all, geographically dispersed
over nine provinces throughout the country) was underestimated at the design stage8.

19.     Borrower commitment and participatory processes. At the national level, a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) 9 was established to increase the level of coordination and
transparency across national government agencies. Both the PO and the PSC demonstrated
strong commitment through taking an active role in project preparation. At the local level,
the competitive selection process ensured that GEF resources were allocated to cities with
the highest commitment and alignment of interest with GEF objectives. To enhance the
quality and relevance of project design, inputs were solicited from the national and local
governments, as well as from the China Association of Mayors.

20.     Assessment of project risks. The overall risk was assessed at appraisal as ‘Modest’.
Risks identified included: (i) ability to provide Bank implementation support in the 19
demonstration cities; and (ii) financial management/procurement capacity at the city level.
The Minutes of the Decision Meeting of November 2007 noted that the risk posed by the
decentralized nature of the project was to be countered by: (i) establishing a PSC and a
national PO, both being project covenants; and (ii) additional supervision budget to be
sought from the Bank and GEF, although this was not apparently realized10, as well as
using task teams managing other transport operations in pilot cities. In retrospect the risks
of implementing the project in 19 pilot cities with numerous TA activities, and the fiduciary
risk of all but three city-level PMOs being new to Bank operations were underestimated.

2.2 Implementation

21.    Change of EA through initial restructuring. During the initial implementation
period, it was found that the national PO under MOF lacked ownership of the urban
transport agenda and did not have adequate staff to manage and coordinate project
implementation. Project restructuring in December 2009 introduced NDRC as the EA and
moved the national PO to NDRC. The NPMO Executive Director maintained active


7
  The competitive selection process (described in Annex 19 of the PAD) employed the following selection
criteria: (i) quality of city organization and management; (ii) priority given to public transport infrastructure
and assets in the city budget; (iii) range and depth of relevant laws and regulations; (iv) quality of urban
and transport planning instruments; and (v) quality of relevant projects prepared previously and
compatibility with GEF objectives.
8
  Annex 19 of the PAD indicates that excluding the Liaoning Province cities, 14 of the 18 cities that
expressed interest were shortlisted and subsequently included in the project. This was much higher than the
initial plan to include three to five cities. Annex 17 of the PAD indicates that it was not possible to reduce
the number of cities without undermining the credibility of the selection process.
9
  Consisting of senior officials from the MOF, NDRC, Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Land and
Resources, Ministry of Public Security, Ministry of Environmental Protection and the China’s Association
of Mayors. The Ministry of Transport was later invited to participate in the PSC after it was formed in
2008.
10
   Supervision budgets provided to the project were about the norm for a transport sector project.

                                                       5
involvement throughout the project and maintained direct linkage with the PSC, who
provided technical and administrative leadership during implementation.

22.      Procurement delays leading to reduced commitment at the city level. Due to the
lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures, hiring of consultants was delayed
throughout project implementation. NPMO’s lack of experience, plus the large number of
procurement packages, led to delays in approving Terms of Reference (ToRs) prepared by
cities. In addition, many cities that had competent design institutes wished to engage them
for the TA packages; as these institutes were not eligible for award of contracts under the
Grant as per Bank Procurement Guidelines, consultant procurement was delayed until the
cities accepted the constraint. (Cities that did not have their own design institutes quickly
procured outside consultants, often international, and thus made faster progress.) These
procurement related issues affected the commitment of cities to the project, especially after
new mayors were appointed. These led to the extensions of the Grant closing date discussed
above.

23.      National urban transport strategic framework and guidelines 11 . The project
helped shape the new strategic framework for urban transport development in China
through knowledge transfer and high-level policy dialogues between the government and
the Bank. However, the national urban transport strategy planned to be financed by GEF
was delayed and was subsequently not fully carried out as NPMO wished to use the
affiliated Institute for Comprehensive Transportation (ICT) to prepare the strategy. Instead,
NDRC entrusted the ICT, who had built up its capacity and gained access to international
expertise on the new approach through the project, to prepare a national public transport
strategy using counterpart funds; the national public transport strategy was adopted and
issued by the State Council (SC) in December 2012 as Directive #64 on Prioritizing Public
Transport Development in Chinese Cities. Discussions started in early 2013 to add ICT as
an implementing unit of the project to prepare a more comprehensive strategy for urban
transport12. However, the Borrower’s request to do so through restructuring arrived in late
2013 and the restructuring did not materialize as there was too little time before Grant close
to complete quality work on the strategy. Two other TAs at the national level, i.e.,
legislative changes to support the national urban transport strategy, and national sustainable
urban transport planning guidelines, also suffered from delays in procurement and were
prepared but not issued by project close.

24.    Stretched supervision resources. The challenge of supporting 19 separate cities,
although recognized at appraisal, was underestimated. The Bank mobilized all available
resources, including task teams preparing or supervising other Bank transport operations


11
   TA studies at the national level comprised: (i) a national urban transport strategic framework (under Task
1A), including a national urban transport strategy and legislative changes to support the strategy; and (ii)
sustainable urban transport planning guidelines (under Task 1B). These activities were to be carried out
under three contract packages.
12
   In addition to the strategy for public transport development, the national urban transport strategy was
expected to comprehensively cover: the action plan to promote NMT and integration of land use and
transport planning; the institutional structures for urban transport; appropriate vehicle and fuel strategies for
urban areas; and associated financial and administrative mechanisms.

                                                       6
in the pilot cities, and visited on average one-third to half of the project cities during each
six-monthly implementation status reporting (ISR) period. NPMO participated in almost
all of the Bank’s supervision visits, and also visited cities on its own. The Bank and NPMO
also supervised implementation through desk review of documents, telephone and email
communications, and meetings with city representatives in Beijing by appointment and
during workshops.

25.    Mid-term review (MTR) and follow-up. By MTR in late 2011 Grant disbursement
had reached only 16%. One city had completed its consultancy contract, some cities had
on-going consultancies, and some others had commenced procurement. Because of the
slow implementation at city-level, implementation progress at MTR was downgraded to
‘Unsatisfactory’. Nevertheless, as some progress had been made in sustainable urban
transport planning and on investments in pilot and non-pilot cities, the project was
considered on-track to achieve the PDO/GEO.

26.    Following MTR, a remedial action plan was agreed to speed up implementation.
PMOs at the national and city levels expedited the preparation of ToRs and procurement
of TAs and the Bank provided timely support to review and issue “no objections” to
procurement packages. By early 2014, TAs in all but one of the 19 pilot cities were making
progress; four out of the five originally planned TAs at the national level were under
implementation. All TAs (except one in Liaoning) were scheduled to be completed by June
2014; however, some would require more time to be turned into quality and impactful
policy documents.

27.     Possible utilization of Grant savings. In June 2014 MOF requested an extension
of 18 months to utilize Grant savings in selected well-performing cities13. However, given
the age of the project, the Bank: (i) agreed to an initial six-month extension to allow
committed activities to be completed; and (ii) required some prior actions before granting
an additional twelve-month extension for new activities. These prior actions included: (i)
advanced procurement of the new TAs by the selected three cities; and (ii) MOF
establishing an EA to take over from NDRC to coordinate remaining project
implementation (as NDRC had completed its activities and had closed the NPMO). The
EA under MOF was not established, and the pilot cities made only moderate progress in
the procurement of TA packages. It was therefore agreed not to extend the Grant closing
date beyond December 31, 2014.

28.    Grant balance and changes in project scope. At Grant closing US$ 4.74 million
(22.6% of the original Grant) was undisbursed. As detailed in Annex 2, the following tasks
under the project were not fully implemented:
          National Urban Transport Strategy (Task 1A). A national public transport strategy,
           which covers the core of the urban transport strategy, was prepared by the EA using
           counterpart funding. However, the more comprehensive national urban transport
           strategy (refer to footnote 11) was not prepared.


13
     The selected cities were Urumqi, Jinan and Dongguan.

                                                     7
        Monitoring and Evaluation (Task 1D). This task was not fully carried out (refer to
         Section 2.3 for details). Methodologies for deriving the results indicators for the
         pilot activities and guidelines for standardized data gathering and reporting were
         not developed.
        TA in Liaoning Province on Urban Road Safety Planning. The TA package on
         Urban Road Safety Planning for 3 cities in Liaoning Province was cancelled, as
         road safety was considered to be ineligible for financing by GEF.
        TA topics in some pilot cities. These were adjusted, but remained within the
         framework of sustainable urban transport solutions as defined in the PAD.

29.     Capacity building and awareness raising. The Technical Training and Capacity
Building Program (Task 1B) and Dissemination and Awareness Raising Program (Task
1C) had a significant positive influence. About 1500 people were trained and awareness
among political leaders at both the national and local levels was raised. As a result, PSC
members prepared national guidelines for sustainable transport development in parallel and
many pilot and non-pilot cities implemented sustainable transport projects with their own
funds. These tasks also facilitated city-to-city peer learning, which reinforced replicability
and contributed to maintaining the enthusiasm of slow performing cities. The knowledge
partnership and exchange with the national agencies and local cities provided the Bank
with a platform to share international experience in sustainable urban transport
development 14 , and to partner China in the promotion of innovative urban transport
solutions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

30.     M&E Design. The PDO indicator (Indicator 1) on impacts of the outputs and pilots
on non-pilot cities directly measured the achievement of the PDO. Intermediate outcome
indicators on the completion of key policies, guidelines and capacity building at the
national level, as well as follow-on investments in the pilot cities measured achievement
towards the PDO. All intermediate outcome indicators and the PDO indicator were
appropriate, simple and verifiable.

31.      The two GEO indicators (Indicators 2 and 3) on reduction in CO2 emissions and
increase in daily passenger trips by walking, cycling and public transport measure the
achievement of the GEO, but are not readily available in the local M&E system. Both
indicators involve a comparison of ten year forecasts under a with-project scenario with
the BAU scenario, and required extensive data collection and modeling efforts in all 19
pilot cities. As GHG emission reduction estimation is a mandatory GEF requirement, the
Bank viewed this project as an opportunity to strengthen the evaluation methodology. A
baseline analysis of CO2 emission reduction was carried out at appraisal, applying the then
state-of-the-practice estimation, with significant assumptions. The Grant included an


14
  Several visits of Bank staff or consultants working in other countries and regions (East Asia and the
Pacific/South Asia/Latin America and the Caribbean) were arranged during project implementation to
provide support on topics such as institutional coordination for urban transport, BRT development, and
public transport reforms.

                                                     8
allocation of US$ 1.75 million to NPMO for: (i) developing the methodologies for indicator
derivation and guidelines for standardized data gathering; and (ii) reporting on indicators
based on data provided by the pilot cities.

32.     The end-of-project target for the second GEO indicator (increase in daily passenger
trips by walking, cycling and public transport over 10 years compared to BAU) was over-
ambitious. Most interventions in the pilot cities (except for TDM measures which have
city-wide impact) are targeted only on selected corridor(s), and increases in public transport
and NMT trips on these corridors as a result of pilot interventions would be relatively small
in percentage terms compared to those trips in the entire city.

33.     M&E Implementation. NPMO carried out frequent visits to the pilot cities and
updated the indicators (except the two GEO indicators) regularly in the semi-annual
progress reports. NPMO did not carry out the activities required to measure the GEO
indicators as designed at appraisal. No estimates of CO2 emission reductions or the
associated modal shares of public transport, walking and cycling were reported during
project implementation. The Government’s ICR has reported on CO2 emission reductions
in three pilot cities based on estimates provided by the cities; each city has used its own
methodology and the values are not verifiable. The Bank estimated CO2 emission
reductions at MTR using a methodology that is not the same as the ones used by the cities.
CO2 emission reductions to derive the GEO indicators shown in the ICR are based on
additional passenger data collected during the ICR stage and results from the TA studies
of the pilot cities (see Annex 3 for details).

34.     M&E Utilization. NPMO focused its efforts on addressing project implementation
delays and did not make an effort to measure emission reductions. This issue was not
raised as a concern during implementation by the Bank until almost the end of the project,
and the Bank failed to adjust the GEO indicator on the percentage increase in trips by public
transport and NMT.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.     Safeguards. The project was classified as environmental category ‘C’ as it only
supported consultancy services and capacity building. However, the ToRs for consultancy
outputs from the strategic planning framework, city-level plans and follow-on investment
studies required them to take into account environmental and social considerations.

36.   Financial Management. Financial management during implementation was rated
as ‘Moderately Satisfactory’ from ISR 5 to project close, due to the following reasons:
     Some internal control weaknesses were identified by the external auditor in the
       annual audit reports.
     Because of the change in the EA from MOF to NDRC, responsibility for
       consolidating financial statements prepared by city-level PMOs was not clear and
       Interim Financial Reports were delayed.
     Adequate counterpart funds were not allocated in a timely manner for project
       management at the national level.

                                              9
         Project disbursement lagged expenditures throughout the project because of
          MOF’s slow processing of withdrawal applications.

37.    Procurement. Procurement under the project complied with Bank Procurement
Guidelines. Three issues caused delays and required intervention of the Bank’s
procurement staff:
        Lack of familiarity with Bank procurement policies and procedures was a persistent
         bottleneck because of frequent substitution of procurement staff. Most city-level
         PMOs had only one or two consultancy contracts to manage under the project and
         were not motivated to become fully conversant with the Bank’s procurement
         policies and procedures.
        There was extensive over-commitment of certain firms or individuals, given the
         similarity in the assignments in different pilot cities. This led to further delays in
         getting suitable replacements.
        NPMO’s proposal to contract the ICT affiliated to NDRC, which was not
         acceptable under Bank Procurement Guidelines, led to Task 1A not being fully
         carried out.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

38.     National level. Several important policy, program and project-level initiatives are
continuing post-project. SC Directive #64 requires all national agencies and local
governments to give priority to the development of public transport, integrate land use and
public transport development and explore innovative financing mechanisms for public
transport. The Ministry of Transport (MOT) has set out the policy directions on sustainable
urban transport development in the 12th Five-Year Plan for Comprehensive Transport. The
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, NDRC and MOF have jointly
promulgated the Directive on Promoting the Development of Walking and Cycling System.
NDRC has issued the Directive on Promoting the Development of Integrated Public
Transport Hubs. New guidelines on TOD, TDM, etc., are also being prepared by relevant
line ministries.

39.    MOT, which assumed responsibility for oversight of urban public transport services
in 2008, has launched its Transit Metropolis Program15 and will continue innovations in
public transport. In addition, GEF approved MOT’s 2010 and 2011 applications (with
World Bank assistance) for two new projects16.

40.    Local level. In response to SC Directive #64, local governments are actively
incorporating public transport priority as a core principle in their urban transport plans.



15
   The Transit Metropolis Program, initiated by MOT in 2010, sets out selection criteria for pilot cities, has
issues policies and incentives to support public transport development in the selected pilot cities, and has
establishes performance indicators for post evaluation. Two rounds of selection have been completed and
37 cities have enrolled in this program.
16
   GEF City Cluster Eco-Transport Project and GEF Large-City Congestion and Carbon Reduction Project.

                                                     10
Further to the collaboration under CUTPP, six of the pilot cities17 (in addition to the three
that had on-going World Bank projects at time of CUTPP appraisal) are working with the
World Bank on new sustainable urban transport operations; five are under implementation
and one is under preparation. In addition, pilot cities are investing substantial funds of their
own to improve public transport and non-motorized transport and are implementing TDM
measures and TOD activities (refer to Table A3.3 in Annex 3).

41.     Systematization of knowledge dissemination through TransFORM. The initiative
of city-to-city peer learning and knowledge dissemination through a nationwide platform
has been taken on by TransFORM, an urban transport solution platform that was jointly
established by China and the World Bank. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed
between the Bank and MOT in early 2014 to continue to disseminate global knowledge on
sustainable urban transport in China, as well as to systematically capture, present and
disseminate solutions developed under various urban transport activities supported by the
Bank and its partners.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42.     Relevance of objectives - High. Project objectives remained highly relevant and
consistent with the government’s priorities set out in the 12th Five Year Plan (2011-2015)
that prioritizes resource saving and inclusive development by promoting low-carbon urban
transport, pollution management and strengthening mechanisms for managing climate
change. They are also aligned with the strategic directions set out in the China 2030
Report18. These priorities are supported by the Bank Group’s current China CPS (2013-
2016) and its two strategic themes: supporting greener growth and promoting more
inclusive development. They are also supported by GEF-5 strategy in the climate change
focal area and Objective 4: promoting energy efficient, low-carbon transport and urban
systems. Project objectives are also aligned with GEF-6 strategy in the same focal area and
Objectives 1 and 2 on promoting innovation, technology transfer and supportive policies
and strategies, and on demonstrating mitigation options with systemic impacts.

43.      Relevance of design and implementation - Modest. As indicated in Paragraph 17,
project design focused on activities essential to the achievement of the PDO/GEO by:
supporting initiatives at the national level to provide policy guidance to cities; and piloting
innovative solutions at the city level. However, the inclusion of demonstration projects in
19 cities made the design complex; it would have been preferable to limit the number of
cities closer to the original plan of three to five cities. In addition, the Results Framework,



17
   These cities and projects include: Xi’an Urban Transport Project (US$ 150 million); Changzhi
Sustainable Urban Transport Project (US$ 100 million); Jiaozuo Green Transport and Safety Improvement
Project (US$ 100 million); Nanchang Urban Rail Project (US$ 250 million); Zhengzhou Urban Rail Project
(US$ 250 million); and Urumqi Urban Transport Project II (US$ 140 million).
18
   World Bank and the Development Research Center of the State Council, 2013. “China 2030: Building a
Modern, Harmonious, and Creative Society”. Washington, D.C., USA.

                                                 11
especially for the measurement of the achievement of GEO indicators, was not fully
developed at appraisal. Further, the end-of-project target for the GEO indicator on
percentage increase in daily passenger trips by public transport, walking or cycling did not
take adequate account of the fact that project interventions in pilot cities would likely be
focused on a limited number of corridors.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective and Global Environmental Objective

      Achievement of the PDO - Substantial

44.     Achievement of the PDO (a paradigm shift in China’s urban transport policies and
investments toward the promotion of public and non-motorized transport) is measured by
a combination of a PDO indicator and a number of intermediate indicators which reflect
project achievements at national and city levels.

45.     National level. A national public transport strategy was formulated through the
project and issued as Directive #64 by the State Council, which substantially achieved the
purpose of the national urban transport strategy. The associated legislative changes and
technical guidelines funded by GEF were prepared towards the end of the project and hence
were not issued by project close. In parallel, under the influence of the capacity building
and policy dialogues within the project framework, a number of technical guidelines have
been issued on public transport and NMT. However, the failure to complete the
comprehensive national urban transport strategy (for the reasons discussed earlier) is a
shortcoming.

46.      Other significant project achievements include:

(a) Capacity building and training. A national sustainable urban transport training
curriculum has been prepared, tested and delivered. The Leaders in Urban Transport
Planning (LUTP) training program was localized for China and jointly delivered by
China’s Association of Mayors and the Bank. Thirteen technical training programs and
capacity building events were conducted, benefiting over 1,500 participants.

(b) National sustainable urban transport knowledge system. A web-based knowledge
base for sustainable urban transport has been established in both Chinese and English, and
a two-year operation budget beyond the project closing date has been allocated. See:
www.cutppkb.org

47.     City level. As shown in Annex 4, over 60 non-pilot cities (target 25) showed
“demonstrable interest” in the form of approaching NPMO and relevant transport institutes
established around the project for technical assistance and policy guidance in implementing
sustainable urban transport projects, among which 26 cities (target at least 10) have secured
funding and have started implementing these projects. This is mainly an outcome of the
demonstration effect of successful pilot projects at the local level, as well as the impact of
SC Directive #64 and the influence of the project’s capacity building and awareness raising
activities. For example, on BRT planning and implementation, the project shared the
lessons learned from Latin American countries and disseminated the successful experience
                                             12
of the pilot cities through trainings, workshops and study tours; since then, 38 Chinese
cities have approached the NPMO, its technical experts and the transport institutes that
helped to implement the projects in the pilot cities for technical support on BRT planning
and implementation, and 12 of them have started or completed constructing at least one
BRT in their cities.

48.      Other project achievements at the city level include:

(a) Implementation of public transport and NMT development programs by
demonstration cities. Five demonstration cities (Urumqi, Zhengzhou, Nanchang, Jinan and
Guangzhou) have implemented BRTs and seven demonstration cities (Changzhi, Jiaozuo,
Weihai, Xianyang, Luoyang, Xi’an and Liaoning) have implemented integration of public
and non-motorized transport facilities. These exceed the target of at least eight
demonstration cities implementing transport development programs.

(b) Updating local urban transport plans. The GEF-funded technical guidelines were
prepared and awaiting issuance. Ten pilot cities updated their local urban transport plans
under the GEF Grant. Other pilot and non-pilot cities are also updating their local plans
under the guidance of Directive #64 and are preparing transport projects based on the
technical guidelines issued by PSC members. The target of 30 cities using updated
technical guidelines, manuals and standards is likely to be achieved after project close.

(c) Automobile demand management. Three cities (Weihai, Urumqi and Guangzhou) have
increased parking fees and two cities (Guangzhou and Zhengzhou) have introduced car
purchase/usage restrictions. The target of at least one demonstration city introducing
automobile demand management has thus been exceeded.

(d) Commitment to introducing transit-oriented land use development. Three cities
(Dongguan, Nanchang and Urumqi) are implementing TOD plans along their mass transit
systems, exceeding the target of one city.

      Achievement of the GEO – Substantial

49.     Reduction of CO2 emissions. The GEO indicator target of forecast transport CO2
emissions over 10 years in cities participating in the demonstration projects being at least
1 megaton lower than their BAU forecasts – has been significantly exceeded, as shown in
the table below. The selected seven pilot interventions 19 include: (i) BRT corridors as
committed at appraisal and subsequently implemented by Urumqi, Jinan, Zhengzhou and
Nanchang; (ii) integrated public and NMT improvements under implementation in



19
   The ICR analysis selected interventions in seven pilot cities where: (i) follow-on investments have
already been completed or are under implementation; (ii) a strong causal linkage between the investments
and the GEF project is evidenced; and (iii) relevant data is available and verifiable. The objective is to
evaluate to what extend the GEO of the project has been achieved, through a simplified approach focusing
on a few follow-on investments, rather than acquire a full account of accurate CO2 emissions reduced under
the project.

                                                   13
Changzhi and Weihai that were identified through project TAs; and (iii) the new car quota
imposed by Guangzhou, which is one of the recommendations from the project TDM TA
report. Details of the analysis are presented in Annex 3.

   Table: CO2 Emission Reduction and Marginal Abatement Cost in 7 Pilot Cities

                        CO2 Emission              Investment        Marginal
           City          Reduction               (US$ million)    Abatement Cost
                         (megaton)                                  (US$/ton)
                                           BRT
       Urumqi                       0.51             340.4             665
       Zhengzhou                    0.63             120.0             191
       Jinan                        0.21             220.7           1,068
       Nanchang                     0.15              50.0             336
       Sub-total                    1.50             731.1             489
                 Integrated Public and Non-motorized Improvements
       Changzhi                     0.01             111.2            8461
       Weihai                       0.32             114.6             361
       Sub-total                    0.33             225.8             682
                                        TDM
       Guangzhou                    2.10              10.0               5
       Sub-total                    2.10              10.0               5
           Total             3.93              967               246

50.      Increased percentage of trips by public transport and NMT. The project is forecast
to contribute to an increase in passenger trips by public transport, walking and cycling and
decrease in passenger trips by private car and motorcycle. However, as explained in Section
2.3 and further analyzed in Section A3.4 of Annex 3, the target of at least a 5% increase in
the cities participating in the demonstration projects compared to their BAU forecasts was
unrealistic. While Weihai is forecast to achieve a 3.2% increase in public transport and
NMT trips, Changzhi is forecast to achieve an increase of only 0.3%.

51.      The project’s achievement of the GEO is considered Substantial based on the
critical target on reduction of CO2 emissions being exceeded by a considerable margin.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Modest

52.    Economic analysis was not carried out at appraisal as the project financed a series
of TA activities. For the same reason, economic analysis was also not carried out at the
ICR stage. The ICR assesses the project’s efficiency based on: cost effectiveness of the
GEF Grant for CO2 emission reduction; marginal abatement cost of CO2 emission
reduction; leveraging follow-on investments; and administrative efficiency.


                                            14
53.     Cost Effectiveness of the GEF Grant for Emission Reduction. The GEF Grant of
US$ 16.26 million has resulted in reducing CO2 emissions by 3.93 megatons, i.e., the GEF
contribution per ton of CO2 emission mitigated was US$ 4.14. This is a conservative
estimate, as the ICR only calculated the direct CO2 emission reduction from seven selected
pilot interventions where data is available and excludes emission reductions from the
replication effect of the project. Despite this conservative estimation, the project compares
well with similar GEF projects in the transport sector in China20.

54.     Marginal Abatement Cost (MAC). The seven pilot interventions used to quantify
CO2 emission reductions resulted in an estimated MAC of US$ 246 per ton (refer to the
table in Section 3.2 for a summary and Section A3.3.4 of Annex 3 for details). Overall, the
project’s MAC of CO2 reduction is good21; differences between individual interventions
are largely explained by the nature of the projects. MAC would likely have been further
improved for some of the individual projects if the national guidelines for sustainable urban
transport had been available earlier to guide the design.

55.     Leveraging follow-on investments. In addition to the CO2 reductions as presented
above, a direct PDO outcome was the follow-on investments in sustainable urban transport
that the GEF Grant leveraged. In addition to the seven interventions listed above, the
project generated six sustainable urban transport IBRD operations in China, with IBRD
loans totaling US$ 990 million. Table A3.3 of Annex 3 indicates follow-on investments
that the pilot cities have undertaken, including: eight cities constructing rapid mass transit
systems, such as metros, trams or BRTs; seven cities implementing integrated
improvements to public transport and NMT; six cities having implemented public bike
sharing programs; 11 cities having renewed their old bus fleet with clean energy buses
(such as CNG and electric-fuel hybrids); seven cities enrolled in MOT’s Public Transit
Metropolis Program with dedicated annual budgets to promote public transport; and three
cities implementing TOD concepts in mass transit projects.

56.    Administrative efficiency. As discussed earlier, the project required two extensions
to the Grant closing date, adding up to 18 months. Despite these, 22.6% of the original
Grant (US$ 4.74 million) was unspent at Grant closing, primarily because some activities
were carried out using counterpart funds while some other activities were not carried out.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.     In summary, relevance of objectives is rated high, while relevance of design and
implementation is rated modest. The PDO and GEO were substantially achieved. Overall
efficiency is rated modest. The combination of project relevance, achievement of
PDO/GEO and efficiency justify an overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.


20
   GEF contribution per ton CO2 directly reduced is US$ 24.5 for the GEF City Cluster Eco-Transport
Project and US$ 3.5 for the GEF Guangdong Green Freight Demonstration Project.
21
   Transjakarta, the world’s largest BRT system at 200km, was supported by GEF during 2006 and 2012,
and exhibits a MAC of over US$ 600 per ton.

                                                 15
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

58.   Gender, poverty and ethnic minorities were not identified as specific concerns in
the PAD as Grant focused on climate change. However, the project’s contribution to
improving access to public transport, walking and cycling is expected to be pro-poor and
pro-women and other vulnerable groups who are more likely to travel by these modes.

59.     The 2013 ‘China – Current Gender Action Plan’ 22 identified appropriate
participatory processes and disaggregation of survey results by gender and income to
inform project design as the primary way of mainstreaming gender (and poverty and ethnic
minority) elements into urban transport projects. This was a particular highlight in the
public participation TA in Liaoning.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

60.     The project contributed significantly to strengthening institutional capacity for
sustainable urban transport development at the national and local levels. Workshops, study
tours and awareness raising activities under Tasks 1B and 1C trained more than 1500
managerial and technical staff directly, many of whom were (or later become) decision
makers in the relevant agencies and institutes. The project also created a knowledge pool
of individual experts and consulting firms with global experience, for cities in China to
obtain further technical support on their urban transport initiatives.

61.    Multi-agency collaboration and public participation processes for urban transport
planning supported by the project TAs have been embraced by many cities and have been
incorporated in local planning processes. PSCs established in each pilot city have brought
together urban transport related agencies, including the municipal finance bureau,
development and reform commission, planning bureau, transport bureau/commission,
construction bureau, traffic police, bus company, etc., who continue to share data and
information after the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

62.    In 2011, Shenyang approached the NPMO for technical support on BRT planning
and implementation. After a careful review of the local urban transport system, NPMO
suggested that Shenyang consider developing a modern tram system. The project provided
resources to Shenyang on tram planning and design and supported a study tour to France.
These efforts contributed to the first modern tram in China being successfully introduced
in Shenyang in 2013. NPMO subsequently organized a workshop in Suzhou to share the
experience of Shenyang and international cities. Over 30 Chinese cities visited Shenyang
and more than 10 cities have implemented one or more tram routes. CUTPP is considered
as one of the initiators of modern trams in China.



22
     World Bank (2013), “China – Current Gender Action Plan” Update for Fiscal Years 2014-2016.

                                                   16
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

63.    There is little doubt that China will continue the development and implementation
of urban transport policies and investments toward a sustainable urban transport system of
reduced energy intensity and pollution levels. The promotion of public and non-motorized
transport, as well as the integration of land use and transport development, have been
widely endorsed by local governments as the effective approach to address urban transport
challenges.

64.     Impact of the new Budget Law. Under the new Budget Law that became effective
on January 1, 2015, local governments can no longer raise off-budget infrastructure
financing through their urban development investment companies (UDICs), which used to
be a primary source of financing for urban transport infrastructure. Financing construction
of new public transport infrastructure could thus become a particular concern for local
governments. The Bank is pursuing this topic with the national and local governments as
part of on-going discussions on Public-Private Partnership and revenue-based borrowing.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

65.      The Bank developed the project concept jointly with Government based on sound
background analysis (paragraph 16), ensured commitment of the Government and the pilot
cities (paragraph 19) and assessed risks realistically (paragraph 20). The relevance of the
PDO/GEO was high (paragraph 42). Project activities at the national and city levels
supported the achievement of the PDO/GEO, although the design of inclusion of 19 pilot
cities was complex (paragraph 43). M&E design included appropriate PDO and
intermediate outcome indicators (paragraph 30); however, while the GEO indicators were
mandatory, the target value for one of the indicators was ambitious and the methodology
for measuring emission reduction was to be determined through a project TA (paragraphs
31 and 32). The assessment of procurement capacity and measures to augment it proved to
be inadequate (paragraphs 22 and 23). The decision to select MOF as the EA reflected the
absence of a line ministry with overall responsibility for urban transport functions and had
to be changed to NDRC during implementation. On balance, Bank performance in ensuring
quality at entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.    The Bank engaged in an on-going dialogue and provided implementation support
to the EA, as well as national ministries/agencies and cities, in the achievement of the

                                            17
PDO/GEO through the implementation of project activities. It addressed implementation
problems relating to the EA and procurement delays at city level in a timely fashion through
appropriate restructuring (paragraphs 21 and 22). The MTR was carried out on schedule in
June 2011 and a remedial action plan was agreed with the EA to speed up implementation.

67.    Shortcomings in the Bank’s supervision included: inability to ensure that (i) the
important TA package for M&E was carried out, as well as (ii) comprehensive national
urban transport strategy was prepared; and not reaching agreement with Government to
cancel US$ 4.74 million of the Grant.

68.    Fiduciary aspects were supervised adequately through desk reviews and visits to
the NPMO. All TA procurement documents were prior-reviewed, and potential
procurement issues were duly identified and resolved. Financial management and
disbursement were closely monitored, and the task team regularly reminded the NPMO to
reconcile financial statements from the local PMOs and the MOF to speed up disbursement
processing.

69.     The need for higher than norm supervision resources was identified at the Decision
Meeting, along with the need to avail of the visits of other Bank transport task teams to the
project cities. While the latter was implemented as planned, supervision resources utilized
were, on average, about the norm (Annex 5). Some of the implementation problems
encountered could have been addressed more effectively, if more resources had been
provided.

70.     Most ISRs were prepared on a six-monthly basis and the ratings were candid and
appropriate, except for ISR3, in which the PDO/GEO and Implementation Progress ratings
were both upgraded to Satisfactory immediately after the restructuring, in spite of a lack of
progress in procurement or disbursement. Consequently the ratings were downgraded back
to Moderately Satisfactory and Moderately Unsatisfactory respectively in ISR4. Besides,
there was a 16 month lag between ISR3 (February 2010) and ISR4 (June 2011), which was
the period of transition from MOF to NDRC as EA for the project.

71.    The Bank’s engagement with central ministries/agencies (MOF, NDRC, MOT) as
well as project (and other) cities contributed to the mainstreaming of the policies and
investments in support of the PDO/GEO (paragraphs 38 to 41).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.    The Bank’s overall performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory,
considering the Moderately Satisfactory outcome that the project achieved.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory



                                             18
73.      The Government: (i) demonstrated sustained commitment to the PDO/GEO during
project preparation and implementation; (ii) initiated and completed the selection of pilot
cities in a timely manner; (iii) set up a PSC to ensure high-level inter-agency coordination
and guidance on urban transport; and (iv) facilitated the preparation and adoption of
policies and guidelines that support sustainable urban transport development.

74.    Areas where Government actions affected project implementation and achievement
of the PDO/GEO include: (i) inadequate allocation of counterpart funds for project
management; and (ii) delayed processing of restructuring requests, which resulted in the
Grant not being fully utilized.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.    Performance of the national implementing agency was Moderately Unsatisfactory
and performance of the local implementation agencies were Satisfactory. Considering the
Moderately Satisfactory outcome that the project achieved, the overall implementing
agencies performance was Moderately Satisfactory.

76.   Performance of the National Implementing Agencies. Performance of the national
implementing agency (NPMO) is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

77.      NPMO demonstrated strong commitment and overcame many challenges to revive
the momentum in pilot cities. The EA prepared the national public transport strategy with
counterpart funding, which was later issued by the SC as Directive #64 and had a
nationwide impact on promoting public transport and contributed significantly to the
PDO/GEO. NPMO organized training, study tours, and dissemination workshops, which
strengthened institutional capacity and promoted demonstration of project achievements.
NPMO also provided substantial support to pilot and non-pilot cities on the planning,
design and implementation of sustainable urban transport projects. It also initiated one of
the first modern tramways in China which is now spreading throughout the country.

78.     On the other hand, NPMO was unable to hire consultants for some of the national
TAs, which led to the comprehensive national urban transport strategy not being prepared,
and the TA for M&E of the two GEO indicators not being carried out. NPMO’s delay in
completing two other TAs (see paragraph 23) also resulted in the absence of national
guidelines for guiding pilot city projects during implementation. At project close, activities
not being carried out by NPMO represented 49.5% of the original national components
(totaling US$ 3.96 million).

79.   Performance of the Local Implementing Agencies. Performance of the local
implementing agencies (local PMOs) is rated as Satisfactory.

80.     Local PMOs were committed to the project and made persistent efforts to catch up
with implementation progress despite experiencing delays in procuring consultants. They
participated actively in capacity building and dissemination activities. Most pilot cities


                                             19
have adopted sustainable urban transport approaches to update their local urban transport
plans and have implemented investments using their own resources.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.    The Borrower’s overall performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory, given
the Moderately Satisfactory performance of both the government and the implementing
agencies.

6. Lessons Learned

82.    Bank’s added value is highest upstream in the project cycle. The platform created
by the project was successful in shaping early concepts, which subsequently leveraged
follow-on actions at the city level and created an avenue for demonstration and replication.
Adequate resources should be allocated for such upstream knowledge support and to
mobilize experts with practical experience to provide guidance to the client.

83.      Fewer demonstration cities should be included to reduce project complexity. The
inclusion of 19 pilot cities made the project too complex, despite all cities being motivated
initially. With fewer cities, issues faced by cities lagging behind could have been addressed
more quickly. If it is desired to involve more cities for demonstration purposes, separate
projects of 3 to 5 cities each could be packaged appropriately.

84.      Capacity for consultant procurement should be strengthened in TA projects.
Delays in appointing consultants in CUTPP, a TA project, significantly affected project
M&E and timely project completion. In the case of such TA projects, the Bank should
provide enhanced training on consultant procurement (in particular on the appointment of
affiliated consulting firms/design institutes) both prior to appraisal as well as during the
initial project implementation period. The Bank should also provide guidance on the
preparation of ToRs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

85.    Several comments were made in the Borrower’s ICR on directions for the future as
follows. The first two comments coincide with the Bank’s lessons learned from the project.
The third comment is also a general lesson for all Bank-financed projects.
              While the inclusion of 19 cities at design were intended to cover the east,
       central and western regions, in retrospective, focusing on fewer cities may be more
       effective and may maximize the demonstration role;
              Familiarizing with the Bank’s procedures for procurement and
       disbursement, and coordinating them with domestic procedures will be beneficiary;
       and
              Overcoming staff turnover in national and local PMOs through a more
       permanent arrangement will strengthen project management.

                                             20
(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component23 (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                                             Percentage
                                                                   Appraisal
                         Components                                                Actual        of
                                                                   Estimate
                                                                                             Appraisal
1. National Strategy Development and Capacity Building                   7.75         3.23       42%
    1A: National Urban Transport Policies and Strategies                   1.00         0.33        33 %
    1B: Technical Training and Capacity Building                           3.00         2.38        79 %
    1C: Stakeholder participation, Dissemination and
                                                                           2.00         0.34           17%
    Awareness Raising Program
    1D: Monitoring and Evaluation                                         1.75          0.18       10%
2. GEF-financed catalytic activities in pilot cities                   13.00         12.22      94 %
    Liaoning                                                              0.75          0.36       49%
    Xi’an                                                                 2.00          1.87       94%
    Urumqi                                                                1.00          1.01      101%
    Guangzhou                                                             0.75          0.74       99%
    Changzhi                                                              0.75          0.75      100%
    Dongguan                                                              0.75          0.73       97%
    Xianyang                                                              0.50          0.50      100%
    Zhengzhou                                                             0.80          0.78       97%
    Jiaozuo                                                               0.60          0.56       93%
    Luoyang                                                               0.60          0.62      104%
    Nanchang                                                              1.00          0.97       97%
    Linfen                                                                0.75          0.75      100%
    Chongqing                                                             1.00          0.91       91%
    Weihai                                                                0.75          0.70       93%
    Jinan                                                                 1.00          0.97       97%
3. Project management cost                                              0.25          0.81     324%
                                        Total Project Costs            21.00         16.26      77%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                                      0.35          0.35     100%
                                Total Financing Required               21.35         18.71   68.41%

(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of          Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing         (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                              millions)    millions)
 Borrower24                                                6.00         1.00         20%
 Global Environment Facility (GEF)                         21.00        16.26        77%




23
   Due to lack of information on in-kind contribution which is a major form of counterpart funding, the cost
table only presented component costs by GEF financing.
24
   Only in-cash counterpart funding is presented here in the financing table.

                                                    22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Strategy Development and Capacity Building at the National Level
Task 1A – National Urban Transport Strategy
Task 1A was designed to: (i) develop a comprehensive national stragety for urban transport for
promoting public transport, promoting better integration of land-use and transport planning,
and identification of appropriate financing mechanisms to bridge the gap between the national
and local governments; and (ii) identify and prepare key legislative changes that are necessary
to harmonize current institutions with the identified urban transport framework.
The planned activities were partially completed. A national strategy to promote the
development and use of public transport was developed using counterpart funding. The more
comprehensive national urban transport strategy was not carried out due to procurement delays.
Key outputs include the following:
    ‐   A National Public Transport Strategy was prepared, adopted, and issued nationwide by
        the SC as the National Guidance on Prioritizing Urban Transport Development in
        Chinese Cities (Directive #64, December 2012).
    ‐   Legislative Changes for Sustainable Urban Transport were proposed, with a review of
        the urban transport legislative and institutional framework at both the national and the
        local levels.
    ‐   Guided high-level conferences and workshops were carried out with the participation
        of relevant ministries (MOF, NDRC, Ministry of Public Security, Ministry of
        Environmental Protection, Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development,
        Ministry of Transport, etc.), city governments and stakeholders to solicit inputs on the
        national public transport strategy and the proposed legislative changes.
    ‐   High-level dialogue between the Bank and the relevant ministries and municipal
        governments was facilitated through the CUTPP platform.
Task 1B – Training and Capacity Building
Task 1B was designed to: (i) develop a set of manuals, guidelines and standards for Chinese
cities to foster planning for sustainable urban transport; (ii) develop and implement a
sustainable urban transport technical training program; and (iii) develop a knowledge base for
sustainable urban transport.
All planned activities were substantially carried out and the expected outputs were largely
achieved. Key outputs include the following:
    ‐   A set of National Guidelines of Sustainable Urban Transport Planning and
        Development was prepared, including planning guidelines and design manuals for: (i)
        urban transport planning; (ii) urban road design; (iii) urban public transport
        development; (iv) parking management; (v) traffic management; (vi) travel demand
        management; (vii) urban intelligent transport system; (viii) road safety; (ix) urban
        transport evaluation.
    ‐   Key recommendations on public transport priority and TOD incorporated into the 12th
        Five-Year Plan for Comprehensive Transport Development, in particular: (i) prioritize
        the development of public transport and increase its mode share; and (ii) apply
        synergized planning and construction for urban development and transport
        infrastructure development, and enhance the leading role of mass transit in functional
        layout and land use planning.


                                              23
   ‐   Leaders in Urban Transport Planning (LUTP) Program localized for China and three
       LUTP training courses were delivered jointly by China’s Association of Mayors and
       the World Bank from 2012 to 2014 to over 80 participants.
   ‐   10 technical training and capacity building workshops held with over 1500
       participants, including government officials, transit company staff, transport
       practitioners and scholars:
           o Workshop on sustainable urban transport policy and experience (October
                2010, Xi’an).
           o International conference on BRT planning and lessons learned (February 2011,
                Guangzhou).
           o Training on public transport and integrated transport hub (September 2011,
                Nanjing).
           o Shared transport forum (October 2011, Changzhi).
           o Training on urban comprehensive transport planning (April 2012, Nanchang);
           o Shared transport forum (September 2012, Jiaozuo).
           o Workshop on modern tramway development (May 2013, Suzhou).
           o Workshop on transit oriented development and land value capture (November
                2013, Beijing).
           o Sino-France symposium on sustainable urban transport system (November
                2013, Shanghai).
           o Transport forum for 2013 China-EU urbanization partnership forum
                (November 2013, Beijing).
   ‐   10 international training and study tours with 125 participants, including government
       decision makers, senior management and professional staff at both national and local
       levels:
           o Shared green transport training and study tour (September 2010, Taipei).
           o Public transport planning, management and operations experience study tour
                (December 2010, US and Canada).
           o Mayors’ study tour for BRT planning, operation and management (January
                2011, Brazil and Columbia);
           o Urban public transport hub planning study tour (August 2012, US).
           o Survey tour for university training course development for graduate programs
                (December 2011, US and Canada).
           o Urban transport planning theory and practice study tour (December 2012, US).
           o Urban public transport and hub planning and operation study tour (December
                2012, France).
           o Integrated urban transport planning study tour (January 2013, Germany).
           o Multi-modal transport hub planning study tour (March 2014, England).
   ‐   A web-based knowledge base (in both Chinese and English) developed and in
       operation for sustainable urban transport, with CUTPP project outputs, international
       and domestic case studies, policy documents, academic researches, training
       information, etc., and a two-year operation budget beyond project close date allocated
       (www. cutppkb.org).
   ‐   Three procurement and financial management training programs held with over 500
       participants:
           o GEF CUTPP financial and procurement training (October 2010, Changsha).
           o Procurement and financial management training (October 2011, Changzhi).
           o Financial management training (April 2012, Beijing).
In addition, influenced by the discussions and capacity building activities that took place
during project preparation and implementation, PSC members issued several national policy or

                                            24
technical guidance on promoting the development of public transport and non-motorized
transport. These documents include:
    ‐   Guidance on Enhancing the Development of Urban Walking and Cycling System,
        jointly issued by MOHURD, NDRC and MOF in September 2012.
    ‐   Guidance on Promoting the Development of Integrated Transport Hubs, issued by
        NDRC in March 2013.
Task 1C – Dissemination and Awareness-Raising Activities
Task 1C was designed to: (i) establish a web-based sustainable urban transport information
dissemination platform; and (ii) develop and implement public awareness campaigns for
sustainable urban transport.
All planned activities were substantially carried out and the expected outputs were largely
achieved. Key outputs include the following:
    ‐   A web-based platform was developed and the first phase was in operation from 2010
        to 2012. It reported the on-going activities at the national and local level, and
        facilitated knowledge and experience transfer from the pilot cities to the potential
        replication cities. The key information was merged into the web-based knowledge base
        under Task 1B and therefore the second phase was cancelled and the website was shut
        down (www.cutpp.org);
    ‐   Public awareness campaigns carried out in conjunction with the capacity building
        activities:
            o Cycling promotion campaigns in Jiaozuo, Changzhi and Beijing.
            o “Car free day” campaigns in Guangzhou, Xi’an, Jinan, Changzhi, etc.
    ‐   Project dissemination workshops during mid-term and at completion.
Task 1D – Monitoring and Evaluation
Task 1D was designed to (i) develop methodologies and standardized data gathering guidelines
for the results indicators; (ii) track and monitor pilot project output and resource use; and (iii)
evaluate project outcomes after completion.
The planned activities were partially completed. Methodologies and standardized data
gathering guidelines for GHG emission reduction monitoring were not developed, therefore at
project completion, only a few of the pilot cities managed to produce estimates of GHG
emission reduction from the project, based on their own methodologies.
Key outputs include the following:
    ‐   Semi-annual project progress reports, consolidating the progress at the national level,
        as well as in the 14 cities and 1 province.
    ‐   Project mid-term report.
    ‐   Project completion report (client).
    ‐   Individual consultants from international and domestic consulting firms, universities
        and agencies were hired to provide technical support to TOR preparation, TA output
        review, progress monitoring and results evaluation.
    ‐   A procurement agent was engaged to assist the national PMO with procurement
        activities at the national level.
Component 2: Pilot Demonstration Projects in 14 Cities and 1 Province
14 pilot cities and one pilot province were selected through an extensive competitive process.
The GEF component was designed to cover technical assistance (TA) related to the pilot
projects to create models of sustainable transport solutions for other Chinese cities to replicate.

                                                25
The topics were meant to cover: (i) development of BRT systems; (ii) development of strategic
plans to prioritize public transport and non-motorized transport; (iii) development of demand
management measures; and (iv) transit oriented development. Cities were meant to finance the
physical activities with their own funds, or in some cases, World Bank projects under
preparation or implementation then.
The pilot cities and province were unchanged, and comprise: Xi’an, Urumqi, Guangzhou,
Changzhi, Dongguan, Xianyang, Zhengzhou, Jiaozuo, Luoyang, Nanchang, Linfen,
Chongqing, Weihai, Jinan, and Liaoning Province. All planned TA activities in the 14 cities
and in one province have been completed, except for a TA activity in Liaoning on road safety,
which was considered ineligible for GEF financing.
Changzhi
Activities in Changzhi focused on improved urban transport planning and promotion of public
transport and non-motorized transport. Key outputs include the following:
    ‐   Proposed amendments to Changzhi’s master plan and urban transport development
        plan, based on extensive local data collection, international experience review, and
        public consultation;
    ‐   A comprehensive urban transport model for Changzhi;
    ‐   Changzhi Public Transport Development Plan and Public Transport Priority Plan,
        covering technical as well as policy measures;
    ‐   Changzhi Road Safety Action Plan, with a focus to promote the usage of public
        transport, walking and cycling on five high-risk urban passenger corridors;
    ‐   Trainings and study tours to strengthen Changzhi’s capacity in transport planning,
        design and management.
Based on the strategies proposed by and priority corridors identified through the TA, Changzhi
entered into the World Bank lending pipeline in 2011 and got a loan in the amount of US$100
million to support the improvement of public transport and non-motorized transport on four
urban corridors. The project management unit, which was established as a temporary unit to
prepare the GEF project, has become a permanent government unit for implementing urban
transport projects; and the project has facilitated the close collaboration among all relevant
municipal agencies including the finance bureau, the development and reform commission, the
construction bureau, the transport bureau, the land resources bureau, the environmental
protection bureau, etc. As a successful model, it also shared its knowledge on public transport
improvement as well as its experience in GEF project implementation and World Bank loan
project preparation to other Chinese cities.
Liaoning
Activities in Liaoning focused on incremental support to the then ongoing Liaoning Medium
Cities Infrastructure Project (Ln 4831-CN), including public participation mainstreaming and
comprehensive corridor improvement to support public transport. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐   Third public participation survey for Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Projec, to
        collect feedback from the public at project mid-term, which was used to evaluate
        project performance for the first half of implementation as well as to inform project
        implementation for the second half;
    ‐   Template and guidelines for mainstreaming public participation in urban transport
        project, so that concerns of the public, especially concerns on public transport and non-
        motorized transport from the vulnerable group, could be addressed;


                                               26
    ‐   Public transport plan for Panjin and Jinzhou, which laid out a mid-term development
        plan consisting of urban rail system and bus priority corridors for the cities.
Jiaozuo
Activities in Jiaozuo focused on sustainable urban transport planning in the context of green
tourism development. Key outputs include the following:
    ‐   Strategy and Planning for Jiaozuo green tourism oriented sustainable urban transport
        development;
    ‐   Revised urban comprehensive transport plan in the context of green transport for
        tourism development in Jiaozuo;
    ‐   Urban ITS system development plan for Jiaozuo’s city center and tourism area;
    ‐   Trainings and study tours to strengthen Jiaozuo’s capacity for urban transport
        management.
The TA laid out a sustainable urban transport roadmap for Jiaozuo during its transition period,
during which it will transform itself from a coal-mining industrial city to a green tourism city.
In 2014, Jiaozuo got a World Bank loan in the amount of US$100 million to support the
improvement of four public transport corridors in the city core, and the development of a green
path for pedestrians and cyclists linking the city center to one tourist destination in the
mountains.
Xi’an
Activities in Xi’an focused on public transport improvement, TOD and TDM. Key outputs
include the following:
    ‐   Strategic public transport planning for Xi’an, including infrastructure planning, route
        planning, bus fleet planning, bus priority, etc.;
    ‐   Design of two dedicated bus lanes in Xi’an, totaling 28 km;
    ‐   Bus operation improvement plan for Xi’an, covering operation and management,
        financing, and fare policy;
    ‐   Xi’an TOD study, which proposed planning principles and control parameters for TOD
        sites in different locations;
    ‐   Xi’an TDM study, which proposed an implementation plan for demand management
        measures with a focus on the downtown area within the Ming City Wall;
    ‐   Trainings and study tours on sustainable transport development.
The GEF project in Xi’an has leveraged significant elements of the Xi’an Sustainable Urban
Transport Project, which was approved by the Bank in 2008. The dedicated bus lanes designed
under the GEF project will be implemented through the Bank loan project. Several bus routes
have been optimized in accordance with the project outputs and on average 100 clean energy
vehicles (such as CNG and pure electric buses) have been added to the bus fleet annually.
Guangzhou
Activities in Guangzhou focused on travel demand management. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐   TDM study for Guangzhou city center, which established the TDM policy framework
        as well as the near-, mid-, and long-term TDM action plan for Guangzhou.
The study conducted many rounds of survey and public consultation to incorporate their view
into the report. In July 2012, Guangzhou introduced an annual car quota of 120,000, which
allows 10,000 new car registration licenses to be issued per month. In 2014, Guangzhou


                                               27
further indicated that banning of non-local cars in the downtown area may be adopted within
the next few years if traffic continue to worsen.
Jinan
Activities in Jinan focused on public transport improvement. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐    Jinan bus route optimization study based on the BRT network;
    ‐    A comprehensive urban transport model for Jinan, based on household travel survey of
         25,360 households;
    ‐    Schemes to promote public transport mode share in Jinan.
    ‐    Trainings and study tours to strengthen Jinan’s capacity in public transport planning
         and operation.
Owing to the concrete data collected through and strategies proposed by the TA studies, Jinan
was selected as one of the pilot cities of MOT’s Transit Metropolis Program in 2011 and
secured earmarked funding for public transport improvement. It has implemented several route
changes and public transport promotion schemes in accordance with the TA outputs. In 2014, it
promulgated the Jinan Public Transport Regulations, which is the first legislative document to
promote public transport development and to bring public transport investments into municipal
budget in Jinan.
Weihai
Activities in Weihai focused on public transport and non-motorized transport improvement.
Key outputs include the following:
    ‐    Weihai public transport plan, which proposed a public transport network based on the
         demand modelling;
    ‐    Feasibility study for Weihai green transit corridor project, which helped Weihai
         entered into the Bank’s lending pipeline in 2009 (but was later dropped due to
         domestic institutional arrangements issues);
    ‐    Study on Weihai advanced public transport system.
According to the outputs, Weihai has allocated 50 million RMB from the municipal budget
every year since 2012 to renew its bus fleet with clean energy vehicles (such as CNG and
hybrid vehicles); Weihai bus company has introduced over 30 new routes including rapid lines,
local lines and feeder lines. The public transport infrastructure proposed in the public transport
plan were later incorporated into the city’s detailed control plan, through which the land use
was secured.
Luoyang
Activities in Luoyang focused on BRT. Key outputs include the following:
    ‐    Luoyang BRT network planning and ITS design;
    ‐    A comprehensive urban transport model for Luoyang;
    ‐    Trainings and capacity building to strengthen Luoyang’s capacity in transport
         modelling.
Nanchang
Activities in Nanchang focused on public transport development. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐    Nanchang BRT planning, comprising two horizontal and three vertical routes as the
         complementary mass transit system to its planned urban rail network;

                                               28
    ‐   A comprehensive urban transport model for Nanchang;
    ‐   Trainings and capacity building to strengthen Nanchang’s capacity in sustainable
        urban transport development.
During project preparation, Nanchang planned to establish a BRT networks as its mass transit
backbone of the city; however the city decided to build its first urban rail line in 2009.
Facilitated by the GEF platform, Nanchang got a Bank loan of US$250 million in 2013 to
support the construction of its second urban rail line. It also introduced a public bicycle
program in its new development area with 80 rental sites and 7500 bicycles. It then continued
to plan a BRT network to complement the existing urban rail network and to nurture ridership
for future urban rail. After TA completion in 2014, Nanchang started to construct its first BRT
route in accordance with the BRT plan.
Chongqing
Activities in Chongqing focused on public transport improvement. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐   Service-oriented network planning for public transport system in Chongqing, which set
        out the near-term targets for public transport development as well as near- and long-
        term implementation plans;
    ‐   Trainings and capacity building to strengthen Chongqing’s capacity in public transport
        planning and operation.
The TA has accelerated public transport investment in Chongqing, including construction of
urban rail and dedicated bus lanes, renewal and upgrade of bus fleet, construction of bus depots
and development of advanced public transport system. By project completion, 100% of the bus
fleet are clean energy vehicles (CNG, hybrid, electric).
Urumqi
Activities in Urumqi focused on public transport improvement. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐   Urumqi public transport service integration plan, which integrates the infrastructure,
        operation, fare and ticketing, information, and institutional structure among urban rail,
        BRT and regular bus services;
    ‐   Trainings and capacity building to strengthen Urumqi’s capacity in sustainable urban
        transport.
Discussions during project preparation helped Urumqi to formulate the concept of a BRT
system. By project completion, Urumqi has opened 4 BRT lines totaling 46.9 km; it has also
entered into the Bank lending pipeline for a loan of $140 million to support the development of
2 new BRT lines and related public transport infrastructure.
Zhengzhou
Activities in Zhengzhou focused on public transport improvement. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐   Study on service-oriented transfer system for Zhengzhou’s urban public transport
        system, which proposed physical, information, service and institutional integration
        schemes for urban rail, BRT, regular buses and non-motorized transport;
    ‐   Multi-modal integration design for 6 stations along the urban rail line 3 (financed by
        the Bank);



                                               29
    ‐    Capacity building to strengthen Zhengzhou’s capacity in multi-modal interchange
         planning and implementation.
The project accelerated the construction of urban mass transit systems in Zhengzhou including
urban rail and BRT. With the technical support of the national PMO, Zhengzhou completed its
first BRT route totaling 35 km in 2009. By project completion, Zhengzhou has completed 2
BRT routes and 1 urban rail line; 1 BRT route and 1 urban rail line is under construction. It has
also got a Bank loan in the amount of US$250 million to support the construction of its third
urban rail. In addition, as was proposed by the TA and introduced during the study tour to
Tokyo, Zhengzhou is planning a few TOD sites along its urban rail line 3 to promote compact
development and public transport usage.
Xianyang
Activities in Xianyang focused on public transport improvement. Key outputs include the
following:
    ‐    Xianyang sustainable urban public transport planning.
Dongguan
Activities in Dongguan focused on public transport integration and TOD along one of its urban
rail lines. Key outputs include the following:
    ‐    Transport optimization plan along R2 line in Dongguan, which includes bus route
         reorganization, transfer facilities between urban rail and bus, bicycle, taxi and cars,
         etc., ;
    ‐    Land use and transport integration plan for key interchanges along R2 line in
         Dongguan, which proposed concept design, development typology and principles for
         four potential TOD stations;
    ‐    Trainings and study tours to strengthen Dongguan’s capacity in urban rail development
         and TOD implementation.
Urban rail line R2 in Dongguan started construction in 2011 and is expected to be completed in
2015. The TA carried out quantitative analysis of traffic performance before and after R2
opening, as well as with- or without- integration scenarios, which raised the awareness and
gained the support from both the public and government leaders. The Dongguan urban rail
company is following up actively on the TOD site plans proposed in the TA output.
Linfen
Activities in Linfen focused on sustainable urban transport development. Key outputs include
the following:
    ‐    Revision to Linfen comprehensive urban transport plan, based on extensive data
         collection and a sound urban transport model;
    ‐    Strategies for public transport priority development in Linfen;
    ‐    Trainings and study tours to strengthen Linfen’s capacity in urban transport planning.




                                               30
Annex 3. Analysis of GEO Indicators

A3.1 Objective and Approach

1.     Since the methodologies for indicator derivation and guidelines for data gathering
were not developed during project implementation, the following two GEO indicators were
not reported by the NPMO at project completion:
      Forecast transport CO2 emissions over 10 years in the cities participating in the
       demonstration projects of Component 2 are at least 1 megaton lower than their BAU
       forecasts;
      Forecast daily passenger trips made by public transport, walking or cycling, over
       10 years in the cities participating in the demonstration projects of Component 2
       are at least 5% larger than their BAU forecasts.

2.      The ICR team carried out an estimation of CO2 emissions reduction for a few
selective pilot cities where (i) follow-on investments have already been completed or are
under implementation; (ii) a strong causal linkage between the investments and the GEF
project is evidenced; and (iii) relevant data is available and verifiable. The objective is to
evaluate to what extend the GEO of the project has been achieved, through a simplified
approach focusing on a few follow-on investments, rather than acquire a full account of
accurate CO2 emissions reduced under the project.

3.     The methodologies for estimation of CO2 emissions reduction follow the Avoid-
Shift-Improve framework presented in the PAD. Some default assumptions used in the
PAD are applied in the calculation where actual data is not available. The 10-year period
for CO2 emissions reduction calculation is from 2015 (after project close) to 2024.

A3.2 Overview of Follow-On Investments at City Level

4.      Follow-on investments proposed by the pilot cities at appraisal consisted of four
primary types: (i) BRT/bus priority; (ii) integrated public transport/NMT improvement;
(iii) demand management; and (iv) TOD.

5.      At project completion, each pilot city reported a list of initiatives (as detailed in
Table A3.3) they consider as a direct outcome of the GEF intervention which are taking
place in the city, consisting of (i) mass transit systems such as BRTs and urban rail
(including metros and trams); (ii) integrated public transport/NMT improvements, and bike
sharing programs; (iii) increased parking fee and restriction on car purchase/usage; (iv)
TOD plans; and etc. These initiatives, broadly consistent with the four primary types at
appraisal, are considered to have the following linkages to the project by these cities:
      TA studies of specific interventions have directly led to the identification, design
       and implementation of the follow-on investments (e.g. integrated corridor
       improvement in Changzhi, Weihai and Jiaozuo, TOD stations in Dongguan, BRT
       in Nanchang, car licensing control in Guangzhou)



                                             31
      Follow-on investments proposed to be supported by the GEF TA study during
       preparation were designed and implemented with the cities’ own funds, but using
       the ToRs prepared during preparation and with substantial technical support from
       the Bank team and the Technical Expert Panel (e.g. BRTs in Jinan, Urumqi and
       Zhengzhou);
      City-to-city peer learning and awareness raising activities have led to the
       formulation of the project concept and subsequently implemented by the city (e.g.
       bike sharing programs in Changzhi, Jiaozuo, and Xi’an, tram in Luoyang, car
       restriction in Zhengzhou);
      TA studies on urban transport have accelerated the city’s investment in sustainable
       transport (e.g. clean energy bus in numerous cities, public transport priority corridor
       in Xianyang);
      TA studies and capacity building programs have contributed to improved
       integration of the mass transit systems that the city is operating (e.g. BRTs in
       Urumqi, urban rails in Zhengzhou, Chongqing, and Xi’an);
      Capacity building programs have contributed to pro-public transport and NMT
       planning at the city level (e.g. cycle and walk plan being prepared in numerous
       cities in accordance with HoHURD’s guideline).

A3.3 Estimation of CO2 Emission Reductions

6.     Based on the criteria mentioned in Section A3.1, seven projects are selected for the
estimation of CO2 emission reductions over 10 years, including: (i) BRTs in Urumqi,
Zhengzhou, Jinan and Nanchang; (ii) integrated transit/NMT improvement in Changzhi
and Weihai; and (iii) car licensing control in Guangzhou. The BAU scenario is that without
GEF, these interventions will not be initiated and eventually implemented by the cities.

A3.3.1 BRT Analysis

7.      17 BRT corridors were implemented in Urumqi, Zhengzhou and Jinan from 2008
to project close and one BRT corridor in Nanchang started construction soon after the TA
on BRT network plan for Nanchang was completed.

8.      Ridership on BRT. Actual daily ridership on BRTs collected by the BRT Company
are used in the calculation for Urumqi, Zhengzhou and Jinan. Forecast daily ridership
produced from the TA report on BRT plan is used in the calculation for Nanchang. Except
for one corridor in Urumqi with 168,000 trips per day, BRT ridership per corridor in four
cities varies from 20,000 to 97,500 trips per day, all being lower than the 120,000 trips per
day assumption in the PAD.

9.      Composition of BRT Ridership. At appraisal, mode switch from other motorized
modes such as motorcycles, taxis and private automobiles on BRT was assumed to be 20%.
The assumption is quite consistent with the results from a BRT user survey conducted in
Jinan (19%). Therefore 20% is used for cities that mode switch data is not collected.




                                             32
10.    Calculating vehicle kilometers of travel avoided. Average distance per trip on BRT
reported by the cities varies from 7 to 13 kilometers, reflecting the urban spatial
characteristics of the four cities. Average vehicle occupancy by mode uses the default
assumptions in the PAD.

11.     CO2 emissions avoided. Emission factors uses the default assumptions in the PAD
that taxis, conventional buses and BRT buses are all diesel based, and that motorcycles and
private cars use gasoline. It is noted that some of the newer BRT bus fleet in Urumqi and
Zhengzhou use CNG with lower emission factor, but to simply calculation, fuel switching
benefits were not accounted for.

12.    BRT analysis results. The analysis assumes an annual increase of 5% in CO2
emission reduction over the 10 years period. Based on this assumption, total CO2 emission
reduced by the BRT projects in the 4 pilot cities compared to the BAU scenario would be
about 1.50 megatons over 10 years.
                             Table: BRT Analysis Results
                                Urumqi          Nanchang Zhengzhou Jinan
 BRT routes                     4               1             8              5
 Length                 km      60.9            16.8          31.8           68.4
 Daily ridership        trip    373,500          84,000        257,745       146,000
 Motorcycle             v-km     5,304                                        -
 Conventional bus       v-km     70,716          16,621        89,352         26,708
 Private car            v-km     224,387         95,262        368,207        67,940
 Taxi                   v-km     103,663                                      58,453
 BRT                    v-km     (33,148)        (8,400)       (41,884)      (12,365)
 CO2 reduced per day kg          117,747         32,454        136,752        45,017
 CO2 reduced over       mt       0.541           0.149         0.628          0.207
 10 years

A3.3.2 Integrated Public Transport/NMT Improvement

13.     The public transport priority plans completed in Weihai and Changzhi identified
seven integrated corridors in two cities for public transport and NMT improvements, and
these corridors are being implemented by the city’s own funds and the Bank loan. Since no
trip data by mode on these corridors are yet available, the estimation uses the results from
the urban transport model that was produced as part of the TA. Both models have been
checked by the Bank task team who worked on the lending operations25 in these two cities
and the results are considered to be reliable.

14.    Baseline data. Baseline data in 2010 were collected through household trip surveys,
including mode split, average number of trips per day and average trip distance by mode,
etc.



25
  Weihai also entered into the Bank lending pipeline but the project was later dropped because of the
institutional arrangement issue. The proposed corridors are now being implemented by the city itself.

                                                    33
15.    BAU vs. GEF scenario. The BAU scenario assumes the cities would experience
rapid motorization in the next ten years with moderate increase in bus services. The GEF
scenario is that the identified corridors are improved in an integrated manner so that travel
speeds and reliability are increased, waiting time are reduced, and passenger experience is
improved for bus and NMT users. In Weihai, GEF scenario includes the increase in parking
fee, which led to a much higher citywide mode shift from cars to public transport than
Changzhi. The mode split results for Changzhi and Weihai in 2015 and 2020 under two
scenarios are presented in the table below.

                            Table: Mode Share in Changzhi
   Mode Share           2010              2015                      2020
                     Baseline    BAU         GEF          BAU           GEF
 Walk                38.8%       32.9%       32.7%        31.7%         31.7%
 Bicycle             27.3%       27.4%       26.9%        24.5%         24.2%
 Motorcycle          8.3%        8.1%        8.0%         7.2%          7.2%
 Private car         10.5%       16.8%       16.5%        20.2%         20.0%
 Taxi                1.3%        1.3%        1.3%         0.9%          0.9%
 Public Transport    13.9%       13.5%       14.7%        15.5%         16.0%
 Total Trips         1,462,000 1,875,000     1,875,000    2,108,000     2,108,000

                             Table: Mode Share in Weihai
 Mode Share          2010        2015                           2020
                     Baseline    BAU         GEF                BAU             GEF
 Walk                46.0%       31.9%       31.0%              27.6%           27.0%
 Bicycle             4.2%        8.4%        8.0%               8.0%            8.0%
 Motorcycle          3.9%        3.8%        3.5%               1.2%            1.0%
 Private car         18.4%       27.2%       25.0%              28.6%           27.0%
 Taxi                4.4%        5.1%        5.0%               4.8%            4.5%
 Public Transport    23.1%       23.6%       27.5%              29.8%           32.5%
 Total Trips          1,360,000 2,430,000     2,430,000          3,750,000       3,750,000

16.    Integrated PT/NMT improvement results. Travel distance by mode uses the results
from the household trip survey, and vehicle occupancy and emission factors use the default
assumptions in the PAD. CO2 emission reduction over 10 years (2015-2024) assumes it is
10 times the annual reduction of year 2020. Based on these assumptions, total CO2
emission reduced by the PT/NMT interventions in 2 pilot cities compared to the BAU
scenario would be about 0.33 megatons over 10 years.

                     Table: Integrated PT/NMT Analysis Results
                                        Changzhi          Weihai
     Integrated corridors               4                 3
     Length                      km     26                31
     CO2 reduced in 2015         ton    1,443             24,746

                                             34
     CO2 reduced in 2020           ton     1,314                   31,773
     CO2 reduced over 10 yrs       mt      0.013                   0.318

A3.3.3 Demand Management

17.    The TDM study in Guangzhou proposed a number of demand management
measures including increase of parking fee, car licensing control, restriction of car usage,
and congestion charging, etc. In July 2012, Guangzhou introduced the licensing control
measure, imposing a quota of 120,000 new cars per year. In addition, the TDM study
proposed a stricter quota of 60,000 new cars per year.

18.    Car ownership. Before the licensing control measure was introduced, private car
ownership reached 1,365,000 in Guangzhou by the end of 2011, a 20% increase over the
previous year. Without the quota, car ownership was expected to reach 3,600,000 by 2020.
With the per annum quota of 120,000, car ownership would be approximately 2,500,000
by 2020; with the per annum quota of 60,000, car ownership would be approximately
2,050,000 by 2020.

19.    Empirical data shows that CO2 emission from one car is between 3 to 5 tons per
annum. On the conservative side (assuming 3 tons CO2/year/car), car quota of 120,000 per
annum would reduce over 27 megatons of CO2 emissions from new cars during 2013 to
2022. Of course, these trips if taken by other motorized modes or on other cars would also
produce CO2 emissions, so the net CO2 emissions reduction is much less.

20.    BAU Scenario vs. GEF/GEF+ Scenarios. The consultant for the TDM study tested
the BAU scenario (without car quota), the GEF scenario (with car quota of 120,000 per
annum), and the GEF+ scenario (with car quota of 60,000 per annum) in the transport
model. Mode split of motorized trips under different scenarios are listed in the table below.

 Mode Share            2010                                2020
                   Baseline         BAU               GEF                GEF++
 Private car       40.00%           40%               37%                30%
 Bus               31.70%           25.00%            26%                30%
 Metro             13.80%           20%               21%                23%
 Taxi              11.20%           8%                9%                 10%
 other             3.30%            7%                7%                 7%
 No. of Trips      19,470,000       27,750,000        27,750,000         27,750,000

21.     Demand management results. Average travel distance in Guangzhou is expected
to increase to 22 kilometer in 2020 from 18 kilometer of today. CO2 emission reduction
over 10 years (2015-2024) assumes it is 5 times the annual reduction of in year 2020. Based
on this assumptions, total CO2 emission reduced by the current quota of 120,000 new cars
per annum compared to the BAU scenario would be about 2.10 megatons over 10 years.

                                                                  2020

                                             35
                                                      BAU                GEF                GEF++
 CO2 emission per day                         ton     33,736             53,848             52,697
 CO2 emission reduction in 2020               ton                        420,153            2,040,467
 Emission reduction over 10 yrs               mt                         2.10               10.20

A3.3.4 COs Emission Reduction and Marginal Abatement Cost

22.     The CO2 emission reduction by project over 10 years compared to the BAU
scenario and its associated capital investment are summarized in Table A3.1. An
approximate estimate of the marginal abatement cost (MAC) or cost-effectiveness (US$)
of the capital investment26 against per ton of CO2 avoided over 10 years was made.

23.     The MAC for BRT varied from US$ 191 to 1,068 per ton with the higher cost-
effectiveness where patronage demand was well established and capital cost per kilometer
was low. Integrated public transport and NMT corridor improvements have induced low
switch from private modes and therefore show lower cost-effectiveness. As for the MAC
for Integrated PT/NMT improvements, Weihai also introduced higher parking fee which is
taken into account during the CO2 emission estimation, resulting in a much lower MAC
compared to Changzhi. As the Guangzhou new vehicle quota had a low implementation
cost with high estimated CO2 reductions, the MAC is US$ 5 per ton thus demonstrating
very high cost-effectiveness.

 Table A3.1: Estimated CO2 emissions over 10 years and Marginal Abatement Cost

                                                              CO2 Emission              Marginal
                                        Investment
        City            Details                                 Reduction             Abatement Cost
                                       (USD million)
                                                               (million ton)            (USD/ton)
                                             BRT
     Urumqi          4 corridors             340.4          0.51                                      665
     Zhengzhou       8 corridors             120.0          0.63                                      191
     Jinan           5 corridors             220.7          0.21                                    1,068
     Nanchang        1 corridor               50.0          0.15                                      336
     Sub-total                               731.1          1.50                                      489
                              Integrated PT/NMT Improvement
     Changzhi        4 corridors             111.2          0.01                                     8461
                                 *
     Weihai          3 corridors             114.6          0.32                                      361
     Sub-total                               225.8          0.55                                      682
                                   Travel Demand Management
     Guangzhou                                10.0          2.10                                         5


26
  While the operating and maintenance costs of the follow-on investments are not taken into account,
revenues from users offset these to some extent. Further, 10 years is a short period to assume for the life of
an infrastructure investment, and in addition, the network effects would indicate that CO2 reductions may be
underestimated.

                                                     36
                                                    CO2 Emission       Marginal
                                  Investment
      City          Details                           Reduction      Abatement Cost
                                 (USD million)
                                                     (million ton)     (USD/ton)
  Sub-total                                 10.0                2.10              5
     Total                            967                3.93             246

A3.4 Estimation of Increase in Passenger Trips by Public Transport, Walking and Cycling

24.     The mode split and trip forecast data in Changzhi and Weihai can also be used to
assess the GEO indicator on increase in passenger trips by public transport, walking and
cycling.

25.     In Changzhi, public transport, walking and cycling represent about 80% of the total
passenger trips in 2010, and is expected to drop to 71.7% in 2020 under the BAU scenario.
With the implementation of the four integrated corridors, share of these three modes will
be maintained at 71.9%, which represent 4,200 more daily trips on public transport,
walking and cycling, or a 1% decrease in total car trips in Changzhi. But in terms of
percentage of passenger trips increased compared to the BAU scenario (GEO Indicator 3),
the actual value achieved is less than 0.3%.

26.    In Weihai, baseline mode share of public transport, walking and cycling in 2010 is
lower than Changzhi (73.3%), and is expected to drop to 65.4% in 2020 under the BAU
scenario. With the implementation of the three integrated corridors, share of these three
modes will be maintained at 67.5%, which represent over 78,000 more daily trips on public
transport, walking and cycling, or a 7.3% decrease in trips by cars, motorcycles and taxis
in Weihai. In terms of the GEO Indicator 3, the actual value achieved in Weihai is 3.2%,
also lower than the target value of 5%.

27.     Analysis in Changzhi and Weihai shows that the target of 5% was not achieved.
This is mainly due to the fact that improvements to public and non-motorized transport
were focused on a few selected corridors only, so the trips by public transport, walking and
cycling increased on these corridors are relatively small compared to the total number of
trips by these three modes in the entire city. The results in Weihai being much higher than
Changzhi further supports the above conclusion, because results from Weihai also took
into consideration the effect of parking fee increase, which is city-wide.




                                            37
                                                     Table A3.3: Follow-on Investments in Pilot Cities




                                                                                                                                                                Guangzhou
                                                                                                                                    Zhengzhou




                                                                                                                                                                            Chongqing
                                                                                           Dongguan




                                                                                                                         Nanchang
                                                                                Xianyang
                                         Changzhi




                                                                                                                                                                                        Liaoning
                                                                                                      Luoyang




                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL
                                                                                                                Urumqi
                                                                      Jiaozuo
                                                    Weihai

                                                             Linfen




                                                                                                                                                Jinan

                                                                                                                                                        Xi'an
                  BRT/bus priority                  Y                                      Y          Y         Y        Y          Y           Y       Y                   Y                       9
Appraisal




                      PT+NMT             Y          Y        Y        Y         Y                                        Y                              Y                               Y           8
                         TDM                                                                                                                            Y       Y                                   2
                         TOD                                                                                    Y        Y                      Y                                                   3
             PT/NMT prioritization in                                                                                                                                                              10
             urban transport plan        Y          Y        Y                                        Y         Y        Y          Y           Y               Y           Y
             urban rail                                                                    Y                    Y        Y          Y           Y       Y       Y           Y                       8
             BRT                                                                                                Y        Y          Y           Y               Y                                   5
             PT+NMT improvement          Y          Y                 Y         Y                     Y                                                 Y                               Y           7
Completion




             bike sharing                Y                   Y                                        Y                  Y                              Y       Y                                   6
             cycle + walk plan                               Y                                                  Y                   Y           Y               Y                                   5
             clean energy bus            Y          Y        Y                                                  Y        Y          Y           Y       Y       Y           Y           Y          11
             increasing parking fee                 Y                                                           Y                                               Y                                   3
             car restriction                                                                                                        Y                           Y                                   2
             TOD                                                                           Y                    Y        Y                                                                          3
             Public Transit Metropolis                                                                          Y        Y          Y           Y       Y       Y           Y                       7
             World Bank loan             Y                            Y                                         Y        Y          Y                   Y                                           6




                                                                                           38
Annex 4. Information on Non-Pilot Cities for Assessment of PDO Indicator

                    Activity                                                 List of cities                         # cities          Note
                                                   Hangzhou, Changzhou, Suzhou, Xiamen, Dalian, Hefei, Kunming,
                                                   Yancheng, Zhangzhou, Wuhan, Changsha, Shenzhen, Shenyang,
 Approach the NPMO, its technical experts          Lanzhou, Yichang, Nanning, Huaian, Changde, Chengdu, Jinhua,
 and transport institutes around the project for   Jining, Nanjing, Guiyang, Ningbo, Zhuhai, Taizhou, Yiwu,
 technical assistance on BRT planning and          Shijiangzhuang, Haikou, Kunshan, Qiqihar, Harbin, Anqing,
 implementation                                    Kaifeng, Pingdingshan, Anyang, Xinxiang, Zhumadian                 38
                                                   Hangzhou, Changzhou, Xiamen, Dalian, Hefei, Kunming,                        in operation or
                                                   Yancheng, Lanzhou, Huaian, Changde, Jinhua, Nanjing                12       under construction
                                                   Baoding, Dengfeng, Tangshan, Jining, Dezhou, Zhanjiang,
 Seek technical assistance and policy              Nanning, Liuzhou, Anyang, Donge, Shenyang, Changzhou,
 guidance from NPMO for applying for               Kunming, Wuhan, Anlu, Mudanjiang, Harbin, Xiangyang,
 sustainable urban transport projects from         Huainan, Tianjin, Guiyang                                          21
 international financing institutions              Kunming, Wuhan, Anlu, Mudanjiang, Harbin, Xiangyang,                        WB loan approved
                                                   Huainan, Tianjin, Guiyang                                           9       or pipeline entry
                                                   Shenyang, Beijing, Suzhou, Nanjing, Zhuhai, Chengdu, Shenzhen,
                      *
 Develop tram plans under the influence of         Foshan, Wuhan, Huaian, Qingdao, Ningbo, Xuzhou, Changchun,
 the project and the successful case in            Shanghai, Taizhou, Harbin, Tianjin, Dalian, Quanzhou, Kunshan,
 Shenyang                                          Hefei, Taiyuan, Datong, Yantai                                     25
                                                   Shenyang, Shanghai, Suzhou, Changchun, Nanjing, Zhuhai,                     in operation or
                                                   Shenzhen                                                            7       under construction
 Approach the NPMO and transport institutes        Taiyuan, Jincheng, Guiyang, Xiangyang, Anlu, Shenyang               6
 around the project for technical assistance on
 bike sharing                                      Taiyuan, Xiangyang, Shenyang                                        3       in operation




                                                                        39
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
         Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Shomik Raj Mehndiratta      Lead Urban Transport Specialis     LCSTR
Syed Ahmed                           Lead Counsel              LEGES
Junxue Chu                          Finance Officer            WFALN
Haiyan Wang                         Finance Officer            WFALN
Wenling Chen                 Junior Professional Associate     EASCS
Zhi Liu                      Lead Infrastructure Specialist    EASTS
Yi Dong                  Sr Financial Management Specialaist   EASFM
Dawei Yang                            Consultant               EASTS
Jun Zeng                           Social Specialist           EASCS
Peishen Wang                   Environmental Specialist        EASCS
Samuel L. Zimmerman                   Consultant               EASCS
Ke Fang                        Lead Transport Specialist       GTIDR
Roger Gorham                          Consultant               EASCS
Yan Zong                         Transport Specialist          EASCS
Mariana Torres               Junior Professional Associate     EASCS
Supervision/ICR
Shomik Raj Mehndiratta     Lead Urban Transport Specialis      LCSTR
Zhi Liu                     Lead Infrastructure Specialist     EASTS
Binyam Reja                   Lead Transport Specialist        GTIDR
Ke Fang                       Lead Transport Specialist        GTIDR
Om Prakash Agarwal          Sr Urban Transport Specialist      TWITR
Arturo Ardila-Gomez         Sr Urban Transport Specialist      LCSTR
Mauricio Cuellar                Sr Transport Specialist        LCSTR
Reindert Westra             Sr Urban Transport Specialist      EASIN
Luquan Tian                     Sr Transport Specialist        SASDT
Wenjing Pu                       Transport Specialist          EASIN
Weimin Zhou                      Transport Specialist          GTIDR
Yi Yang                           Transport Analyst            GTIDR
Holly Krambeck                  Sr Transport Specialist        GTIDR
Gerald Ollivier              Sr Infrastructure Specialist      GTIDR
Rajagopal S. Iyer                     Consultant               GTIDR
Shuai Ren                           E T Consultant             GTIDR
Samuel L. Zimmerman                   Consultant               EASCS
Gladys Frame                          Consultant               EASCS
Xi Zhao                               Consultant               EASCS
Jing Xiong                            Consultant               EASCS
Emmanuel Py                    Infrastructure Specialist       EASWE
Xuan Peng                         Program Assistant            EACCF


                                          40
Ruifeng Yuan                       Program Assistant            EACCF
Yunqing Tian                         Team Assistant             EACCF
Dawei Yang                              Consultant              EASTS
Zheng Liu                        Procurement Specialist         EAPPR
Yi Dong                    Sr Financial Management Specialist   EASFM
Haiyan Wang                          Finance Officer            WFALN
Kishor Uprety                        Senior Counsel             LEGAM
Alejandro Alcala Gerez               Senior Counsel             LEGAM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                           2.98                     19.70
  FY06                                           0.00                      0.00
  FY07                                          17.38                    116.84
  FY08                                          19.76                    112.15
  FY09                                                                     0.98
                           Total:                                        249.67
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                           9.90                     50.33
  FY10                                           6.40                     46.48
  FY11                                           6.60                     59.81
  FY12                                          10.73                     84.14
  FY13                                           5.83                     50.89
  FY14                                           9.42                     47.29
  FY15                                           5.00                     20.00
                           Total:                                        358.94




                                           41
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1.      The borrower’s ICR was prepared by the National Project Management Office in
June 2014 following the final project workshop. The ICR consists of 74 pages and contains
the following content: (i) project background; (ii) description of how the project was
implemented and use of funds; (iii) description of key components at national and city-
levels (Components 1 and 2 respectively); (iv) description of outputs; (v) description of
project outcomes; (vi) project impacts and evaluation; and (vii) experience gained and
lessons learned. The main text is supported by five annexes with two being of particular
interest: (i) Annex IV – status in project cities; and (ii) Annex V – evaluation table that
reports in general details on the end of project status of Intermediate Outcome Indicators
and the PDO, with a preliminary attempt at measuring the GEO indicators.

2.     While much of the text is descriptive and contains similar information on project
background and outputs that can be found elsewhere in this GEF/World Bank it is a
valuable summary from the borrower’s perspective. Several sections provide some useful
analysis and observations that are summarized below.

A6.1 Use of Funds (from Section 2)

3.      As of the end of July, 2014, through withdrawals and reimbursement, the
cumulative use of GEF grant funds amounted to US$ 12.5 million, accounting for 60% of
the grant total (US$ 21 million), of which the PMO withdrew and reimbursed US$ 3.2
million and the local project offices’ cumulative use of GEF grant funding added up to
US$ 9.3 million. It is estimated that by the time of the project account closure, the PMO
will be able to withdraw and reimburse another US$ 900,000 while the local project offices
are able to withdraw and reimburse US$ 3.6 million. The accumulated withdrawals and
reimbursements is expected to be US$ 17 million in total, accounting for 80% of the grant
total.

4.      Generally speaking, three main reasons have led to a low utilization of the grant.
First, some demonstration cities lagged behind in the course of bidding and procurement
and were rather slow in the withdrawal and reimbursement procedures. Secondly, a certain
number of activities of the Component 1 at the national level were canceled. Thirdly, some
international study tours and training sessions were cancelled due to stricter restriction on
the number of delegates and delegations going abroad since last year.


A6.2 Experience Gained and Lessons Learned (From Section 7)

A6.2.1 Experience Gained

5.     Successful Implementation Based on Efficient Management of the Project.
Urban transport development involves many government departments, including the
development and reform commissions as well as departments of finance, construction,
planning, transport, public security, etc.


                                             42
At the start of the project, a Project Steering Committee composed of the National
Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development, Ministry of Transport; Ministry of Environmental Protection,
Ministry of Land and Resources, Ministry of Public Security, and China’s Association of
Mayors was set up and convened seven sessions.

6.      In the course of the project implementation, responsible officials of relevant
bureaus and departments of the National Development and Reform Commission and the
Ministry of Finance as well as members of the Project Executing Team of the World Bank
participated in the project training sessions and inspected project sites in the pilot
demonstration cities for checking up project work and directing the local project staff in
their work. The Project Management Office not only worked out a general work plan for
project implementation, but also the training plans including the plans for study tours. All
those plans have been carried out in great earnest. In addition, the Project Management
Office held meetings for exchange of experience and organized specialists for offering
technical guidance to the participating cities.

7.      In the course of the project implementation, most of the pilot cities set up a leading
group with the mayor or a vice mayor as the group leader for the project implementation.
As a result, the project activities have been carried out smoothly. Through the project
implementation, the decision makers in the urban transport sector absorbed the advanced
transport development concepts and put more emphasis upon urban transport development
and enhanced their capacity of directing the team in the work of urban transportation
development. And what is more, capable project management agencies are established at
the local level and highly efficient mechanism for project coordination was formed. That
is of great importance to successful project implementation.

8.      Project Progress and Efficiency Based on the Understanding of World Bank
Policies and Operational Process. As a rule, all World Bank projects should be
implemented in accordance with the World Bank policies and procedures as well as the
rules and regulations and the requirements of recipient countries. From 2008 to 2012, the
PMO organized six training sessions in World Bank procurement and financial
management for the purpose of making the local project managers better understand the
Bank's procedures and relevant domestic policies so as to act accordingly to guarantee the
smooth implementation of the project and achieve better results.

9.      Sound Technical Foundation for Success of Program Based on Close
Cooperation with WB Team and Technical Service and Guidance Provided by Members
of the Core Expert Team.         In order to guarantee the smooth implementation of the
program, the PMO not only kept close contact and strengthened cooperation with the WB
team, but also traveled to all the demonstration cities with WB teammates for project site
inspection and provision of technical guidance. Besides, the PMO had experienced foreign
and domestic experts on urban transport well organized to provide technical guidance and
monitoring service to all the demonstration cities. Those experts made on-the-site
investigation in the pilot cities and checked the quality of every aspect of the project at all



                                              43
levels in terms of concept, contents, and achievements. Their efforts laid a sound technical
foundation for the success of the project.

10.     Sustainability Based on Local Technical Teams’ Participation. The local
technical teams are encouraged to participate in the project activities. Their participation is
advantageous to data collection and analysis so as to ensure that the proposed measures
tally with the actual local conditions. In the course of the project implementation, the local
technical teams absorbed new concepts and advanced expertise and enhanced their capacity.
That is of great importance to the follow-up project activities for promotion of sustainable
urban development.

A6.2.2 Suggestions and Recommendations

11.      On Selection of Demonstration Cities. The program designing and the selection of
the pilot demonstration cities were completed at the initial state of the project preparations
in 2005. When the program was originally designed, it aimed to cover the Eastern, Central,
and Western part of China to involve large, medium-sized and small cities, and especially
incorporate the Central and West China Development Strategy, focusing on the central and
western underdeveloped regions. The program intended to use the experience of selected
cities to promote work in the entire region for the promotion of sustainable development
of transportation in large, medium-sized and small cities. It is suggested that future
cooperation of this nature with the World Bank could focus on fewer cities so as to make
the program play a better demonstrative role.

12.     On Procurement and Reimbursement Process. On the one hand, the program is
restricted in the World Bank procurement procedure and in project restructuring
agreement; on the other hand, the implementation is affected by the institutional capacity
of the local project offices and technical capacity of the local project teams and influenced
by the conflicts of the change of plans and time and task constraints. As a result, some pilot
cities are slow in terms of procurement and bidding process. Although some of the
demonstration cities have proceeded well with their work and achieved satisfactory
outcomes, the obstacles in the mechanism of withdrawal and reimbursement, especially the
communication and coordination problems between local project offices and the local
finance departments in the withdrawal and reimbursement process have resulted in slower
program progress.

13.     Therefore, it is suggested that in the forthcoming cooperation with the World Bank,
PMO should strengthen its training of the managerial staff and make them become familiar
with the WB procurement procedure and project management process in a shortest possible
time. And that, local project offices should strengthen communication and coordination
with relevant departments with a view to speeding up the withdrawal and reimbursement
process. In addition, it is hoped that the World Bank procedures and the domestic
management procedures would be simplified and coordinated with each other for the
purpose of acceleration of the payment process.

14.  On Team Management Enhancement. Due to the fact that both the Project
Management Office and the local project offices are deemed as temporary organizations
                                             44
and that the program implementation requires a long time, there has been some mobility of
the managerial staff, and the technical team composed of specialists is not quite stable. In
some participating cities, there is some change in the project management organizations.
Besides, a certain number of the project managerial staff are not quite familiar with the
World Bank process. The above facts have, in a sense, exerted influence upon the
effectiveness and efficiency of project management in few specific activities.

15.     Therefore, it is suggested that in the forthcoming cooperation with the World Bank:
(i) the managerial staff of the project office and the technical team composed of specialists
should be made relatively stable (ii) capacity of the managerial staff should be enhanced;
and (iii) project management and guidance should be further strengthened.

16.      On Utilization of Project Funds. In the course of the project implementation,
especially for the capacity building component at the national level, some project activities
concerning international study tours were negatively influenced on account of some
restrictions imposed by the state concerning the number of international study tour and the
mission members. As a result, the original plans for the training sessions to be conducted
abroad were not fully carried out, resulting in unsatisfactory utilization of the project funds.

17.     Therefore, it is suggested that in future cooperation with the World Bank, especially
for the implementation of the budgetary activities, project plans should be appropriately
adjusted in a timely manner according to the changes of domestic policies and relevant
rules and regulations. At the same time, the availability of domestic matching funds should
be further guaranteed for the smoother implementation of the project.




                                              45
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Project Appraisal Document, May 2008
   2. Aide-Memoires and ISRs
   3. Borrower’s ICR in English, December 2014




                                         46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Chita
                                                                                80°E                     90°E                                            100°E                                110°E                                     120°E                                 130°E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               He
                                                                                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ilo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Chita

                                                                             KAZAKHSTAN
                                                   CHINA                                                                                                                                                                                                               HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Qiqihar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Harbin
                                                                                                                                                      MO NGO LIA
                                                                     To
                                                                   Bishkek
             40°                                                                                                                                                                           To
                N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Changchun
                                                                                       Urumqi                                                                                          Ulaanbaatar
                                                           To                                                                                                                                                                                                           J I L I N
                                       To                Bishkek
                    TAJ             Dushanbe
                        IK   IST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shenyang
                                A                    Kashi                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIAON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L I A O N IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ING            DEM.               40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                         L                                                                           Anshan       PEOPLE'S
                                   N




                                                                                                                                                                                    GO                                                                                                             Sea of
                                                                        X I N J I A N G                                                                                        M ON         Hohhot                                                                                 REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                          NE
                                                                                                                                                                             I        Baotou                                 BEIJING                                               KOREA           Japan
             AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                          Hua
                                                                                                                                                                                               ng He                                  BEIJING    Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tianjin Hai     Dalian
                                     To
                                    Mardan                                                                                                                                                                                   H E B E I TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                      Yinchuan                                  Shijiazhuang      Weihai                                 REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Taiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                  IA
                        This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                                            Jinan
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHANXI




                                                                                                                                                                              NINGX
                        the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                             Xining                                                                                         Qingdao
             PAKISTAN   World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                     Lanzhou                                              Changzhi                                   Yellow
                        colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Linfen                             SHANDONG
                        any other information shown
                                                                                                                QINGHAI                                                                                                                                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jiaozuo
             30°
                        on this map do not imply, on
                                                                             X I Z A N G                            To
                                                                                                                      ng                                                           Xianyang             Luoyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Zhengzhou                                                           JAPAN
                N       the part of The World Bank                                                                         t                                       G A N S U                                                                        JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                            Xi'an
                                                                                                                       ia n
                        Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                  Huang He
                        legal status of any territory,
                        or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                          SHAANXI                    HENAN
                        acceptance of such
                        boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hefei              Nanjing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shanghai                           30°N
                                                                                                        Nu                                                                                                                                                         SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AN  HUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N HU
                    0               300 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                            HUBEI
                                                                                                                                           Jinsha    SICHUAN                                         Chang Jiang                                                 Hangzhou                 East




                                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                Lhasa                                                                                                                             Wuhan




                                                                                                                                                                                             IN
                                                                                                                               La



                                                                                                                                                                           Chengdu
                                                                                                                                  n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         China




                                                                                                                                                                                             Q
                                            INDIA
                                                                                                                                ca




                                                                                                                                                                                          NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZHEJIANG
                                                                   NEPAL
                                                                                                                                   ng




                    0        100     200       300 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                         O
                                                                                                                                                                                       CH
                                                80°E                                                                                                                                                                                        Nanchang
                                                                   CHINATo                                                                                                              Chongqing
                                                                        Nepalganj                                                                                                                                             Changsha
                                                                                       To BHUTAN                                                                                                          H U N AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          HU    AN
              G E F - W O RL D B AN K UR BAN T R A NS PO RT                            Munger
                                                                                                                                                                                  GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                  G UIZ HOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J IAN   GXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I A N GXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F U J I A N Fuzhou
                        PA RTNER S H I P P R OG RA M                                                                                                                                  Guiyang

                                                               PROJECT CITIES                                                                          Kunming
                                                               PROJECT PROVINCE BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                           TAIWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                            YUNNAN                                                                      GUANGDONG
                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                G U A N G X I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Xun          Dongguan
                                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS                              To                                                                                       Guangzhou
                                                                                                                                MYANMAR




                                                                                                         Mandalay                                                                                Nanning                            HONG KONG
                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                  MACAO                                                                 20°N
                                                                             20°N                       MYANMAR                                                     VIETNAM
                                                               RIVERS
                                                                                                                                          LAO
                                                               MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                       Haikou
                                                                                                                                        PEOPLE'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 35397
MARCH 2007




                                                               RAILROADS                                                                  DEM.                                                    HAINAN
                                                                                                                               THAILAND                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHILIPPINES
                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                        REP.                                     Da Nang
                                                                               90°E
                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                   100°E                                                           110°E                                                         120°E
