 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14813

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 09/03/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P090335                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: China:                        Project Costs (US$M):                      27.0                 17.3
                         China-gef-world Bank
                         Urban Transport
                         Partnership Prog
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                         0                       0
      Sector Board:      Transport                     Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                               06/24/2008
                                                             Closing Date:           06/30/2013           12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Urban Transport (48%); Sub-national government administration (32%); Central government
                           administration (20%)
          Theme(s):        Climate change (50%); Urban planning and housing policy (25%); City-wide Infrastructure
                           and Service Delivery (25%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Kavita Mathur           Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objectives were: " (a) to achieve a paradigm shift in China's urban transport policies and
investments toward the promotion of public and non-motorized modes of transport that are less energy intensive and
polluting than those fostered by current urban land-use planning and transport systems; and (b) to slow the forecast
growth of urban transport greenhouse gas emissions in China's cities" ( Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund
Grant Agreement, dated August 14, 2008, p.5).

The Project Appraisal Document indicates the first sub-objective as the project development objective and the second
sub-objective as the Global Environmental Objective.

Following IEG procedures, this ICR Review is based upon IEG’s assessment of the achievement of the project
objective as formulated in the GEF's Grant Agreement.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: Strategy Development and Capacity Building at the National Level (appraisal cost US$12.75 million,
with GEF grant at US$7.75 million; GEF actual cost US$3.23 million) targeted a set of activities to be carried out by
the national government to help facilitate an enabling national environment for sustainable urban transport initiatives.
This included: (i) National Urban Transport Policies and Strategies; (ii) Technical Training and Capacity Building
Program; (iii) Stakeholder Participation, Dissemination and Awareness Raising Program; and (iv) Monitoring and
Evaluation.

Component 2: Pilot Demonstration Projects in 14 Cities and one Province (appraisal cost US$13.56 million, with
GEF grant at US$13 million; GEF actual cost US$12.22 million) targeted a set of activities for local governments to
help foster demonstration of catalytic interventions for other Chinese cities to replicate. This included technical
assistance to the pilot cities and Liaoning Province on sustainable transport solutions, consisting of development of
bus rapid transit (BRT) and bus priority corridors, improvement of public transport services and non-motorized
transport (NMT) trips, developing travel demand management (TDM) schemes, and designing transit- oriented
development (TOD) plans.

Component 3: Project Management (appraisal cost US$1.25 million, with GEF grant at US$0.25 million; GEF actual
cost US$0.81 million) was to support the Project Office at the national level to implement the national component, as
well as to support and supervise the pilot cities component.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The total project cost was US$17.26 million at closure, as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$27
million.

Financing: The project was funded by a GEF grant and there was no other co- financing. GEF Grant in the amount of
US$21 million was disbursed at US$16.26 million by project closure. US$4.74 million were cancelled as several
planned activities were not carried out.

Borrower contribution : A total of US$6 million counterpart funds were committed at appraisal, and US$1 million (in
cash) were disbursed by project close, including counterparts funds for Component 1 as well as project management.

Dates: The project closing date was extended twice by a total of 18 months during project restructuring in 2013 and
2014, as a result of delays in procurement. The project was also restructured in 2009 to change the project
implementing agency from the Ministry of Finance to the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC).


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High.
The project development objectives were consistent with the Government's 11th Five- Year period (2006-2010) and
12th Five- Year period (2011-2015) Plans, which prioritized inclusive development and greener growth by promoting
low-carbon urban transport, pollution management and strengthening mechanisms for managing climate change.
These priorities were also reflected in the Government's strategy- China 2030: Building a Modern, Harmonious, and
Creative Society. The project objectives remained relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy FY2013-2016,
which aims at promoting low-carbon urban transport and demonstrating pollution management measures. The
objectives also remained relevant to GEF-6 strategy in the climate change focal area that includes promoting
innovation and supportive policies, and demonstrating mitigation options with systemic impacts.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The link between the activities financed by the project and outcomes related to the attainment of the project objectives
was logical. Technical assistance in strategy development and capacity building at the national level and piloting
sustainable transport demonstration projects in the selected cities were expected to shift in China's urban transport
policies and investments toward the promotion of less energy intensive and polluting public and non-motorized modes
of transport, and help slow the forecast growth of urban transport greenhouse gas emissions in China's cities.

Project design supported initiatives at the national level to provide policy guidance to cities and piloting innovative
solutions at the city level. The complexity, however, of inclusion of 19 cities (14 pilot cities and one province)
throughout the country was underestimated, resulting in slow implementation pace. Pilot cities were competitively
selected for demonstration effects in public transport investments and were expected to trigger replication in at least
25 cities. Initially, a phased approach was planned focusing only on the national component, and then starting from
inclusion of three to five cities.
4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To achieve a paradigm shift in China 's urban transport policies and investments toward the promotion of public and
non-motorized modes of transport that are less energy intensive and polluting than those fostered by current urban
land-use planning and transport systems , and to slow the forecast growth of urban transport greenhouse gas
emissions in China's cities .

Substantial.

Outputs
  A national public transport strategy was prepared with government funding and issued as Directive #64 by the
    State Council. Directive #64 requires all national agencies and local governments to give priority to the
    development of public transport, integrate land use and public transport development and explore innovative
    financing mechanisms for public transport. The associated legislative changes and technical guidelines funded
    by GEF were prepared towards the end of the project but were not issued by project closure. A comprehensive
    national urban transport strategy was not prepared as planned.
  10 pilot cities updated their local urban transport plans using the GEF Grant. The target of 30 cities using the
    updated technical guidelines and standards is likely to be achieved after project closure, as other cities are in the
    process of updating their local plans under the guidance of Directive #64.
  A national sustainable urban transport training curriculum has been prepared and delivered. The Leaders in
    Urban Transport Planning training program was localized for China and jointly delivered by China's Association of
    Mayors and the Bank. 13 training courses were carried out with participation of over 1500 people from 20
    different cities (target was 3).
  A web- based knowledge system for sustainable urban transport was established in Chinese and English, with
    allocation of a two- year operation budget beyond the project closing date (www.cutppkb.org ).
  Methodologies for deriving the results indicators for the pilot activities and guidelines for standardized data
    gathering and reporting were not developed.

Outcome
  The project resulted in a strong demonstration effect. Over 60 non-pilot cities showed interest in implementing
    urban transport investments and plans that promote public and non-motorized transport (against the target of 25
    cities). Among these, 26 cities secured funding and started implementation these projects (the target was 10
    cities). Five cities implemented BRTs and seven cities implemented integration of public and non-motorized
    transport, exceeding the target of eight. Four cities increased parking fee and/or introduced vehicle
    purchase/usage restriction, exceeding the target of one. Three cities started implementing transit- oriented
    development plans along the mass transit systems, exceeding the target of one.
  Potential reduction in transport CO2 emissions over ten years in participating cities. Transport C02 emissions in
    the cities participating in the demonstration projects were estimated to be lower than their “business-as-usual”
    forecasts by 3.93 megatons over a 10 year-period, exceeding the target of one megaton.
  Increase in passenger trips made by public transport and and non-motorized transport over 10 years. Weihai is
    forecast to achieve a 3.2% increase in public transport and non-motorized transport trips, and Changzhi is
    forecast to achieve an increase of only 0.3%. The target was set at 5% for the cities participating in the
    demonstration projects compared to “business-as usual” forecasts. The data to produce estimates were only
    available in the above two cities.



5. Efficiency:

An economic analysis was not carried out at appraisal and project closure as the project financed a series of technical
assistance activities, as reported by the ICR p.15.

Cost Effectiveness. The GEF contribution per ton of CO2 emission mitigated was estimated at US$4.14. The direct
CO2 emission reduction was calculated from the seven selected pilot interventions where data were available and
excluded emission reductions from the replication effect of the project. The project compares well with the similar GEF
projects in the transport sector in China, for example US$ 24.5 for the GEF City Cluster Eco-Transport
Project and US$ 3.5 for the GEF Guangdong Green Freight Demonstration Project).

Marginal Abatement Cost (MAC). The seven pilot interventions used to quantify CO2 emission reductions resulted in
an estimated MAC of US$246 per ton. This result is considered good by the ICR, which compares it to Transjakarta
BRT system of 200km supported under GEF, with a MAC of over US$600 per ton.

The project experienced delay of 18 months in implementation due to procurement issues. In addition, 23% of the
grant was not used due to cancellation of several activities.

Efficiency is assessed as modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                       No
      ICR estimate                    No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
    Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is substantial. The project substantially achieved its
development objective, albeit with modest efficiency. The overall outcome is Moderately Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Institutional risk. Government commitment is strong toward supporting a sustainable urban transport system of
      reduced energy intensity and pollution levels. The Ministry of Transport (MOT) has set out the policy directions on
      sustainable urban transport development in the 12th Five-Year Plan for Comprehensive Transport. The
      promotion of public and non- motorized transport, and the integration of land use and transport development,
      have been widely endorsed by local governments as the effective approach to address urban transport
      challenges. The initiative of city-to-city peer learning and knowledge dissemination through a nationwide platform
      has been taken on by TransFORM, an urban transport solution platform that was jointly established by China and
      the World Bank.

     Financial risk. Financing construction of new public transport infrastructure could become a concern for local
      governments, due to the new Budget Law that became effective on January 1, 2015. Local governments can no
      longer raise off-budget infrastructure financing through their urban development investment companies (UDICs),
      which used to be a primary source of financing for urban transport infrastructure.


     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
      The project design was built on Bank’s extensive experience in urban transport and engagement in China. The
project concept was formulated based on the World Bank working paper (2006), which identified the institutional
and policy challenges in China’s urban transport sector and proposed a clear set of near-term strategic priorities to
fill these gaps. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) was established to increase the level of coordination and
transparency across national government agencies. To enhance the quality and relevance of project design,
inputs were solicited from the national and local governments, as well as from the China Association of Mayors.
The assessment of risks was overall adequate, though the risks of implementing the project in 19 pilot cities with
numerous TA activities, and the fiduciary risk of all but three city-level Project Management Offices being new to
Bank operations were underestimated. M&E design included appropriate outcome and intermediate outcome
indicators; however, the target value for one of the indicators was ambitious and the methodology for measuring
emission reduction was to be determined through the project TA support.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory
b. Quality of supervision:

Supervision missions were carried out biannually. To supervise 19 cities, the Bank mobilized task teams preparing
or supervising other Bank transport operations in the pilot cities and visited on average one-third to half of the
project cities during each implementation status reporting (ISR) period. The National Project Management Office
(NPMO) participated in almost all of the Bank’s supervision visits, and also visited cities on its own. The ISR
ratings were candid and appropriate; the indicator of emissions reductions was not however measured till the end
of the project.

Fiduciary aspects were supervised adequately, and all TA procurement documents were prior-reviewed. Financial
management and disbursement were closely monitored, and the project team regularly reminded the NPMO to
reconcile financial statements from the local PMOs and the MoF to speed up disbursement processing.

The ICR finds that some of the implementation problems encountered could have been addressed more
effectively, had more supervision resources been identified. Overall, the Bank could not ensure the completion of
several activities, in particular the TA package for M&E and the comprehensive national urban transport strategy.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government of China demonstrated sustained commitment to the project during preparation and
implementation. It initiated and completed the selection of pilot cities in a timely manner, set up a Project Steering
Committee to ensure high-level inter-agency coordination and guidance on urban transport, and facilitated the
preparation and adoption of policies and guidelines that support sustainable urban transport development.
Adequate counterpart funds, however, were not allocated in a timely manner for project management at the
national level (about US$0.30 million in cash were allocated, in comparison to the appraised amount of US$1
million for project management). Project disbursement lagged expenditures throughout the project as a result of
the slow processing of withdrawal applications by the Ministry of Finance. Also, the Government was slow in
processing a restructuring request to extend the project closing date and utilize the remaining portion of the grant.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Implementing Agencies at the national level. The responsibility for project implementation was initially with
China’s Ministry of Finance (MoF), through its Project Office (PO). The ICR does not rate its performance
separately, it just notes that during the initial implementation period, the national PO under MoF lacked ownership
of the urban transport agenda and did not have adequate staff to manage and coordinate project implementation.
The project was restructured in December 2009 to move the national PO to the National Development and Reform
Commission (NDRC) and is referred to as the National Project Management Office (NPMO). NPMO
demonstrated strong commitment and overcame many challenges to revive the momentum in pilot cities. NPMO
also provided substantial support to pilot and non-pilot cities on the planning, design and implementation of
sustainable urban transport projects. The ICR however notes (p.20) that NPMO was unable to hire consultants for
some of the national TAs (i.e., comprehensive national urban transport strategy and the M&E system). NPMO’s
delay in completing two other TAs also resulted in the absence of national guidelines for guiding pilot city projects
during implementation. The ICR rates the NPMO’s performance as moderately unsatisfactory.

Local Implementing Agencies. The ICR rates their performance as satisfactory and notes the commitment of local
PMOs to the project and their persistent efforts to speed up the implementation progress despite delays in
procuring consultants. The local agencies participated actively in capacity building and dissemination activities.
Most pilot cities adopted sustainable urban transport approaches to update their local urban transport plans and
implemented investments using their own resources.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The outcome and intermediate outcome indicators were appropriate. The indicators on reduction in CO2 emissions
and increase in daily passenger trips by walking, cycling and public transport measure were however not readily
available in the local M&E system. Both indicators involved a comparison of ten- year forecasts under a with-project
scenario with the business-as- usual scenario, and required extensive data collection and modeling efforts in all 19
pilot cities. The Grant included an allocation of US$ 1.75 million to NPMO for: (i) developing the methodologies for
indicator derivation and guidelines for standardized data gathering; and (ii) reporting on indicators based on data
provided by the pilot cities. The ICR finds that the end-of-project target for the second outcome indicator (increase in
daily passenger trips by walking, cycling and public transport over 10 years compared to business as usual) was
over-ambitious. The interventions in the pilot cities targeted only selected corridors, and increases in public transport
and NMT trips in these corridors as a result of pilot interventions would be relatively small in percentage terms
compared to those trips in the entire city.

 b. M&E Implementation:
    NPMO carried out frequent visits to the pilot cities and updated the indicators regularly in the semi-annual progress
reports, except the two outcome indicators on reduction in CO2 emissions and increase in daily passenger trips. No
estimates of CO2 emission reductions or the associated modal shares of transport, walking and cycling were reported
during project implementation. The CO2 emission reductions in three pilot cities were based on estimates provided by
the cities; each city used its own methodology and the values were not verifiable. CO2 emission reductions in the ICR
are based on additional passenger data collected during the ICR stage and results from the TA studies of the pilot
cities. Methodologies for deriving the results indicators for the pilot activities and guidelines for standardized data
gathering and reporting were not developed.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The ICR does not discuss how M&E was utilized.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was an environmental category ‘C’ as it only supported consultancy services and capacity building. The Terms of
References for consultancy outputs from the strategic planning framework, city- level plans and investment studies
required them to take into account environmental and social considerations.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement: The ICR (p.10) reports that procurement under the project complied with Bank Procurement
Guidelines. The delays in procurement were caused by (i) lack of familiarity with Bank procurement policies and
procedures (most city-level PMOs had only one or two consultancy contracts to manage under the project and were
not motivated to become fully conversant with the Bank’s procurement policies and procedures); (ii) over-commitment
of consultancy firms or individuals, given the similarity in the assignments in different pilot cities; and (iii) NPMO’s p
roposal to contract the Institute of Comprehensive Transportation affiliated to NDRC to prepare the national urban
transport strategy, which was not acceptable under Bank Procurement Guidelines due to conflict of interest.

Financial management. The ICR (p.10) reports that financial management during implementation was rated as
moderately satisfactory during the latter half period of project implementation for reasons that included the following:
(i) some internal control weaknesses were identified by the external auditor in the annual audit reports (as confirmed
by the project team, these were addressed); and (ii) as a result of the change in the IA from MoF to NDRC,
responsibility for consolidating financial statements prepared by city-level PMOs was not clear and Interim Financial
Reports were delayed.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Two lessons were selected from the ICR:

Adequate resources should be allocated for technical support that could leverage public transport investments at
the city level for demonstration and replication effects.

Demonstration effect could be achieved through selection of a few cities, without undermining its effectiveness. This
could also reduced project complexity and speed up implementation.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and outcome- oriented. The quality of evidence is adequate. The ICR provides sufficient detail in
the discussion of implementation experience and offers a thorough analysis of the M&E design and indicators.
Lessons are based on the project's experience. The ICR would have benefitted from providing a deeper insight and
discussion of poverty focus and gender aspects related to the project- supported TA and capacity building activities.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
