Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3777-CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.8 MILLION
TO THE
SEWERAGE BOARD OF LIMASSOL-AMATHUS
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A
LIMASSOL SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
April 16, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS-'
US$1.00                       = CEO.54 (Cyprus Pounds)
C£1.00 = mils 1,000           = US$1.85
ABBREVIATIONS
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding
MANR - Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
SBA   - Sovereign Base Authority (United Kingdom)
SBLA - The Sewerage Board of Limassol - Amathus
SCP   - Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development
UNHCR - United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
VPP   - Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project
WDD   - Water Development Department (Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources)
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Dec-ember 31
1/ As of November 1983.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
LIMASSOL SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Sewerage Board of Limassol - Amathus (SBLA).
Guarantor:    The Republic of Cyprus.
Loan Amount:  US$16.8 mil:Lion.
Terms:         Fifteen years, including three years grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The proposed project represents part of a two-stage development
program of the Government to provide suitable sewerage and flood
drainage systems to the major urban center of Limassol and the
contiguous area of Amathus.  The project's main objectives are
to: (i) protect the area's water supply from contamination,
thereby eliminating potential health hazards to the populace and
preserving the important tourist industry; (ii) eliminate
intermittent flooding that creates substantial repair and
rehabilitation costs and interrupts industrial and commercial
activity; and (iii) contribute to the further rationalization
of the management of Cyprus' scarce water resources.  The
project consists of:  (i)  a central sewage collection and
treatment system; (ii) upgrading the existing stormwater flood
drainage system; (iii) provision for recycling of treated
effluent for irrigation use; and (iv) training of SBLA staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- IiL -
Estimated Project Cost:
Local       Forein        Total
--------(US$ Million)--------
Sewerage System:
Laterals and Main Sewers                             5.1           1.8          7.0
Interceptor and Lift Stations                        2.4           3.7          6.1
Pumping Station and Force Main                       1.4           1.8          3.3
Treatment Plant and Outfall                          3.0          4.2           7.2
Operation & Maintenance Equipment                     -            0.1          0.1
Land Acquisition                                     0.9            -           0.9
Construction Supervision                             0.5           0.5          1.0
Training                                              -           0.1           0.1
Base Cost                                         13.4         12.3          25.7
Physical Contingencies                               1.7           1.4          3.1
Price Contingencies                                  1.8           1.9          3.7
Sewerage System Cost                              16.9         15.6          32.5
Drainage System:
Basic Works                                          3.0           1.0          4.0
Construction Supervision                             0.1           -            0.1
Physical Contingencies                               0.3          0.1           0.4
Price Contingencies                                  0.2          0.1           0.3
Drainage System Cost                               3.6          1.2           4.8
Total Project Cost 1/                             20.5         16.8          37.3
Financing Plan:                                       Local        Foreign       Total
-------(US  Million)--------
Bank                                                    -           16.8         16.8
Government                                              9.8           -           9.8
Council of Europe                                       7.8           -           7.8
Internal Funds                                         2.9            -           2.9
Total                                             20.5         16.8          37.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY        FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
--           ^-   Million)---------------
Annual                                  2.3      4.7      4.6      3.2      1.8      0.2
Cumulative                              2.3      7.0    11.6    14.8    16.6    16.8
Rate of Return: N.A.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4923b--CY, dated April 11, 1984.
Maps: Nos. IBRD 17544 and 17545.
1/ Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SEWERAGE BOARD OF LIMASSOL-AMATHUS WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS FOR A LIMASSOL SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus with the Guarantee of the Republic
of Cyprus for the equivalent of US$16.8 million to help finance the foreign
exchange costs of the Limassol Sewerage and Drainage Project. The loan would
have a term of fifteen years including three years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate. The Resettlement Fund of the Council of Europe is
expected to participate in financing the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY"L
2.       The last economic report on Cyprus (No. 4069-CY) was circulated to
the Executive Directors in January 1983. An economic mission visited Cyprus
in October 1983; its findings are reflected in this Part. Although Bank
economic missions to Cyprus heave visited all economically important areas of
the country and had discussions with the Government as well as the Turkish
Cypriot authorities, it has not been possible to assess fully the economic
situation and prospects of the whole island, given the extremely limited
economic data base for northern Cyprus, which is under Turkish Cypriot
control. Hence the analysis provided in this and other Parts of this Report
relates only to the Government-controlled part in southern Cyprus. The Basic
Country Data is provided in Annex 1.
General Background
3.       The economy of Cyprus grew at over 7 percent per annum between 1960
and 1973, despite tension between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
communities. The major contributing factors were a competent public
administration, dynamic entrepreneurs, a high rate of investment especially in
the private sector, a rapid increase in agricultural exports contributing to
strong overall balance of payments, and flexible fiscal and monetary policies
that helped to stimulate! growth while maintaining domestic price stability.
4.       The 1974 events brought a sudden, although temporary, end to this
long period of economic growth. Since then, the country has de facto been
divided into two parts by a cease-fire line, with decreasing movement of
people and goods between them. The southern part under the Government's
control accounts for 64 percent of the area of the island and over 77 percent
of total population. In the northern part under Turkish Cypriot control, 23
percent of the total population lives on 36 percent of the land area. About
one-third of the total 'population was displaced by the 1974 events, with
1/ Identical to Part I of the President's Report (P-3720-CY, dated February
10, 1984) for the Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development (Phase I), which was approved by the Executive Directors on
March 6, 1984.



- 2 -
nearly 180,000 Greek Cypriots moving south, and approximately 45,000 Turkish
Cypriots moving north. Most of the displaced population has now been
resettled. UN-sponsored intercomnmunal talks to find a possible political
solution have been held intermittently since 1978. The political situation
has been complicated somewhat by the unilateral declaration of independence by
the Turkish-Cypriot Administration on November 15, 1983. However, this
development has not materially altered the economic realities that have
existed since the de facto partition of the island following the events of
1974.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
5.       With the displacement of population and severance of sectoral
linkages in mid-1974, the economy was severe!ly depressed; the unemployment
rate rose to nearly 25 percent of the Labor force, and exports and imports
fell by about 55 percent in the second half of 1974. The drop in export
earnings resulted mainly from the non-exploitation of about one-half of
Cyprus' cultivated land area (which produced. over 50 percent of its
agricultural exports) and the non-utilization of about two-thirds of the
island's tourist facilities.
6.       Government policy to reactivate the economy in the area under its
control primarily through an expansionary fiscal policy proved highly
successful. GDP (in real terms) grew annually by an average of 10.7 percent
between 1975 and 1982. Since 1979, the growth rate has slowed down and was
about 4.5 percent in 1982, as the economy reached full capacity and world
recession adversely affected some export markets. In parallel, unemployment
decreased from over 16 percent in 1975 to about 3 percent in 1982. Despite
rapid growth, the rate of inflation remained modest.  Consumer prices rose to
as much as 13 percent in 1980, but slowed to 6.4 percent in 1982.
7.       The Government continuedl its expansionary fiscal policy, however,
even after near-full employment was reached in 1978. This resulted in
budgetary deficits that averaged about 7.3 percent of GDP during 1979-82.
These deficits have been financed mainly by grants and external borrowing, and
by some borrowing from the Central Bank. The Government believes that it
would be able to slow down expenditures, despite the need to continue some
refugee assistance and to complete ongoing investment projects. However, its
attempts to reduce subsidies for grain and vine products are meeting strong
resistance in Parliament. Similarly, its proposal to permit an increase in
interest rates above the 9 percent ceiling has not been accepted by
Parliament. In the circumstances, the Government has attempted to increase
revenues by changing the tax system and adopting other fiscal measures to suit
the changed economic conditions; this has already significantly improved the
revenue-GDP ratio, from about 20 percent in 1979 to over 23 percent in 1982.
8.       The changes in the tax system and fiscal measures and the restraints
put on credit expansion by the Central Bank have had a deflationary impact on
the economy. Consumer and investment demands have softened, resulting in a
continuous decline in the inflation rate since 1980. This was accompanied by
a small rise in unemployment, from 2 percent in 1980 to about 3 percent in
1982.



- 3 -
9.       Stimulated by expanding local demand for consumer and investment
goods, imports increased rapidly utntil early 1980. The increases in the
current account balance of payments deficit, however, were adequately covered
by the rapidly rising external capital inflows. During 1981-82, as overall
growth decelerated, import growth slowed down while exports, especially of
services, continued to grow at a laigher rate, resulting in an improvement in
the balance of payments. Foreign exchange reserves increased, to six months
of imports at the end of 1982. For 1983, exports of goods stagnated because
of a decline in import demand in Middle Eastern countries. Tourism, however,
continues to grow at about 10 percent. As a result, the short-term outlook
for the balance of payments remains healthy.
10.      The recent favorable developments, however, have been accompanied by
two trends that could have serious adverse effects in the longer term: the
continued negative public savings and declining private investment (in real
terms) in manufacturing since 1979. As discussed in para. 7, the negative
public savings have been the result of the Government's continued expansionary
fiscal policy even after the economy reached a high levti ; of employment. The
decline in manufacturing investment resulted from several factors, including
rapidly rising labor costs, inadequate institutions to promote investment in
new products requiring modern technologies and organization, relatively lower
profitability in manufacturing compared to that in tourism and real estate,
and pessimism regarding the growth of demand for manufactured goods in the
Middle Eastern countries. Recently, however, labor cost increases have
moderated, and a declining trendi is projected.
Medium-Term Prospects
I.      The Government has launched the Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan
(1982-1986) which calls for a GDP growth rate of about 4.0 percent per year.
This is based on a continuing shift in development strategy toward
medium-scale, higher technology, more capital-intensive investments;
consolidation of small factories into larger units, to realize economies of
scale; and export and tourism as the major engines of growth. In addition,
increased emphasis is put on the promotion of international services, e.g.
off-shore banking, consultancy and professional services, to cater to Middle
Eastern and North African countries.
12.      The strategy of promot:ing investment in and export of higher quality
products and services is appropriate.  The Plan's target of a 4 percent GDP
growth is within the country's potential and the investment program is sound.
Achievement of the target, however, depends on adequate policies to generate
some public savings and to reverse the declining trend in private
manufacturing investment.
13.      Since considerable efforts have been made to increase government
revenues, these have risen significantly. To maintain this momentum, the
Government needs to (i) close tax loopholes; (ii) strengthen tax
administration and auditing procedure; (iii) raise penalties for tax evasion;
and (iv) introduce a system of value-added tax. These measures should be
complemented by a slow-down in the growth of current expenditures,
particularly of civil servants' salaries, and reduction of subsidies for



- 4-
grain production and imported animal feed. The projected declining trend in
wage increases is a favorable factor for private manufacturing investment.
However, to promote such investment Cyprus ne!eds also to: systematically
gather and disseminate technological information; establish contacts with
foreign firms and promote joint ventures; explore the availability of
licenses, technical know-how agreements and marketing arrangements; arrange
projects for finance and implementation; and provide extension services.
14.      Cyprus will continue to need an increasing inflow of foreign capital
to help finance the necessary re!structuring of its economy. However, since
access to long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral support is
expected to become increasingly limited, most future public external borrowing
to cover the projected current account deficits will have to come from
commercial sources, either in the form of export or suppliers' credit, or
commercial bank loans. Considering the continuing political uncertainties,
Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing external financing from such sources
has been encouraging. It successfully raised Eurodollar borrowings in late
1977 of $30 million, followed by loans of $50 million in 1978, $48 million in
July 1980, $85 million in September 1981 and $70 million in July 1982. The
country has also begun to attract significant export and suppliers' credits.
These forms of external borrowing are indicative of the probable future trend.
15.      The Bank's efforts to date have been directed towards encouraging
Cyprus not only to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to use Bank
projects as catalysts to attract other external support, including cofinancing
with commercial banks. Commercial bank cofinancing was arranged in 1980 in
connection with the Third Cyprus Development Bank Project (Loan 1744-CY);
substantial suppliers' credit and a Euro-currency loan for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 1873-CY) in 1980; a loan from the
Kuwait Fund for the Third Highway Project (Loan 2128-CY) in 1982; and a loan
from the European Investment Bank for the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Loan
1658-CY) in 1982.
16.      Cyprus' external debt has so far remained low, because of the past
policy of financing development from interna:L resources and the availability
of substantial levels of grant aid from Greece and the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), mainly for refugee assistance (ranging from
$36 to $59 million per year since 1974). Total long-term public debt
outstanding and disbursed was $611.9 million as of December 31, 1982. Public
debt service was about 9.7 percent of goods and non-factor services in 1982.
However, given the increasing reliance on conmercial financing, debt service
is projected to increase to about 14 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services by 1986. The Bank's share of debt outstanding and
disbursed declined from 51 percent in 1975 to about 11 percent at the end of
1982, while its share in debt service declined from 47 percent in 1975 to less
than 12 percent in 1982. Thus, the Bank's exposure, once quite high, has now
declined to a more normal level and is expected to continue to decline
further. Given this background and the Government's record of economic
management, the country continues to be creditworthy for Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS1
17.      Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of March 31, 1984, 23 loans
totalling $215.3 million (net of cancellations) were made; of this, about
$169.0 million was held by the Bank. The main areas of concentration have
been infrastructure (power, sewerage, highways and ports), industry through
the Cyprus Development Bank, agriculture and water resource development. A
summary statement of Bank loans to Cyprus as of March 31, 1984 is provided in
Annex II.
18.      The events of 1974 had a substantial impact on some of the on-going
Bank-financed projects, as well as on planned operations. In particular, the
sewerage project in Famagusta, which lay entirely in the area controlled by
the Turkish Cypriots and the Nicosia-Morphou highway, the alignment of which
coincided with the cease-fire line, were affected. The Famagusta Sewerage
Project was 90 percent complete when construction was interrupted and could
not be commissioned in the absence of a political settlement. The undisbursed
balance of the loan was, therefore, cancelled. Construction of the
Nicosia-Morphou highway was suspended after only one month of work and the
unutilized balance of about $3.6 million transferred to the Second Highway
Project. The Nicosia Sewerage Project, which straddled the Greek Cypriot and
Turkish Cypriot areas of Nicosia, was also incomplete. However, as a result
of the initiative of the UNDP and the Bank, cooperation between the two
communities on this matter was engendered and a formal agreement to complete
the project reached in September 1978. The project was completed in 1980 and
continues to benefit both communities. As regards planned operations, a
number of projects under study, or contemplated, before 1974, which were
intended to benefit directly both communities, could not be pursued because of
the de facto division of the island. The Bank, together with UNDP, continues
to explore areas where cooperation appears possible, although substantial
progress may have to await a political settlement.
19.      Disbursement performance with regard to Bank operations in Cyprus is
generally satisfactory and compares favorably with experience elsewhere. The
only loans on which disbursements had been significantly slower than
anticipated were the Second Highway Project (Loan 1344-CY) and the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Water Resources Development Project (Loan 1658-CY).
This was mainly due to difficulties faced by the contractor in the former
case, and to delays in the appointment of consultants in the latter case.
These problems have, however, been resolved and implementation of both
projects is proceeding satisfactorily.
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3720-CY,
dated February 10, 1984) for the Southern Conveyor Project for Water
Resources Development, which was approved by the Executive Directors on
March 6, 1984.



20.      The Bank continues to support activities leading to higher
productivity and exports and providing essential infrastructure justifiable in
the context of the whole island. Within this overall context, Bank lending
has made a substantial contribution towards assisting Cyprus to recover from
the 1974 events, especially in acting as a catalyst to mobilize external
sources of long-term financing. The Goverrnment recognizes that given the
relatively high per capita income in Cyprus, Bank lending has continued so far
because of the special circumstances prevailing in the country, and can be
expected to taper off gradually in the medium--term. Bank lending is,
therefore, expected to increasingly focus or critical projects of a complex
and innovative nature that aim at removing major sectoral constraints.  These
would include such projects as the recently approved project for integrating
and transferring scarce water resources between different basins in the
country, projects, such as the one presently proposed, to develop Cyprus'
sewerage systems in order to meel: the expected shortages in sewerage services
in major urban areas that are beginning to pose a health hazard and undermine
Cyprus' important tourist industry, and a project to promote investment in
higher technology manufacturing.
21.      IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has also invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant, a tourist
hotel, and in the Cyprus Investment and. Securities Corporation, and is
currently exploring opportunities for further investment in the island. As of
March 31, 1984, original gross commitments totalled $5.8 million, of which
$2.2 million are still held by IFC. A staternent of IFC investments in Cyprus
is given in Annex II.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY IND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
22.      Water resources in Cyprus are scarce- and their rational management
and development is critical to the well-being of the economy. Cyprus' average
annual rainfall varies from about 1,000 mm in the mountains to about 40 mm in
the plains.  About 85 percent of the total rainfall occurs between November
and March, and most of it runs off in fLood flcows.  Major deep aquifers are
sandstone and gypsum, and waters from both aquifers are frequently very hard
with a high sulfate content. ShaLlow aquifers have variable yields which drop
considerably during the dry season when water extraction is high and induced
recharge from rivers ceases altogether. Groundwater from shallow aquifers
together with a few perennial springs, have been the main source for
irrigation and for water supply of urban and rural communities.  Most
groundwater resources have been developed and many aquifers overpumped. As
development of minor aquifers is limited and there is little scope for
artificial recharge, surface water is increasingly important as the
predominant source of water for development.  The principal sources of surface
water exist on the southern slopes of the Troodos mountains. A number of
reservoirs have been built by the Government with Bank assistance. Most
recently, the Government, with Bank assistance, initiated the Southern
Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP), a major multi-purpose
irrigation and water supply project designed to tap the island's last



- 7 -
remaining source of surplus water to alleviate water shortages in the major
urban centers and tourist areas and provide vitally needed irrigation water.
The SCP is likely to be the largest of the major water resources development
projects for Cyprus. The Government, in consultation with the Bank, has taken
the opportunity of its implementation to introduce basic policy measures aimed
at further rationalizing the utilization of the country's water resources and
implementing realistic cost recovery measures for both domestic and irrigation
water.
23.      Sector Service Levels,  Virtually the whole population of Cyprus
receives piped water of satisfactory quality.  However, the rapidly increasing
water demand in the major t:ourist center of Limassol is approaching its
maximum level, a situlation being addressed under the SCP. In general, all
existing water supply systems are well maintained and operated. As for
sewerage services, only Nicosia has a modern sewerage system constructed under
a Bank-assisted project (para. 18). The remaining population is served by
individual disposal units consisting of septic tanks and percolation pits,
which function generally well, except in high density population areas, and in
coastal areas with high groundwater levels and where soils have poor
permeability. The Government p'Lans to expand and construct sewerage systems
in major cities and tourist cenl:ers. The proposed project represents the
Government's first major eEfort in this regard.
24.      Sector Organization.  Water resource development and the supply of
bulk water for agricultural and urban use is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR), and is carried out
through its Water Development Department (WDD). Drinking water quality
standards are established and monitored by the Ministry of Health. Sewage
effluent quality standards are regulated by the Sewerage and Drainage Law of
1971 and subsequent amendments, and the Ministry of Interior is responsible
for its implementation. Ocean sewage effluent disposal is regulated through
legislation prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Department of Fisheries. Sewage effluent quality standards for ocean disposal
are in compliance with the Convention for the Protection of the Mediterranean
Sea, of which Cyprus is a signatory.
25.      Each city is responsible for the provision of water supply and
sewerage within its corporate municipal boundaries and, in some cases, to
additional contiguous areas in agreement with the concerned local
authorities. These services are provided through separate Water Boards, and
Sewerage and Drainage Boards, whose establishment is authorized by the Council
of Ministers, and for each of which enabling legislation exists. The
distribution of water supply in rural areas is the responsibility of local
communities, administered through Village Councils.
26.      Management of water resources is fragmented in both policy and
execution. The Government. is aware of the inefficiencies resulting from such
fragmentation and under the SCE', has agreed to take the steps necessary
towards the establishment of arn integrated national water entity, which would
be responsible for all water resources in Cyprus, their development and their
use, and the implementation, operation and maintenance of all major water
supply schemes for both domestic water and irrigation.



- 8 -
27.      Sector Objectives.  In determining the optimal utilization of Cyprus'
scarce water resources, the Government gives first priority to domestic waLter
supply and aims to develop available fresh wrater resources to maintain a
continuous and safe water supply. The Government has, therefore, consistently
given the domestic water supply sector a high priority as evidenced by past
and projected sector investments. At the same time, it promotes conservation
practices through such measures as the maintenance of a tariff structure
designed to discourage wasteful high consumption. Other important objectives
are the construction of modern sewage treatment systems and the further
rationalization of the sector's institutional framework.
Bank Involvement in the Water Spl  and Sewerage Sector
28.      Bank involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector started in
1971 with the Nicosia Sewerage Project (Loan 729-CY) and Famagusta Sewerage
and Drainage Project (Loan 730-CY).  These projects provided for sewage
collection and disposal facilities and were well advanced until the events of
July 1974 when the Famagusta ProJect was suspended. The Nicosia project, on
the other hand, was completed and operations began in 1980 (para. 18).  A
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 3694) was issued on November 24, 1981
for the Nicosia project. The report noted that the aDproach followed by the
Bank in project design and institutional development was successful and
resulted in a level of achievement ant,icipated during appraisal.  A similar
institutional approach will be followed under the proposed project. The Bank
is also assisting in the implemenitationi of two major multi-purpose water
resource development projects, namely the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (VPP)
(Loan No. 1658-CY) and the SCP. The SCP was approved by the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors on March 6, 1984. Implementation of VPP is underway and
proceeding satisfactorily.
Bank Strategy
29.      Bank lending strategy in Cyprus is to focus on projects that aim to
provide assistance to areas of mcost pressing need in major sectors of the
economy (para. 20).  The Limassol Sewerage and Drainage Project provides much
needed infrastructure to protect the population from potential health hazards,
represents the first of a series of actions by the Government to provide
modern sewerage facilities in major urban centers to safeguard Cyprus' vital
tourist industry and complements the program initiated under the SCP to
optimize the utilization and management of Cyprus' scarce water resources by
providing for future use of treated sewage effluent for irrigation of
agricultural lands.
Project Area
30.      The project area defined as Greater Limassol, comprises areas within
the Towrn of Limassol, the Ayios Athanasis, Mesa Yetonia, Kato, Polemidhia, and
Yermasoyia Districts and the Amathus Imwproveinent Board, located on the
southern coast of Cyprus along the shore of Akkrotiri Bay. Its benign climate,
white sand beaches, and the Troodos mountains behind the city make this one of
the principal tourist areas in Cyprus. Since the events of 1974, the
population of Greater Limassol has increased from 95,000 (1973) to about
122,000 inhabitants estimated for 1982, making it the second largest urban



- 9 -
agglomeration in Cyprus. Tourism has greatly expanded and in 1981 about
164,000 tourists visited the area. This number is projected to reach 490,000
by 1990. This large population of residents and tourists, together with the
lack of a central sewage collection and treatment system and an inadequate
stormwater drainage system, has created a situation in which sanitation in the
Greater Limassol area has deteriorated and could jeopardize the health of the
city and undermine the valuable tourist industry.
Existing Systems
31.      Water Supply.  The town of Limassol is supplied with water from
springs located along the IKryos river, in the Kouris catchment area, some 30
kilometers north-west of the town, and from local boreholes.  The water supply
and distribution system is owned by the Limassol Water Board. Bulk water
supply in the remaining project area outside the town limits is provided by
the Water Development Department (WDD), which is an office of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources; distribution is the responsibility of
village councils.
32.      Sewerage.  At present, in the project area, wastewaters are disposed
by means of individual systems consisting mainly of septic tanks and
absorption pits. These facilities no longer function properly because volumes
of wastewaters exceed soil absorption capacity; there is insufficient space
for construction of required disposal units; and the groundwater table is
high. Due to neglect, the septic tanks fill with solid waste in a few years,
and subsequently flow into absorption pits, plugging the surrounding soil.
During the rainy season, these facilities require frequent pumping at
relatively high cost, and the occasional overflow of effluents create health
hazards and nuisance odors.
33.      Hotels and industries are required by law to install wastewater
treatment units, which are costly to construct, operate and maintain.
However, in spite of regulations, some raw sewage and industrial wastewaters
are discharged into the Akrotiri Bay and have polluted some beaches. Without
the measures to be implemented under the proposed project, the situation will
be exacerbated by further increased wastewater volumes in the Limassol area.
34.      Drainage.  The existing storm drainage system is inadequate and will
require considerable improvement. It consists primarily of surface flow to
natural water courses and rivers. Most runoff drains into four major streams,
the Yermasoyia, the Vathias and Garyllis rivers and Zakaki Creek via roadside
ditches and storm drains. A consequence of the inadequacy of the drainage
system, particularly in flood prone areas, is the financial loss incurred due
to lost production during the period of flooding. The continued growth of the
town toward the high grounds, together with the obstruction of natural
drainage courses by roads and by increased development along the shore, will
increase the frequency and severity of flooding.
35.      Solid Waste.  Domestic and commercial refuse collection and disposal
in Limassol is carried out by the municipal government. Industry is serviced
primarily by private companies. A landfill site located about 5 km. northwest
of the town is operated and maintained by the municipality. This facility is
provided with holding ponds for separate disposal of septic tank sludge.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
36.      The development of Cyprus' sewierage systems is essential not only to
meet the expected shortages of sewerage services, particularly in the major
urban centers, but also to providLe elements vital to the maintenance and
expansion of the important tourist industry. Already, pollution problems are
beginning to arise that, if not soon checked, could undermine the excellent
reputation Cyprus enjoys worldwide as a favored center of tourism. The
proposed project would involve the construction of modern sewerage, drainage,
and industrial and municipal waste treatment systems in Limassol, one of the
island's main tourist centers, as well as the introduction of longer term
solutions, development of appropriate institlutional mechanisms, and assistance
in formulating policies to ensure the effective control of growing hazards of
waste disposal and industrial pollution.
37.      The need for modernizing the sewerage and drainage systems of
Limassol had been recognized by municipal authorities as early as 1973 when
they commissioned a feasibility study for both a city master plan and a
sewerage and drainage project. Although the plan was completed in May 1974,
no action could be taken following the events of 1974.  Since then, the study
has been periodically updated and the contiguous area of Amathus included. In
the meantime, the rapid growth of tourism in the Limassol-Amathus area began
to place an increasingly heavy burden on the existing sewerage services. At
the Government's request, a Bank project identification mission visited
Limassol in September 1982 foliowing which the feasibility study was updated.
Appraisal of the project by the Bank took place in October/November 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 2 to April 6, 1984 with a
Government delegation led by Mr. Kyriakos Christofi, Director General of the
Ministry of Interior.  A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Limassol
Sewerage and Drainage Project" (No. 4923b-CY) dated April 11, 1984, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
loan and the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III. Maps of the project area are attached.
Project Objectives and Description
38.      The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i)  protect the city
water supply from contamination and eliminate potential health hazards to the
city and tourist populations from untreated sewage discharges into the
Akrotiri Bay through the provisiorn of sanitary sewage collection and treatment
facilities; (ii) eliminate the intermittent flooding that occurs during the
rainy season which creates substantial repair and rehabilitation costs and
interrupts industrial, and commercial, and other activities, by providing a
stormwater drainage system; and (iii) enhance and complement the optimization
of water resource management of Cyprus by providing for the reuse o' sewage
effluent for irrigation purposes.
39.      The proposed sewerage and drainage schemes are to be constructed in
two stages. The first stage would be constructed during the period



- 11 -
1984-1994. The works during this stage that would be constructed during the
period 1984-1990 comprise the main physical components to be considered for
financing under the proposed Bank-assisted project. The remaining first stage
works to be constructed from 1990 to 1994 consist mainly of additional lateral
and main sewer extensions that would be gradually completed during that period
of time. In order to make full economic use of the investment included in the
project, agreement was reached during negotiations that the Sewerage Board of
Limassol-Amathus (SBLA) will continue to expand the sewers and laterals within
its area of operations (Section 3.01 (b), draft Loan Agreement).
40.      The project includes the following major components:
(a)  a sewerage collection system consisting of laterals and main sewers
(about 67 km), and service connections;
(b)  a main interceptor consisting of about 20 km of sewer pipe and five
sewage lift stations;
(c)  a main sewage pumping station and about 9 km of force main;
(d)  an extended aeration sewage treatment plant sized for the first stage
sewage flows but designed for modular extension for the second stage,
and an ocean outfall into Episkopi Bay;
(e)  a new storm drainage system and various improvements of some sections
of the existing system;
(f)  operation and maintenance equipment for the sewerage and drainage
systems;
(g)  consultant assistance for construction supervision; and
(h)  training of staff of SBLA.
Project Costs and Financing
41.      The total cost of- the project, exclusive of taxes and duties from
which goods and services destinied for public projects are exempt, is estimated
at about $37.3 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at $3.5 million
and price contingencies al: $4.0 million. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at $16.8 million equivalent or about 45 percent of the total cost.
The cost estimates for the sewerage system have been based on final designs.
t           The cost estimate of the drainage component has been based on the preliminary
design. Cost of pipe materials and major electromechanical equipment have
been based on representative quotations furnished by well-known suppliers.
Unit prices for civil works' construction were based on data from major local
construction companies. Cost estimates have been based on early 1984 price
levels. Physical contingencies for the sewerage system were estimated at 10
percent for equipment and materials and 15 percent for civil works; for the
drainage component, a 10 percent factor was used for both civil works and
materials. Foreign price contingencies have been estimated at 7-1/2 percent
for 1984, 7 percent for 1985, and 6 percent for 1986 and thereafter. A local
price contingency of 6 percent was assumed for 1984 and thereafter. The cost



-- 12 -
estimate for project construction supervision would cover about 66 man-months
of expatriate consultant services based on an average cost per manmonth of
$8,180 including fees, overhead, international travel and subsistence; and
about 230 man-months of local consultant services based on an average cost per
manmonth of $3,000 including fees, overhead and local travel.
42.      The proposed Bank loan of $16.8 million equivalent will finance 100
percent of foreign exchange costs or about 45 percent of total project costs.
The Government of Cyprus has secured firm conmuitments from the Resettlement
Fund of the Council of Europe to finance a portion of local cost (about $7.8
million). The remaining local cost requireaents amounting to about $12.7
million will be financed by a Government loan to the Sewerage Board of
Limassol-Amathus (SBIA) of about $9.8 million equivalent and internally
generated funds (about $2.9 million).
Project Organization and Implemeitation
43.      The SBLA, which was established in September 1980, will be the
Borrower and will be responsible for project implementation and for the
operation and maintenance of the sewerage and drainage system. The Bank loan
will be guaranteed by the Republ,ic of (Cyprus. In accordance with the Sewerage
and Drainage Law of 1971, SBLA is a financially autonomous corporate entity
governed by a Board whose members are nominated by the Council of Ministers.
Approval of the Board's annual investment programs and its proposed schedule
of rates, charges and fees is likewise the responsibility of the Council of
Ministers. Project preparation work has been carried out by the Limassol
municipality's staff and a number of major project components are now in
advanced stages of engineering design.  Final engineering designs of the
sewerage laterals and mains, the main interceptor and lift stations, and the
drainage works are nearly complete such that tendering for these major project
components would likely take place beginning the last quarter of 1984.
44.      The SBLA, nevertheless, recognizes that the existing working
arrangements would be insufficient to manage the rapidly developing project
requirements. Thus, in May 1983, it initiated action to solicit candidates
for a full-time staff to carry onl the work of project implementation. The
SBLA Board proposes to initially appoirLt five core operating staff, including
an engineer and a chief accountarLt, and has approached the Ministry of Finance
for budgetary approval for these positions. The engineer would be responsible
for physical project development, and t:he chief accountant would develop
arrangements for the billing and collection, and other required office and
administrative procedures.  During negotiatiDns assurances were obtained that
the engineer and accountant will be appointed not later than August 31, 1984
(Section 3.03, draft Loan Agreement). Aside from the core staff, the SBLA
will also appoint technical staff as indicated in para. 46.
45.      Consultant Services.  SELA staLff will be assisted by an engineering
consulting firm for (i) tender evaluation; (ii) review of contractor drawinrgs
and verification of equipment and material qualities for approval by SBLA; and
(iii) construction supervision of civil works, equipment and materials supply,
installation, training, testing and conmissioning.  During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that an engineering consultant firm satisfactory to



- 13 -
the Bank will be employed by SBLA and selected in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (Section 3.02,
draft Loan Agreement). In this connection, SBLA indicated during negotiations
that it intends to employ services of the consultants that undertook the
feasibility study for the project for the purposes indicated above. It was
agreed that while the qualifications and experience of those consultants are
satisfactory to the Bank, their terms and conditions of employment should be
submitted to the Bank for comment before a contract is finalized.
46.      Training.  The technical staff of SBLA would receive on-the-job
training from the consultants during project implementation. SBLA has
likewise agreed that the treatment plant superintendent/foreman would be hired
in sufficient time to provide him with 3-6 months practical training abroad in
management and process operation of a similar treatment plant, and would also
be given three months' training in Limassol by the treatment plant equipment
suppliers. In addition, the chemist would be provided with three months
training abroad in system technology, sampling and laboratory testing. Other
technical staff would be trained locally by equipment suppliers and through
arrangements with the Nicosia Sewerage Board. The proposed Bank Loan would
cover the full foreign cost of training.
47.      Land Acquisition.  Land for pumping stations and sewage treatment
plant and rights-of-way for pipelines are in the process of being secured and
their final acquisition is expected in 1984. A pumping station, force main,
treatment plant site and ocean outfall all lie within the British Sovereign
Base Area. Their construction, therefore, requires Sovereign Base Area
Authorities' (SBA) agreement which the Government has taken steps to secure.
The Government presented at negotiations satisfactory evidence that the SBA
has agreed in principle to lease a site to SBLA for the construction and
subsequent operation of the project components within its territory. A
special condition of effectiveness of the loan is finalization of the
agreement setting out these arr-angements. Situations involving compensation
to villagers would arise only in connection with rights-of-way for pipelines.
For the main site required for the project, i.e. the treatment plant, which is
located on Crown (British) land, no ownership rights are involved that require
compensation. Right-of-way cases are covered under the relevant existing law
of Cyprus (Law 25/83), which provides fair and adequate compensation. This
law was amended in 1983 to require payment of compensation within specific
time limits. The Government has had a long and favorable history in
implementation of this law and previous Bank-assisted projects that involved
compensation, such as Nicosia Sewerage and Second Highways Projects,
experienced no problems with respect to compensation.
48.      Accounting, Billing and Collection.  The Sewerage and Drainage Law of
Cyprus specifies the content of an annual budget that is to be submitted to
the Minister of Interior for review before forwarding to the Council of
Ministers for approval. SBLA will use a chart of accounts that is appropriate
to the development of public utility financial statements, will maintain
separate accounts for sewerage and drainage direct charges, and will use an
accrual accounting system., SBLA will develop its billing arrangements by
adapting the forms and systems of billing that are in use in Nicosia and which
are acceptable in content and frequency. SBLA also plans to contract with a
local bank for issuance and collection of the bills through the computer



- 14 -
facilities owned by local banks, an approach which has worked well in
Nicosia.  The Sewerage and DrainaLge Law makes provision for Sewerage Boards to
order collection of overdue bills by the Department of Inland Revenue, and to
charge a late-payment fine.
49.      Auditing and Monitoring.  Annual aufdits of the accounts of the SBLA
are required by the Sewerage and Drainage Law and are to be carried out by the
Auditor General of the Republic. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that beginning with fiscal 1984, SBLA's financial statements would be audited
by the Auditor General of the Republic or by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank, and a copy of the statements and the audit report would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(Section 5.02, draft Loan Agreement).  Agreement was reached at negotiations
on a project monitoring and reporting system, including therein financial
performance indicators (Section 3.05 (b), draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
50.      The sewerage works contracts will be procured in packages containing
the furnishing and installation of equipment and materials in the same
contract with the corresponding civil works. However, tender documents will
require provision of materials and equipment separate from prices for civil
works. During construction, contractors will be asked for separate materials
and equipment invoices to permit 100 percent reimbursement of imported items.
These contracts will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Those portions of
the drainage works within the li;mits of sewerage laterals and mains will be
included in those contracts. The remaining drainage works outside the
sewerage works area, which do not exceed US$350,000 for equipment and
US$1,000,000 for civil works, will be procured through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures which are satisfactory. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that procurement wiLl be in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The proposed Bank loan of $16.8 million would
be disbursed against normal documentation for the following (Schedule 1, draft
Loan Agreement):
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 35 percent of local
expenditures for supply and installation of materials and equipment
for the sewerage and drainage systems;
(b) 25 percent of civil works for the sewerage and drainage systems;
(c)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for construction supervision; and
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training.
51.      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that
within six months following the closing date of the loan it will prepare and
submit to the Bank a project completion report (Section 3.05 (e), draft Loan
Agreement).
Rates and Charges
52.      During discussions with officials of the SBLA and the Ministry of
Finance, it was agreed in principle that SBLd revenues would comply with the



- 1 5 -
Sewerage and Drainage Act of 1971 which sets rules for financial viability,
i.e., that revenues should cover all costs of operation, maintenance and
administration, full debt service or depreciation (whichever is higher),
provide adequate working capital, and, in addition, provide a part of the
investment cost. Thus, the various rates and charges were developed in order
to meet that goal. The rates and charges were assumed to fall into the
following four general categories:
(a)  a rate applicable to the assessed property values for those
properties to be covered by the project as well as its expansion to
1994 when the full first stage of the project is completed. This
rate is divided into two parts: the first part is applicable to
properties to be connected to the system in the first stage; and the
second is a lower rate for properties to be connected during the
second stage of project expansion (1995-2010);
(b) a "user charge" assessed as a surcharge to the water bills for those
properties that are actually connected to the sewerage system;
(c)  connection fees which have been designed to bear heaviest on the
tourist properties and hotels, where both land area and built-up area
charges are assessed, and flat fees for other properties; and
(d) a drainage charge assessed upon the property values within the
municipal limits of Limassol only.
53.      Application of these rates was assumed to begin concurrent with
initiation of project corLstructioni forecast for 1985. Although there is a
possibility that some of the treated effluent could be sold for citrus crop
irrigation during 1989 through 1991, and thereafter to be used in the second
phase of the Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCP),
such potential revenues were not included in the financial forecasts as a
conservative measure. The above-mentioned rates and charges, which are
appropriate to this type of project, are provided for under the Sewerage and
Drainage Act of 1971 and are in use in Nicosia, the only other town in the
Republic of Cyprus where such a central system of sewage collection and
treatment exists. Drainage is currently funded from municipal budgets. The
proposed rates and charges were found to be affordable to the lowest income
earners in the area.
Future Financial Performance
54.      In order for SBLA to meet the financial targets of this proposed
project, there are two importeant considerations.  The first is that SBLA must
begin its customer billing operations during the first half of 1985 (rates are
to be billed semi-annually) at the levels agreed upon. Assurances to that
effect, and the rates, were obtained during negotiations (Section 5.04, draft
Loan Agreement). Secondly, the installation of sewer mains and laterals must
be staged so that the major water consumers are connected during 1987 and
1988.



- 16 --
55.      The proposed financing plan relies heavily on borrowed funds and thus
implies a substantial debt burden for the newly-created SBLA. However, it is
projected that a fairly sizeable build-up in cash in 1994 would be available
for internal contributions to the expansion of the system envisaged to begin
in 1995.  Nevertheless, agreement was reached at negotiations that SBLA will
not, during the project implementation period, contract any medium- or
long-term debt (other than for carrying out. the project) without the Bank's
prior agreement (Section 5.06, draft Loan Agr-eement). These assurances,
together with the financial covenant proposed below, should ensure that SBLA
would have sufficient funds to meet its mirimum annual investment contribution.
56.      During negotiations agreement was reached with SBLA that beginning in
FY85, it will implement rates and other charges to provide adequate funds to
cover: (a) all expenses of operations, maintenance, administration and other
taxes and contributions required by law, but excluding depreciation; (b) all
interest and other charges on debt as well as; principal repayments; (c) all
increases required to maintain adequate levels of working capital; and (d) 15
percent of each year's annual investment (Section 5.04 (a), draft Loan
Agreement). While this covenant simp:Ly requires SBLA to adhere to existing
legislation, it will allow the B3ank to monitor financial discipline against
specific standards. During negotiations agreement was reached that SBLA will,
three months before the beginning of each fiscal year, provide the Bank with a
copy of its proposed budget for such fiscal year and financial projections for
the following two years as well as SBLA proposed rates and charges for Bank
review and comments (Section 5.04 (c), draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
57.      Benefits from the project are in four principal areas.  The project
will reduce the health hazards to the residential and tourist populations by
eliminating the overflow from the individual septic tanks, and the direct
discharges of some industries into the harbor area. These benefits cannot be
quantified.  The project will also protect the tourist industry which provides
more than 20 percent of Cyprus' foreign exchange, as well as the local
employment in tourist related industries, which accounts for about 20 percent
of employment in the Greater Limaassol area. Finally, the project will reduce,
if not eliminate, the lost-productivil:y resulting from the flooding of the
lower town during the intense rainfalls that occur during the winter season..
While it is not possible to get direct data from industry and commercial
sources as to the value of lost production, it is estimated that about two
days equivalent of lost production occurs each year, representing
approximately $2.8 million equivalent.. A further potential benefit to the
project would be the re-use of the treated effluent for agricultural
irrigation.
58.      Environmentally, the project is sound.  The treatment plant is
located about 2 km. from the Akrotiri Salt Lake on barren ground and is a
substantial. distance away from an environmentally sensitive marsh area of
international importance as staging points for large flocks of birds migrating
between Europe and Africa as well as wintering ground for thousands of water
birds. The ocean outfall is in an area which is dangerous for swimming, and
in which construction of any facility is prohibited. The treated effluent
would only be injected into Episkopi Bay during 1988-1992, after which the



- 17 -
effluent is to be used in conjunction with the SCP. Moreover, drainage
improvements such as the canalization of Zakaki creek, will re-establish the
historical stormwater flcws into the Akrotori Salt Lake, thus ensuring the
ecological balance of the lake. Thus, the project is environmentally sound.
59.      There are no major risks associated with the project.  As in all
civil works contracts, the principal risks are associated with delays in
execution which could escalatei the project costs. However, SBLA is expected
to minimize this risk through the use of reputable contractors and the use of
an experienced consultant during the construction period. Construction
restrictions in the commercial area and tourist areas are well known, and
costs associated with them will be minimized by including these restrictions
in the bidding documents.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Sewerage Board of
Limassol-Amathus and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Republic of Cyprus and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are given in Section III of Annex III. Completion of satisfactory
arrangements for the leasing of land and rights in respect of land for
purposes of construction and subsequent operation by SBLA of the sewerage
facilities and related structures under the project is a special condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Section 7.01, draft Loan Agreement).
61.      I am satisfied t:hat the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that: the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
r            Attachments
April 16, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-18 -                                     ANNEX I
(Page 1 of 5)
T A B L E  3A
CYPRUS                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) [a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMIATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME               INDUSTRIAL
1960'6      1970'   ESTIMATE-               EUROPE              MARKET ECONUMIES
AREA (ThOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                   9.3          9.3          9.3
AGRICULTURAL                            5.5          5.3          5.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         ..          ..       3740.0              2453.6                    11112.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        795.0       1'135.G      2044.0              1580.8                     7500.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       573.0        604.0        623.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          35.6         40.8         46.9                47.8                       78.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  0.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    0.9
YEAR STATIONARY PUP. REACHED                                  2085
POPULAIION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          61.9         65.3         67.0                82.0                      139.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              104.2        115.0        118.1               157.2                      514.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (1)
0-14 YRS                            36.7         31.0         25.8                31.9                      22.4
15-64 YRS                            57.4         59.0         64.2                60.9                      66.0
65 AND ABOVE                          5.9         10.0         10.1                 7.2                       11.6
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 1.5          0.5/c        0.3/c               i.6                        0.6
URBAN                                 3.3          1.9          1.6                 3.4                        1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           25.8         19.7         19.4                25.0                       13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIOUS)           10.5          9.8          9.0                 9.1                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.8          1.3          1.1                 1.7                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          64.0         91.0       103.0                108.4                     112.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        102.0        122.u        128.0               129.6                     134.4
PROTEINS (GRAM1S PER DAY)            74.0         88.0        96.0                 92.3                      99.0,
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           30.0         42.0         51.0/d              34.6                      61.4
CHILD (AGLS 1-4) DEATH RATE             1.7          1.7          0.9                1U.4                       0.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          68.7         70.9         72.5                67.2                       74.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          29.9         29.4         19.5                71.4                       10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%PO?)
TOTAL                                26.2         95.0         95.0/e
URBAN                                67.5        100.0         94.0/e..
RURAL                                 7.1         92.0         96.0/e
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(U OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         95.0        95.0/e
URBAN                                  ..        100.0        94.6/e.
RURAL                                  ..         92.0         95.07.
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1470.0       1230.0       1110.0              1094.8                     553.6
POP. PFR NURSING PERSON              1180.01f      580.0        360.0               762.5                      182.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               220.0        180.0        190.U/d             334.0                      119.D
URBAN                               230.0/f      240.0        260.L7d             216.0                     143.2
RURAL                              3320.0/f    3110.0       4780.0/d                 ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         16.2         16.7/e              20,0                       17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.0           ..
URBAN                                 4.0           ..
RURAL                                 3.9           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.5           ..
URBAN                                 1.3          L.0L/&
RURAL                                 1.6           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                43.1           ..
URBAN                                90.4           ..
RURAL                                21.5



-19-                                        ANNEX I
(Page 2 of 5)
TA BL E  3A
CYPRUS       _           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) 7a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          /b  RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME              INDUSTRIAL
1960-        1970- ESTIHAT8lb               EUROPE               MARKET ECONCHIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    102.0         88.0/h       84.0/h             102.2                      101.5
MALE                    103.0         87.0oh       83.0/h             107.2                      103.3
FEMALE                  100.0         88.071;      85.o7h              97.9                      103.3
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     47.0         54.0/h       66.0/h              56.5                      89.2
MALE                     55.0         57.0/h       66.6Wh              63.4                       84.5
FE4ALE                   39.0         52.07W       66.07W              48.9                       86.0
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             3.5         10.5/h       12.2/h              22.4                       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              34.0         30.0/h      22.0/h               24.7                       20.2
SECONDARY                            24.0         21.07W       16.07h              22.1                       14.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE Cl)                75.9         85.0         89.0                69.7                       98.9
CONSUPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            4,'.6        91.9        126.3/i              52.9                      356.5
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          148.3        276.5        504.8               165.5                     1085.4
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               2.8         81.1        241.9               124.2                      449.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              123.9        112.6        108.6                96.3                      331.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         8.4         10.1           ..                 2.9                        3.5
LABOR FOPCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             237.0        254.0        282.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     33.3         33.6        35.0                 34.5                      36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                42.0         38.6         28.6                40.7                        6.2
INDLSTRY (PERCENT)                   27.1         27.7        26.7                 23.4                      37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.4         42.0         45.2                42.0                       45.5
MALE                                 56.1         56.4         58.9                55.2                       59.0
FEMALE                               27.2         27.9        31.6                 29.1                       32.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.0          0.8                 0.9                        0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         12.1/          .
HIGREST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         39.173         .                   ..                       43.1
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          7.97j         ..                  ..                        5.5
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         19.67          ..                  ..                       16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..       376.7/d
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                         746. 7/d 7.d
RURAL                                  *-            -        512.77              409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAJ                                  ..           ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
p                                                                  N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is nor uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Eatirate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962;
/g 1972; /h Excluding Turkish schools; /i 1978; /5 1966, urban only.
May 1983



-20 -
ANNEX I
DE11T OPS0  SOCIAL  Innl                                                          (Page    3 of    5)
haaeso  mthougnhedao" te   eofIu .sour..es g--ae1y JodgednneI  ~,L  II.b -etohroneadaletaoisatni dtnatooasytot befteaanar
n apltati    en.tseA  tit  laeI   fAt-rotnrdI d,eS mtions and I'lept  -ae  by olaaroo.o-    nuln Ingt    aa    u aaae   tnteea   sflt
ineieuaorendsonta.-ttsriaeetclneaoodaftrtresirTcceoa-rct_o
Tlreerferrner   -r-acelTesaeoery g-"innftte    bJ h-ootprdL   ond(e2)of iraelortohneorgepft
eabenicontr  (aooen  otSIg  tooa"  i  t1onars geopaeo Minnie  IhoeirnAoc   ntd.-nO    snOs, nro    acrgrsoooloa
affffflsl    Inito  ef eano gopadatatieeneage   er  pop-daon   e i ma  araene Inaea    I    -.c    1 Scur  an  snre o.i am    u bttyof ae tnneiesdo 
greo   ha  daa in  tht idloaor    Sies atn  oorafa  O cntrea  c  ngtnrlrd  oot  deend   n te  nel uoliy  o  can  en...o..nfor, cutio  sut b
eaartieednarnlaaiegaoeeafao  of oeingdin..acnnte  .Mnaaaeaaaol    eeuttnarntostoforl,rIrAafrdagaenrty
reference g        teonp_-a.                                                                                                                                    ..  .  .IA
19 70 adl9i-,a                                                                                       onoir ciopta   e -                      iioad byt.-hi,  faosdtarl
i   -et dfi  and8 98 d aa.nyulr.e  e   incrtn   etbisna_                                                                                              rodigpicpll   aeda
dessyarg   lea   n  ifd0           ptoee dsc-l  cayepr. nls                                         uit6-.nce   cacs   d. cntafca-e -Lena aeeP-                    i,dAodaAo  a
an  gonanalrietcceyli   elarcn   f  na  ouicceepe  n0li                    yn    nuin-o            rugsnb-oia         i,i cand  Puar -tipiep    fp, rese
1960, ISle, aed ISfigaas.                                                  uret. hna.t.c.Inclate-  -e-a prior dflienc    oslel , and rura
GNP PER CAP:TA (US$) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ostrtt  loa   otclirRuiadscia   n   aettiarr
ylaitniyiatt icat by    ttbfit                                                                           esuriIed   hala   e           ell    .0udrael
Toa   optnon   fd-anlduanda    h   flinK.th-90,ddi--htsrcoe   e-halu  Md-Icd   cttcof,eidie h                                                                    o    irhee
dare.                                                           It-ru hoapincin  Olitdrd  ny ete otinierti teds.         '7' I`
ilcoat fayalanion (aeresne ni toteil - elatia nf urhun no rood p....adin.
iifRferCera. defjIn,ln    fcee   ra   ay.fo    npaaiayo  de                                         00
aPnERneis   90,99   n   9A01Toats.                                                          deaon m1-uhi    pceaIrenead    aoai, aise,L eon  ael
yoyalsnoo  fenleaioes                                                       h  antll  ntnitnnf  a   oop o   adiac             -idcuaao ia-     iignaer
Piplsaot  t  reclyh  -  aranipopls io  poien- nnaacehosd  n ISf0anoneesaii  -aa.      earde  o  logacsa  ocsay,aahejeeude.i
tatal  orlAle    rsradse   r   hi   oIaad   o   eciiytaiostl    aeoiaPa oeaa
60a17ae   ada 98 h  djeian   eaeesdeora  o   aa   nseiei   ieaaoa-ndeypeojeao-os    eo,aderlaeaens
F   eesatsoiieaaenreicioaPUatrooeeprdyadiaroaLArannIcelNeiieeueetAdda
apamANeslnD           a   eself   eeenpaai  tne    15detna rVipeetoSTA                                                        soiilnaene lde  A-penetereasaa
yer.lb   aettss  o   arl  arrt    liie   erale_i.ni   la    ua
strai-t urf n,salos iot duet.  This. -y chafed on  uta    at lA              aetMae   Oeie-San
pepiiaeioouleraesaaiaarrd in hhd bais af fte yrnecay  char ice-                       neac  cto-arcyaaln                   osi ylo ae    hiidr   agedl 6-l
year aesa ionaep esralaitan is easohed - fbi eaa~~~r aneny -da tinnary                                        Al.nneyp .l erbso    chl    ofca   oalae
roeotlst no-ale ni   ha  cuehd                                                                    Aeodo  ahn-ttl  naldb-                 and  tse-b-roria   bae.arad
Poaaao d_esa                                                                                       edcId---o ss    ee   fc   er   dapeedpisy  neaetr
Per so. ke. - Mid-case dAyiaion  pa   1usiloee       denea   of                                 ccatie   icneal  doodion    ort nrdantg   rdadt                          o
eoel  ree  lte, 97, sd  960dua.pdpisaaui.    t l  o 1  funiofa e;  oees on ena  aarenac
Persc.~.ugeeiie~ruSlng-Cunpttaaaatoefnruri:1tarullogfgt-etd,Maecio-a-
onl;  Sb,   97snlSidta                                                               toe.oaltrllae   lar_n  o  aon_arih...ool  nadaiita
case yepalarion  foe iSoy-bi, IShi- i,an  _ISP      I    d                                                    t -S...I.                                             -apndnl sra
Iodsio  eatSeslaenil-ibr      onlgreicin_fone40  tIfeyy   ae  e-etl-lea_aoa    elea   edan   cd a
peosaos  a  15-b,90-d- n  17-iI-                                                                  eeehgao  nni  oitpp lcin   geL$Iet
Ceae Sra  Aaa  perehuss .l- datnue   "Ila hieIa Ie   hu do   td
feetilty  alin; urully  iia~yed   a_aaga  andogin. 19,  199   n                              ouostognclpii   eoeneh    fp lAIun;~ ea-da an-I
p.p.aSi .     II itcehuedL11-1- coeieal in~                                                                                          h,nrle  adj In. yr I a   rgoreoru   e
pfbca-doel  el-atud,  eec   is   fntoa   saA               ltiaeneea   ihaiae   icensing.                                            A 1                 A.  I
P.r rei.  ane   oan   o   eu.nop  e                                                                                  innpo  tr-un   r        - po f a-ior -hdoci.aytheib
19di01100  n      .t...  .o.  I1t9celinoes i80e   e    drna -aerinlo
Iasd on nea0t o19al a-eaf  ec9 dudArrneugna;19io                  9dd19
dc ed.                                                                               idifo P900~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I - 111R    fi-A      d  ...   
eaare,an  ehege  1n95ton60     a   apae   anLd rnlfe, 19eed0o,97cos par.inlr   ii    7   n   9    ae
taei tesuad -i foo   pece ilcl -m  -ose  on.t dl         .1baln di    e-Ad                         l    ~nn        easihedm    spretg   dt ilm    oe
eoiiyadiaeGcnieigs-iusaaleeenoe   odAeln,fsig   speeeg    ftta   ao   oe   SO   17   adii   aa
anp hasitId  lerl  oSh -t,11bn 90dn-seltelty    aa   o   a   tpeeng                                                                                         d ttllbefre   S
pos    eolt6, ofal97b  10 gra-s  stold. heaaad-ei.ms                                           91   10   nd10   ec    in   r                    nrG    yritirtia   ease
aae-edan -aea An-no _e of  snesad.nhA,  Aroe-mraill  gnats                                 relnigatsoteooaonrrplaitataogiet,                                         d 
odaaisaicenaeteaaansasauga  faetOeaoeld.yattoatchyei0l~~~~~~~~~~~~"ifhc             fe -aioanaao-efno-enatianal-oAllntrn.
Thid  bld  aodlaren  9_urtl if  h   end  :tA-i d,art                                          oncnla.dtyltn-Sn-ofaplne   ne   iadb                                        era
Pareoapta  rntoc  cypl  fno ccas  al  mlt-Poitn  apal  offod                           abanonileorMaor
nalolieti                                                                                  peceofy 1000-10- 00-t9 a  f-iy  Ph..
Lietpe-      oncRio  lrri-ungeohrfyas fifraatn                                                      bs-ltan          lai-ai,cr  oiRyapuieseare    fporyini,t
aae_ uplllridstea-eanfnaaeifoaeraIdIOcs1eaetlaii                                                                          -aa1fnoslcellij-cria    -rbref-nl
aeantsgatdI       taaa-    any-     ro   p..otd     .o...ss  solg,it                              Oeleifo   yreyacstl likt-aido   nrueprrpt
area..  tapilI a  fnu- tais oc  asdysi t     cte  nod  -ne  aha  100  aran                       -lanI anlad -    ett ettfoe tighe   nea   fln    nubnaes
eota_t -o-e-al --yoallyion  nfI -epoltiso  -961t6l, a9ar, -an                   98
sayirud thcole  ioPn lpta     a  r                                                                          -torautanautndt   - ul          need i  sa  Oo,l-it Ooito
niseaeaan VA          aratryaeeheepeecneen    fi                                                                                      onaocceiudeloltipes
prieter~ andniala   is...la iIi.                                                                                                                  fey.   ...98  ...



- 21 -
ANNEX I
(Page 4 of 5)
CYPRUS - ECONOMIC INDICATORSI/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                                                    ANNUWAL RATE OF GROWTH (X Constant Prices)
US$ Million      Percent                                        1977-79               1980-82
GNP at Market Prices                        2,171.8         100.0                                          10.1                   3.9
Gross Domestic Investment                     701.0          32.3                                          25.5                  -1.1
Gross National Savings                        525.6          24.2                                          19.5                  -1.0
Current Account Balance                      -176.1          -8.1                                         46.1                 -21.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                       1,106.7          51.0                                          14.4                  11.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                       1,390.8          64.0                                         17.9                    7.1
OUTPUT, LABOR AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added                  Labor Force                           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million   Percenit        Thousand    Percent                     us$         Percent
Agriculture                                     195.9         9.9             44.8        19.4                    4,373         511
Industry                                        655.6        33.3             68.5        29.7                    9,571      1,119
Services                                      1,119.4        56.3             85.2        37.0                   13,138      1,536
Unallocated 2/                                   -            -               32.0        13.0                     -              -
Total/Average                               1,970.9       100.0            230.5       100.0                    8,551      1,000
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
CE Million       Percent of GDP                  CE Million        Percent of GDP
1982           1982   1980-82                    1982            1982   1980-82
Current Receipts                       232.2            23.1    22.3                     167.1           16.6      12.7
Current Expenditure                    249.8            24.8    23.9                     204.9           20.4      19.2
Current Surplus                        -17.6            -1.7    -1.6                     -37.8           -3.8      -6.5
Capital Expenditures                    43.1             4.3      5.0                     26.6            2.6       2.7
External Assistance (net)               34.9             3.5      2.7                     23.7             2.3       2.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1978       1979       1980       1981       1982 3/       1983 3/
(Million Cyprus Pounds Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                    363.3     433.5       501.1      601.3      604.9         702.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector             31.0       49.6        76.2     100.6       97.1           92.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector           292.9      356.7      404.7      462.4      485.2          562.6
Money and Quasi Money as X of GDP         71.1       69.3       66.6       69.0       60.1          --
General Price Index (1973 = 100)           1.570      1.765      2.009      2.273      2.508        --
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                       11.3       12.4       13.8       13.1       10.3          --
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)    49.6          60.0        53.6      32.0       -3.5           -3.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector            17.9       21.9        13.5      14.3         4.9          16.0
1/ Refer to the area under Government's control only.
2/  Includes unemployment, workers employed in British bases, foreign organizations and in other countries.
r 3/  End March except for lines 4, 5, and 6.
EM2D
February 1984



- 22 -
ANNEX I
(Page 5 of 5)
CYPRUS - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-82)
1978       1980       1982                                                             US$ Million      Percent
(Million us$)
Exports of Goods (NFS)           571.1      954.6    1,028.4                                     Clothing                    82.6            18.4
Imports of Goods (NFS)          831.4   1,319.3    1,298.0                                      Footwear                     36.5             8.1
Resource Gap (Deficit = -)   -260.3    -364.7          -269.6                                    Potatoes                    42.7             9.5
Citrus                      26.7             6.0
Interest Payments (net)           -4.3       -3.4       -15.1                                   Portland Cement              28.7             6.4
Workers' Remittances              44.5       58.1        55.4                                    Paper Products               21.3            4.7
Other Factor Payments (net)        0.3        9.6        17.9                                    Cigarettes                   20.7            4.6
Net Transfers                     22.5       32.5        35.3                                    All other commodities    189.4              42.2
Balance on Current Account   -197.3    -267.9          -176.1                                      Total                    448.6           100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         57.1       85.0        80.4                                   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Net MLT Borrowing                 65.7      108.7       146.2
Disbursements                   78.1      138.9       202.7                                   Public Debt, including guaranteed           611.9
Amortization                    12.4       30.2        56.5                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  --
Sub-Total                   -74.5      -74.2        50.5                                      Total Outstanding and Disbursed          611.9
Capital Grants                    45.0       40.8        35.9
Other Capital (net)               21.4       25.1         9.0                                    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982
Other Items n.i.e.                 7.0       32.7        18.3
Increase in Reserves (+)          -1.1      +24.3     +113.7                                    Public Debt, including guaranteed             9.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   _
Fuels and Related Materials                                                                        Total                                      9.7
Imports                        83.0      222.6       246.3
Of Which Petroleum            83.0     222.6        246.3                                   IBRD/IDA LENDING (END 1982) (Million US$)
Exports                          -          -            -
Of Which Petroleum            -           -            -                                                                   IBRD      IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                     Outstanding and Disbursed    68.1         -
Undisbursed                     56.9      -
Average 1980-82                       June 1983                                             Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                 125.0      -
US$1.00   CEO.41                   US$1.00   CEO.52
C£l.00 = US$2.44                   CE1.00 = US$1.91
EM2D
February 1984



- 23 -
ANNEX II
(Page 1 of 2)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS!'
(As of March 31, 1984)
US$ Million--------
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
Number   Year    Borrower       Purpose                  Bank         Undisbursed
Twelve loans fully disbursed                             80.4               -
1344     1976    Republic of  Highway II
Cyprus                                10.0                1.7
1483     1977    Republic of  Rural
Cyprus        Development             10.0                 .6
1540     1978    Cyprus Ports Ports II
Authority                              8.5                 .9
1658     1979    Republic of  Water Resources
Cyprus        Development             11.0                8.6
1873     1980    Electricity  Power V
Authority of
Cyprus                                16.0                4.1
1988     1981    Republic of  Fruit and Vegetable
Cyprus        Export                  14.0               13.0
2128     1982    Republic of  Highways III               12.2              11.9
Cyprus
2279      1983    Republic of  Khrysokhou Irrigation
Cyprus                                16.0               16.0
2286      1983    Republic of  Energy Planning and
Cyprus        Conservation             3.6                3.6
2287      1983    Electricity  Energy Planning and
Authority of Conservation
Cyprus                                 6.6                6.6
2386 2/  1984    Republic of  Southern Conveyor
Cyprus        P'roject for Water
Resources Develop-
ment                  27.0              27.0
Total                                         215.3              94.0
of which has been repaid                    46.3
Total now outstanding                         169.0
Amount sold                      2.3
of which has been repaid    2.3
Total now held by Bank                        169.0
Total undisbursed                                                94.0
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/  Approved March 6, 1984; Loan not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
(Page 2 of 2)
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1984)
--Amount in US$ Million--
Year            Obligor            Type of Business       Loan      Equity      Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company          Cement              2.3        0.5         2.8
1977    Cyprus Pipes Industry          Construct:ion
material           0.5        0.2         0.7
1983    Dome Hotel                     Tourism             1.8        0.3         2.1
1983    Cyprus Investment and          Money and
Securities Corporation       Capital Markets    -          0.2         0.2
Total gross commitments                           4.6        1.2         5.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            3.2        0.4         3.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                 1.4        0.8         2.2
Total undisbursed                                 0.3        0.1         0.4



- 25 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken by country to prepare project:  Five years
Agency which prepared project              : Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus
with assistance of consultants
Project first presented to Bank            : September 1982
First Bank mission to review project    : August 1983
Departure of appraisal mission             : October 1983
Completion of Negotiations                 : March 1984
Planned date of effectiveness              : August 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Condition of Effectiveness:
Government would have made satisfactory arrangements for the leasing
of land and rights in respect of land for purposes of construction and
subsequent operation by SBLA of the sewerage facilities and related structures
under the project (para. 47).
2. Measures to be taken by SBLA include:
(a) SBLA would appoint an engineer and a chief accountant not later than
August 31, 1984 (para. 44).
(b)  SBLA will implement rates and charges to provide adequate funds to
cover all costs of operation (excluding depreciation), debt service,
and increases to working capital and 15 percent of each year's
investment program (para. 56).






IBRD 17544
POLEMIDHi-A ~,                                                                                                                                     DECEMBER 1983
DAM~~~~~~~     I/                                D~~~~~~~ERMASOYIA                                CYPRUS
EPISKOPI ~~                  ~            ~                                                                              >.                  SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
0  -                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Sewerage
N  (O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~AYIOS ATHANASIOS
4,~~~. 'C0            -           \M~~~~ESAY)TONIA/   .  .      YRAOI
-~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  I     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                              /~~PIER~NT~
NG WHABO
N~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ii                     /a
AKROTIRI  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~-
Snoege Yr forest ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     Syd A        B-dr
17-                    P~~~~Opo"~~~ Fi,0 5toqe,Swe,AMTHU                                                       >-.\  A-5
ip, 'LI Vt    uit~~~~~~~~~~nat                     A,1OH~N
~~~~~~~~~~A 4' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~OE  TTO
t", ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~(MN    R F/eMi
D-p    Mai Ch eIIns
-  - --  -  Mains and Laterals ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~-  ~  :N5~
-----------   vri,B- Rsnrd                              MILL(U.K.)IlCDY  P RTI U                                                   /-A
O     I           2~~~~X      3                M
L:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DaranCarn



I



IBRD 17545
POLEMIDHIA 0                                                                                                                                                          DECEMBER 1983
DAM
YEREMASOY IA
DAMA                                              CYPRUS
LIMASSOL - AMATHUS
EPISKOPI                                                                                                                                                                             SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Proposed Drainage
AYIOS ATHANASIOS
MESAYITONIA                     YERMASOYIA
. 7 ii;  ir \1         ,; ZAy/AKI         >           =                ,>~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ AMATHU
RNI
0   |   S  so  \   LIMASSOL                                                                                         POWER STATION
NEW HARBOR                                                                                                                             CEMENT WORKS
AKROTIRI
- Pr.BO-d Drari-Be                                                              A4
Ak,.firi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Storm Dr.i-s
;  k   )   X   Akr,otId  !                              )(     Bridges
__/_____ M-rn Roads
f                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NataraI Woterways
a M  \   <  Drainage Ch~annels                 KILOMETERS0I                 2           3    4       5
KILOMETERSI          I                                I                       Y
1. \ i <'   \-----    MunicipalLi-it                            MILES Io
0                   ~      ~     ~~~~~~2  3
Sovereisagn OBSe BoondCry (UK.) }                                                                                        1 1  x         r r$  t   *i mW    1s ]
C YC P1 IAu
~ TTh~~O~ B~k  #5~OOO&mnr nr ~            AREA    Nrros
4   i  S                                                                                    IhO rsedes and s o_X1u6 Wh /r me Jnl-a/ usc o/ rs Wid : rd he blemata:g   OF MAPsIlzassol   }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4



I
A
t



