RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Publhc Use
Report No PA-147a
APPRAISAL OF
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LESOTHO
January 24, 1973
Agriculture Division
Projects Department
East Africa Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group It may not be pubhshed, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =  Rand (R) 0.79
R 1            =  US$1.26
R 1,000,000    =  US$1,260,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Tons = Metric Tons (mt)
Mixed Metric and British/US
1bag           =  200 lb            =  90.74 kg
1 kilogram (kg)                     =  2.204 pounds (lb)
1,000 kg       =  1 metric ton (mt)=  0.98 long ton
1 millimeter (mm)                   8  0.039 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                         -  1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                    =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 acre (ac)                         =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 hundredweight-  112 lb            =  51.02 kg
1 kg/ac        =  2.47 kg/ha        =  2.204 pounds/acre (lb/ac)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADS         - Agricultural Development Service, Nairobi
Association -  A Farmers' Association or Cooperative
CLL         -  Co-op Lesotho Ltd.
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
LDB         -  Lesotho National Development and Savings Bank
M           -  Million
UBLS        -  University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland
CROP/PROJECT YEAR
October/September
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF THE
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......................... i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ..  ............................         1
II.  BACKGROUND      ......................................  1
A. General   .              ......... .1
B.   Agriculture   ............. .................  2
C. Soil Conservation .... .......  ....... , ....  3
D. Sociology and Land Tenure       ................    3
E. Banking and Agricultural Credit .... ......    4
III.  PROJECT AREA .................... ... ...................    4
A.  General ................................      4
B. Production, Extension and Marketing ......     5
IV.  THE PROJECT ............. ..... ...         ....  ..  6
A.  General Description .....   .................  6
B. Detailed Features .     ..................... .  6
C. Cost Estimates .11
D.  Financing, Procurement and Disbursement ..   11
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    .       .13
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMERS' BENEFITS          17
A. Production and Yields    .17
B. Markets and Prices .    . ....................   18
C. Farmers' Benefits.                            18
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ...            19
A.  Economic Benefits and Coits                  19
B.  Rate of Return and Sensitivity .20
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........   21
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Lesotho in March, 1972,
comprising Messrs Nelson, Myllyluoma and Schul (IDA); Henderson (consultant
agriculturist) and Vilakazi (consultant sociologist); and on the findings of
a concurrent USAID soil conservation mission to Lesotho.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture in Lesotho and the Project Area
Tables 1-2  Monthly Annua  Rainfall Totals for 50 years
at Maseru and Roma
Tables 3-5 Rainfall Pattern in mm
Table 6      Livestock Population
Chart        Rainfall
Chart        Probability  %) of Annual and Wet Season
Monthly Rainlfall at Maseru
2.   Sociological Background
3.   Soil Conservation
4.   Banking and Agricultural Credit
Tables 1-2  Co-op Lesotho Limited                                            I
Acco,unts for Years ended March 31, 1968-71
5.   Agricul tural Techniques and Programs in the Project
6.   On-farm Costs (Regular Program)
7.   Cost of Extension Services
8.   Cost of Training
9.   Agricultural Research
10.   Cost of Research
11.   Marketing
Table 1      Total and Marketed Production
Table 2      Lesotho Livestock Statistics
Table 3      Estimated Storage Capacity at Full Development
Table 4      Proposed Marketing Facilities
Table 5      Imports and Exports (Lesotho/South Africa)
Table 6      South African Statistics
Table 7      Gross Prices per Grade
Table 8      Estimated Marketing Costs and Farmers' Prices
12.   Cost of Marketing Services
13.   Cost of Credit Services
14.   Road Development and Communications
Table        Road Construction and Maintenance
15.   Cost of Roads
16.   Cost of Soil Conservation



- 3 -
17.   Cost of Integrated Farming Program
18.   Cost of Administration
19.   Project Cost Summary
20.   Financial Contributions and IDA Disbursement
21.   Government Cash Flow
22.   FLnancing and Disbursement Schedule
Table I     IDA Credit Financing Schedule
Table 2     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
23.   Farm Budgets
_                      Table 1      Farm Budget for Wheat
Table 2     Farm Budget for Maize and Sorghum
Table 3     Farm Budget for Wheat in Year of Drought
Table 4     Tractor Operating Budget
Table 5     Budget for a Milk Cow
Table 6     Budget for Integrated Farming on 5 Acres Arable
plus 5 Acres Associated Permanent Grazing
24.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1     Estimated Production
Table 2     Details of Project Benefits
Table 3     Rate of Return Calculations
Table 4     Sensitivity of Economic Rate of Return
CHART
Organization Chart
MAP



C
C



LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appra`Les a project for provision of farm inputs -
mainly seed, fertilizer and cultivation services - to about 12,000 peasant
farmers on 60,000 acres of presently poorly cultivated land; the credit to
acquire these inputs; marketing facilities; better roads; and vital soLl
conservation. It would improve production of maize, sorghum, wheat and
beans.
S          ii.        Lesotho is a small, recently independent African country, largely
mountainous, and entirely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa, with
which its economic ties are naturally close. Many Basotho work in the
mines, fields and factories of South Africa and their remittances contribute
substantially to the Lesotho economy.
iii.      Government gives highest priority to agriculture, which provides
a livelihood for 85% of the people and accounts for 70% of GDP. Lesotho
farming is mainly for subsistence and only about one-third of farm produc-
tion, mostly of animal origin, is sold. Traditional land use and cultural
habits inhibit change. The immediate objective, therefore, is to control
erosion and improve crop production and rural living within the existing
social system, and thus move from subsistence to cash cropping for import
substitution and export.  A longer term objective is to transform land use
custom so that integrated farming, combining rotational cropping with improved
livestock production, can be introduced. Unless these fundamental changes
in land use are made and integrated farming is adopted, erosion control and
crop improvement would have little lasting value.
iv.       Production would be increased by timely provision of improved
inputs on credit, and technical agricultural guidance on their use.  Farmer
demand for inputs is expected to be keen; but acceptance of essential condi-
tions, especially proper cultivation and maintenance of soil conservation
works, may not occur so readily. Effective institutions are at present lacking.
A credit and marketing organization would need to be created for the project,
and staff would need to be trained for almost all project activitLi1es.  Initial
production increase is therefore likely to be slow.
v.        Rainfall, averaging about 600-700 mm in the project area, is un-
certain, varies greatly from year to year and nearly all occurs in October-
March, with a January peak. Cultivation timing is therefore most important.
For this reason, and because of migration of able-bodied males, ox and
tractor power are used extensively and the project includes supply and more
efficient use of these.
vi.       Farmers in the project area grow mainly subsistence crops, using
family labor for weeding and harvesting. From an average 5-acre holding,
in place of subsistence with annual cash of about US$20-25, project farmers



- ii -
would have more assured subsistence and about US$55-70 annual cash, with
the later prospect of an annual net income exceeding US$150 from the same
land, when they move into integrated farming.
vii.      The project would be administered by an autonomous Project Author-
ity within Government. Involvement of farming community leaders would be
ensured through a Liaison Cowmittee, comprising elected representatives of
farmers and chiefs. The project would be funded through the Government budget;
USAID would finance soil conservation costs under a parallel grant; and crop
purchases would be financed by commercial banks.
viii.     Project costs are estimated at US$9.8 M equivalent, of which about
US$5.4 M (56%) would be the foreign exchange component. IDA would contribute
57% of project costs (equivalent to 39% foreign exchange costs and 19%
local costs); USAID 29%; Government about 6%; commercial banks 5%; and
farmers 3%. The proposed IDA credit to Government would be US$5.6 M.
ix.       Procurement of vehicles, farm tractors, equipment and fertilizer
(US$0.9 M) would be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Imports for
the project would be duty free.  Roads !US$0.6 M) would be ia small sections,
and buildings (US$0.6 M) few in number and widely scattered. They would
be insufficient in value to attract international competitive bidding and
would be subject to Government local tender. Seed and dairy cattle would
be bought from nearby South Africa. USAID would procure the soil conservation
equipment it financed.
X.        The project would produce an annual additional 4,600 tons of maize
and 3,100 tons of sorghum, the basic Lesotho foodgrains, of which about
150,000 tons are consumed annually and about 25,000 tons imported. It would
also produce 7,000 tons of wheat and 4,100 tons of beans, both for export.
It would thus help Lesotho achieve self-sufficiency in food and increase               I
export earnings. The value of incremental annual project production would
build up over six years to about US$1.5 M.
xi.       Soil and  climate severely limit the potential for Lesotho agri-
culture and project crops are not of high value. Since this would be the
first project of its kind in Lesotho, project overheads and training are
a high proportion of total costs; but replication could follow success and
future projects of a similar or more advanced nature would have higher
returns, not only because overheads would be spread over a larger operation
but also because results could be expected to improve as the project moves
into and extends integrated farming. The estimated annual rate of return
to the economy of Lesotho is 11%, based on the most probable assumptions.
.A 10% rise or fall in prices or yields would result in estimated rates of
return of 14% and 8% respectively. The rate of return on integrated
farming would be within the range 15-20%, and the ultimate goal is to
extend it throughout Lesotho; but without the initial stimulus which the
project would give, integrated farming is unlikely to be widely accepted.



- iii -
xii.      Although adverse factors have been taken into account, the project
would be subject to many uncertainties that cannot be easily quantified.
Success depends, for example, on overcoming resistance to change in a
traditional society, which would affect the willingness of farmers to accept
new techniques, including enclosure and livestock limitation, and to maintain
soil conservation works against insidious erosion. Farmers in the project
area show willingness to accept change and enthusiasm  for the project, while
Government offers fervent support and has publicized the project extensively.
The chances of success are therefore considered good. The project is
extremely important to Lesotho, which has few alternatives for economic
development.
xiii.     Appropriate assurances have been received at negotiations and the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.6 M. The Government of Lesotho
*          would be the borrower.



a             a



LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Lesotho's Five-Year Development Plan 1970/71-74/75 gives highest
priority to increased productivity of agriculture (on which the country is
heavily dependent), including soil conservation and control of livestock to
arrest long-recognized and persistent soil erosion. Objectives are to
transform traditional subsistence farming to cash cropping, for import
substitution and export, with emphasis on self-sufficiency in maize and
sorghum 1/; and in the longer term, to integrate rotational cropping with
improved livestock production, restore soil fertility, and achieve and main-
tain a still higher level of production.
1.02      Traditional land use and social custom stand in the way of this
longer-term objective.  In the interim, Government seeks to improve crop
production and rural living without major changes in the social system.
1.03      Following the success of the IDA-financed Lilongwe Development
Project in Malawi, visited by Lesotho Government officials and farmers, and
with help from th.e Bank's Permanent Mission in East Africa, Government pre-
pared a comprehensive project for rural development of about 300,000 acres
(ac) near Maseru, the capital (see Map). Selected partly because replication
could follow success, the project would be the first Bank Group financed agri-
cultural project in Lesotho. USAID is keen to help Lesotho with its soil con-
servation problems and is willing to participate with grant firnance for this
purpose.
1.04      This appraisal report is based on the resulting November 1971 credit
application and the findings of a mission to Lesotho in March 1972, comprising
Messrs Nelson, Myllyluoma and Schul (IDA); Henderson (consultant agriculturist)
and Vilakazi (consultant sociologist).  The mission was advised on soil con-
servation by Mr S. Fuchs of a concurrent USAID mission to Lesotho and by
Mr R. Benham (Agricultural Development Service) from Lilongwe.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Lesotho, independent since 1966, is a small (30,300 kin2), largely
mountainous country, entirely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa.
2.02      Population is around 1.1 M, growing at 2-2.5% per year.  About half
the men of working age earn their living on short-term contracts in South
1/   Sorghum vulgare:  a coarse grain, also known as millet.



Africa, and their remittances (approxi.mately US$13 M per year) are important
to the Lesotho economy.  GNP totals about US$80 M and per capita average
annual income 4s about US$80.
2.Q3       Leso-tos natural resources are agricultural land (much of it
badly eroded), natural pasture (largeLy overgrazed), water and people.
The Malibamatsu project, which the Bank is studying, would export water to
South Africa.  Attractive scenery and a ;è:easant climate provide tourist
potential. Manufacturing is still on.ly a.ibout 2% of GDP.
2.04      Lesotho has close economic te'es with South Africa and, together
w-iith Botswana and Swaziland, belongs t:o the Souti African Ctustoms Union,
using South African currency and receiving part of South African customs
revenue.  Most goods move freelv among the four countries   Though controls
are permitted on agricultural products regulated by marketing boards, they
have not so far been imposed in Lesotho, except for a livestock export quota.
2.05      Lesotho's average annual external trade deficit from 1966 to 1969
was US$28 M.  Tne British Government was financing more than nlalf Lesotho's
budget at Independence and has since coutinued to helr with bilateral, mainly
grant, aI^d averaging aDcut US$5.5 M annual-ly.
B. Agrculture
2.06      Agricilture provides the principal livelihood for about 85% of the
people and accounts for about 70% of GDP. Though the Lesotho farmer is in-
creasingly conscious of cash income, only about one-third of farm production
(mostly aninal products) is sold.  Farming is -enerally primitive, and yields
are Low.  During 1967/69, annual agricultural exports averaged about US$4 M
and were about 75% of total exports; agricultural imports, S ainly maize meal
and wheat fLour, averaged about US$7 M, or 2i  of total imports.                            4
2.07      Lesotho, with a warm temperate climate, has three ecological zones;
Lowlands at 5-6,000 ft, about 27% of the total, mostly in the west; Foothills
6-9,000 ft about 16%. and Mountains, rising to i11000 ft on the eastern border,
about 58%. only about 15% of the total is suitable for cultivation. Average,
annual rainfall varies locally between 560 and 900 mm; annua' variation is
great, and drought occurs about one year in five. Rain falls most often in
heavy showers, nearly all in summer (October-May), with a January peak (Annex 1).
2.08      Maize grows on 45% and sorghum on 30% of the cultivated area.  Of
low monetary value, they are the principal food crops.  Wheat (10%) is grown
in the Mountains as a summer crop, and in the Foothills and Lowlands as a win-
ter crop. Beans and peas (8%) are increasingly valuable exports. Rainfall
permits only one crop per field to be grcwn each year.
2.09      Sharecropping is widespread, for a number of reasons discussed in
Annex 2, paras 23-31.  The most co0n is that a landholder lacks plowing



-3-
power; so he contracts with oxen or tractor owners to plow for a share of his
crop or the use of some of his land.  This latter practice usually results in
poor preparation of the farmer's own land, but at little risk or cost to him.
2.10      Livestock production is extremely important; in 1967/69, wool and
mohair were 44% and live cattle and sheep 36% of total exports.  The country
is almost free of animal disease. Livestock graze mountain pastures in sum-
mer, and lowland pastures and crop residues in winter.  Livestock population
is estimated at 3.2 M, of which 1.6 M sheep, 0.9 M goats, 0.5 M cattle and
0.2 M horses and donkeys. This is much more than the grazing resources can
comfortably carry under present systems.  Government is anxious to improve
this situation, but is severely hampered by traditional land tenure and
social restraints (Section D and Annex 2).
2.11      Five-Year Plan investment in agriculture is estimated at US$8.2 M
(23% of the total), more than half for irrigation.  However, irrigation is
possible on less than 3% of the arable land, while improvements to dryland
farming are urgent and can be immediately implemented, with wide impact.
C. Soil Conservation
2.12      Soil erosion has been a major problem of Lesotho agriculture for
at least a century, and the rainfall pattern and traditional cropping have led
to erosion on a spectacular scale. As steep Foothill and Mountain land is
pressed into cropping through population growth, it is exposed to serious
erosion risk. More than half a million acres have been protected since 1932/33
with terraces and grass buffer strips. While helpful, they need major improve-
ment to be fully effective. The fundamental causes of erosion (faulty cropping
practices and overgrazing) cannot be effectively removed unless traditional
practices are changed. The technical answers are well known; the sociological
answers are harder to find; but if erosion continues unchecked, little land
will remain suitable for cultivation within three generations (Annex 3).
D. Sociology and Land Tenure
2.13      The principal Basotho institutions are the nation, clan, village
and family (Annex 2). The family is the most important, especially the
extended family, which includes brothers and sisters and their wives and
children, and the village, with its strong social sanctions, is a natural
unit of cooperation.
2.14      All Basotho are entitled to lands for cultivation, though in prac-
tice some are landless because no cultivable land is available. Sizes of
holdings vary greatly; where population pressure is low, they may be as large
as 15 ac per household; the average is believed to.be less than 5 ac. Enti-
tlement is a right of use, not of ownership, and land may not be traded nor



- 4 -
bequeathed. Use is exclusive to the individual only until hI s crops have been
harvested; his holding then becomes public grazing until the next crop is
planted; but the holder may not be deprived of land rights during his life-
time, without good reason.  The systeri admirably suited traditional society
when land was plentiful. It is inadequate for the present population and
quite unsuited to modern agriculture.
2.15      Apart from their economic value, livestock are exchanged in marriage
transactions and used for sacrificial purposes, still important in Basotho
life.  Under present land use, no owner has incentive to reduce his own
livestock,, because he cannot control t:he numbers that others may graze on
his land; nor is it normally possible for him to preserve cover on his soil
by restricting grazing on 4.t (Annex 2).
E.  Banking        ricultural Credit                                  I
2.16      Lesotho has no central bank.  Two foreign comercial banks have
branches, and the Post Office Savings Bank is popular for small savings.
2.17      Land cannot be pledged, so banks make few loans for agriculture.  A
few small specialized institutions lend to farmers, mostly short-term for nx-
puts such as seed and fertilizer; but their funds are limited and they lack
experienced staff (Annex 4). The most imnortant is the Co-op Lesotho Ltd
(CLL) 1/, formed in 1963 after disastrous earlier experience with cooperative
lending for agriculture. Its assets total about US$190,000., It began by
making inputs available to individuals and cooperatives on credit. Follow-
ing poor experience with individual repayments, it now lends almost exclu-
sively to member cooperatives and farmers' asscciations and its recent
repayment record is good.  In 1970/71 it ventured into marketing, at
Goverrment request, with unfortunate results because crop purchase prices
set by Government were too high and CLL was 'tLft with large unsold stocks.               4
2.18      Credit has high priority for Lesotho rural development and Govern-
ment created the Lesotho National Development and Savings Bank (LDB) as the
channel for development financing. The manager is expected in late 1972
but it will be some time before LDB is ready to engage in agricultural
lending.
III.  PROJECT AREA
A. General
Location
3.01      The project area is about 300,000 ac, comprising most of the
Little Caledon Watershed and the Berea Piateau (see Map). Most of it is less
1/   Formerly the Finance and Marketing Cooperative Union of Lesotho (FMCUL).



- 5 -
than a day's drive from Maseru. Altitude is between 5,000 and 6,500 ft,
except on the mountainous eastern boundary (nearly 10,000 ft).
Climate, Topography and Soils
3.02      Climate is typical for Lesotho Lowlands and Foothills (see para 2.07,
Annex 1 and Chart 6799), rain averaging about 600-700 mm. Lowlands are in-
terspersed with steep-sided plateaux and deep valleys; Foothills are gently
undulating to steep.  Annual area cultivated is estimated at 80-110,000 ac,
depending on climate. Only about 75,000 ac are really suitable for permanent
cropping; the rest is more suitable for grazing, with very occasional cropping
(Annex 1, paras 25-28). Soils vary greatly and many are erodible, needing
special protection.  Little original natural vegetation and almost no trees
remain. Poor annual grasses are dominant in grazing, though better grasses
intrude on cropped land after harvest.
3.03      The Little Caledon and several small streams flow perennially;
many others are seasonal. Groundwater is available at about 40 meters and
there are 29 boreholes in the area.  Drinking water is no problem.
Communications and Services
3.04      The project area is linked to Maseru by a paved road, and a major
secondary road runs through part of it. The rest is served by poor roads and
tracks only usable by 4-wheel drive vehicles or animal traffic. There are
five light aircraft strips in or near the project area. Roma and Mazenot
have postal and telephone services.  Roma, main campus of the University of
Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UBLS), has a hospital and there are nine
field clinics in the area.
The Farmers
3.05      Farmers in the project area grow mainly subsistence crops, using
ox or tractor power, and employing family labor for weeding and harvesting.
Many rely on their extended family groups for labor.
B. Production, Extension and Marketing
3.06      Average yields, in a normal year, are low:  estimated at 400 lb/ac
for maize and sorghum; 500 lb/ac wheat; and 200 lb/ac beans (Annex 5, Table 1).
A short season and erratic rainfall demand timely cultivation, and the use of
ox or tractor-drawn plows is normal, with very little hand cultivation.
Relatively few farmers own their own oxen, fewer still their own tractors.
Oxen are weak at plowing time after poor winter grazing, and tractor owners
take care of their own land first.  Most cultivation thus tends to be late and
poorly done.  Though tractors are increasing (60 in the project area), effi-
ciency is generally poor, due to lack of training, inadequate servicing, lack
of capital and delayed payment (usually not until after harvest).



-6-
3.07      Near Maseru, a few farmers keep dairy cows in fenced enclosures, to
supply up to a total of 50 galonse of milk a day to the cap"tal.  This will
form the basis for the TNDP milk processing and collection scheme, tilhich
would aLso market project miluk production.  Elsewhere in the proJect area
there .s serious overstocking and overgrazing (see paras 2.10 and 2.15),
3.08      The extension service has six offiEcers at certificate level in
the project area.  Though well trained and enthusiastic, their efforts are
circumscribed by lack of credit funds, transport, and an overal. extenAslon
policy.  They are also far too few (aLou  5 1:3,000 farmers, compared t. wth
about I :500-1,000 achieved irn Kenya, f'or example).
3e09      Project area grain is marketed through 22 traders, handling an es-
timated 65,000 bags annually.  CLL  has no facilities in the area but it pur-
chiased about 15,000 bags in 1971, loaded directly onto trucks,  There are two
maize/sorghum millss each with a total annual capacity of about 40,0 0 bags.
3.10      Population density is about 200/sq mi in the Lowlands, 100/so mAi
in the FoothillSO Nearly all cultlvatio-n is nonmanual and arond 150 man-
days would suffice to work the average holding, readily ava.lable from the
extended family.
IV. THE PR JECT
A. General D3e.scription
4.01      The project comprises:  the timely provision to a,out 12,000 peasant
farmers, of improved seed, fertilizer and cUlt'vation services; the credit to
acquire them;. technical agricultural gui-dance in their use; marketing for the
resultant crop; road development; and soil coniservation. Over six years, in-
cluding about a year of planning and preDaration, it would improve maize,
sorghum, wheat and bean production on about 60,000 ac of land which is poorly            6
cultivated at present; and extend dairy farming through the supply of 400
good grade cows to selected farms.  Integrated farming would be gradua:Lly
introduced, aimed at higher levels of permanent agriculture, including im-
proved production of livestock. The project would be administered by an
autonomous Project Authority within Government.
B. Detailed Features
4.02      Agricultural techniques for project production are explained in
Annex 5. Details of on-farm costs are Lin Annex 6.



7-
Seasonal Inputs
4.03      The fundamental feature of the project and basic origin of its
material benefit, substantially improving crop yields from their present
very depressed level, is the supply of seed, fertilizer, pesticides and,
where required, cultivation services, as a "package" on seasonal credit,
each package being designed in units of one acre for the particular crop
and location. The incremental cost of 3upplying these inputs is included
in project costs.
Tractors and Machinery
4.04      One hundred 60 HP tractors, plows and cultivator/planters would be
imported and made available on five-year credit, to experienced contractors
and to progressive farmers or farmer associations with tractor experience
and good agricultural performance. Tractor owners would complete a training
course (or otherwise satisfy project staff of their competence) and undertake
to: employ project-trained or tested drivers; follow project-approved
standards; have regular maintenance carried out; give project farming
priority; and work for cash (provided by project credit), not for share of
crop or use of land.
Dairy Stock
4.05      High quality Friesian and Brown Swiss dairy cows would be imported
from South Africa (para 4.22) and made available on five-year credit,
to farmers participating in the integrated farming program who had built
simple sheds to receive them, and had successfully completed a dairying
course.
Extension Service
4.06      Except for a few individuals, project farmers would form farmers'
associations of between 20 and 100 members to pool resources and obtain
credit. The extension service would include the equivalent of one agricul-
tural extension agent for about 250 farmers, or one to 6-8 farmers' associa-
tions in Year 2, rising to 1:350 farmers, or 1:8-12 farmers' associations
by Year 6 (Annex 7). This is not a high intensity, but techniques would
be standardized and few, and channelling through associations would greatly
help. The high literacy rate of Lesotho farmers and their wives should
ensure greater effectiveness of the extension service than in some other
countries. Farmers would be advised on proper selection and use of seed
and fertilizer, cultivation techniques and timing for crops and proper
control and production methods for all their livestock. The service would
also coordinate with project marketing, credit and soil conservation to
inform farmers of these activities.



Training and Research
4.07       Additi-Lonal o     taLf9 buildings and equi4piren't iould be provided for
the Miatelas Farmer Training Center, whic'n would serve the training and
demrnstration needs of nro4ect extension, credit and marketing services.
T,t wuould also train farmers In crop and livestock productiori and simple
budgeting; farmers' association secretaries and chairmen in simple
admiTonistratSaion and bookkeepIng; and hold seminars fLor government officia's,
traditional chinefs  and others.  Tne G.overnment tractor school in Masern
would be Drov7i ded -with additional staff and equipment and the project
tractor instructor would operate from there (Annex 8\.  During negotiations
assurances were obtaTned that the necessary facilities at the Maseru tractor
school would be made available to the Project Authority,
4.08       Project research would dlepend heavily on the existing Governm<ent
M-aseru Research Station, and the substat1Lon In the oroject area, wn.ich would
be strengthened by the additior of land, housing, simple laboratories andi
farm buildings.  Staff wosuld comprise a research officer, and a field
research officer, assisted by research staff from Governmient, from trne
7URND? Leribe -Project, about 40 mi north of the priject5 area, and fr.om URLS
(Annexes 9 and 1 0)    They would work under a unified program, b' t with
special attention to the project.
Credit and  Market ig Services
4.09       Governmwent ss proceeding cautiously with provision of credLt ser-
vices and no Institution is yet ready to provide them to the  project epara
2.18); nor has Government yet decided on its produce market.i-g polcices,
CLL buys produce from its members but has neither staff nor facllities to
market project crops.  It is important that pro4ect input supply, cred-it
and marketing be coordinated under the firm conntro. of the Project Manager.
During the initial period, therefore, thlle Project Authority would:  buy and
distribute farm inputs; provide credit; and purchase output, as agent for
CLL.                                                                                        4
4.1,0     Farmers are reluctant to produce crop surpluses t'at they have to
sell at poor prices @Sto traders who are not very interested in produce
dealing, and unwilling to expand thei7 facilities (Annex 11).  The project
would therefore provide five principal mrkets and, six subsidiary ones,
which would also serve as the channel for distribbution of inputs and
repayment of credit, and be the focus for extension work0  T'hey iould be
equipped with simple buildings to accom-modate expected project production
and staff housing.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government
would see that adequate land was prov,ided free for these markets0
4.11      Marketing staff would be hir-ed and trained by the Project Authority
and their net co.st is included until covered by market reveniue.  Marketing
staff fand facilities would be taken over by CLL at an appropriate time.
Details are in Annexes 12 and 13.



-9-
Roads
4.12      About 90 km of all-weather gravelled main roads, and 100 km of
dry-weather ungravelled subsidiary access roads would be constructed or
improved (see Map and Annexes 14 and 15). A Roads Engineer would supervise
and control road work. Assisted by the Public Works Department and consul-
tants, he would design roads and plan construction, to be completed over
two to three years. Labor is available, and would be used extensively for
road work, though it would be insufficient and uneconomic for major earth-
moving, which would be mechanized and carried out mainly by subcontractors,
using their own equipment. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that the Ministry of Works would satisfactorily maintain project roads.
Soil Conservation
0           4.13       Soil conservation and farm road construction would be carried out
by three USAID-recruited senior staff and the Roads Engineer, assisted by
24 man-months of USAID consultancy and the Ministry of Agriculture Soil
Conservation Division (Annex 3 F). Soil conservation works would be
preceded by aerial photography and preparation of a coordinated agricultural
and soil conservation plan for each area. They would comprise approximately
1,680 km of diversion terraces; 600 drainage structures; repair to, or
reconstruction of, 4,800 km of terraces; 400 km of 12-ft farm access roads,
with associated protective fencing, grass and tree planting. Details are
in Annexes 3 and 16. Before implementation of soil conservation works in
any area, agreement would be obtained from farmers' associations, chiefs
and Government that maintenance and protection of such works, as specified
by project staff, would be provided.  Suitable assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations. It would be a condition of effectiveness
that an agreement satisfactory to IDA had been signed by Government and
USAID for the financing of soil conservation works in the project area.
Integrated Farming
4.14      Integrated farming, described in Annex 5, Part B, would lead to
higher sustained production and better soil conservation; but it needs
changes in traditional land use that cannot be easily or quickly brought
about. Farmers would need full rights over their cropping and contiguous
grazing land to enable them to change their cropping systems and keep
improved stock in correct numbers. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that plans for integrated farming, including grazing control and
stock limitation, would be submitted to and agreed with IDA at the appropriate
time. Parts of the project area have larger than average farms (15-20 ac)
and relatively few livestock and about 5,000 ac would be selected to intro-
duce integrated farming in Year 4 or 5, based on studies and research in
Years 2 and 3. The program would comprise: mapping and measuring of farm
holdings; more intensive use of inputs; improved livestock production, with
fending and sheds; and a cropping plan to include fodder, grassland and
crop rotations (Annex 17).



- 10
Pro ect Administration
4 &15     Project headquarters would ble at Maseru, where an office building,
store and m-ost- staff housing would be constructed on Government land.  Detalis
C.L staff, buildings. vehicles and equipment are in Annex 18.
Phasing
4.16       Farmer demanc, for project inputs is expected to be keen; but accep-
tance of' conicditios-, especially p-oper cultivatior. and maintenance of. s0` con-
servaticnI, may not occur so readily.  WTihout such conditionis, the potent4al
of improved seed and fertilizer would not- be realized, or not long maintaainedf
and farma income rould fall short for credit repayment and generationr of a
wort.hwhile cash surml'us.  Effective institutions for project imlpementratIon are
lacking and the first year would be largely occupied with p2lanning9 zrepara-
tion and recruitment.  Staf-f would need to be trained to provide technical
guidance, tractor operator instruction and credit and marketing serncas. CS
-here is arn acute shortage of such staff  Ln Lesotho whiich cEan only be Partly
remedied by outside recruitmenit, and the project would only progress as fast
as they could be recruited. Based on appraisal estimates of sta'f availalbili  ty
anl training rate, the approximate phasing of farmiers and areas of land
coming into the project would be:
Ö-- - - -- - - - -YearÖ-- - - - - -
Farmers          1        2        3        4       5         6       T.ta
Number          200   a1,200   1,600   2,000   39000    4,000    12AQ200
Cumulative      200    1,400   3,000   5,000   89000   12,00t
%                2        12      25        50     67        ,0o
Acres
Lonlands         -        800   2,2 00   3, 00O    6,000    6,000    '8,000
Foothills       250       750   2!00    3,000   6,000    6_0O0    1 8000
Total       250    1,550   4,200   6,000  12,000   12,000    36 000
Cumulative      250 C1   ,800   6,000  12,00O  24,000   3D6,000
Acres/farmer    -         1.3      2.0      2.4     3.0       3.0
4. 17     This rate of development is a minirnm objective and would be speeded
up to meet farmer demand, as staffing allowed.  Since appraisal, Govern.aent
has planned to in-crease certificate and diploma level training, which shoulld
ensure adequlate staff at this level by Year 2.  Project farnmers in Year 6.
wqould be about 70% of all farmers in the project area, a high but achievable
proportion.
Environment
4.18      The project would improve the environment through soil conservation
that would restore vegetative cover to eroded land and help control soil loss
and the silting of rivers and dams.  'Farn incomes are slender and cannot bear
the loss of crop from serious pest infestation nor the cost of expensive
pesticides; small amounts of inexpensive DDT would therefore be used to con-
trol oests, under close control of project staff.  Less persistent and danger-
ous cshemicals wou-d be substituted, if found effective and economical.  Dressing
of seed 'would excalude mercurial compounds.



- 1 1 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.19      Total six-year project cost is estimated at R 7.8 M (US$9.8 M),
of which about US$5.4 M (56%) weuld be foreign exchange. Estimates are based
on recent experience and appraisal findings, including those of USAID.
Physical contingencies are applied to roads (20%), incremental fertilizer
requirements (10%), and operating costs during development (10%).  Quantities
of other items are reasonably certain. Price contingencies of about 19%
overall are made up from a compounded annual 5% on foreign and local costs
and R 50,000 to compensate for the effects of 1972 parity changes of the
Rand on the US$ component of soil conservation costs. Project costs are
totalled in Annex 19 with details in Annexes 6-18.
Summarized Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
--Rand  (thousands)       -US$ (thousands)----   Exchange
1973/78              Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   Total         %
On-farm Costs          177       744     921    223       937    1,160    81
Technical Services    496        406     902    625       512    1,137    45
Credit Services        250       157     407    315      198       513    39
M4arketing Services    608       256      864    766      323    1,089    30
Soil Conservation      763    1,191   1,954    961   1,500    2,461    61
Integrated Farming      72        79     151      91       99      190    52
Roads                  190       306     496    239       386      625    62
Administration         303       423     726    382       533      915    58
Subtotal          2,859    3,562   6,421  3,602   4,488    8,090    55
Contingencies
- Physical             34        81     115      43     102       145    70
- Price               551       663   1,214    693      842    1,535    55
TOTAL PROJECT COST  3,444    4,306   7,750  4,338   5,432    9,770    56
D.  Financing, Procurement and Disbursement
Financing
4.20.     IDA would provide US$5.6 M or 57% of project costs, comprising the
equivalent of the foreign exchange costs not financed by USAID (US$3.8 M
being 39% of total, 70% of foreign costs) and the balance of local costs
(US$1.8 M being 18% of total, 43% of local costs) (Annex 20). USAID would
provide 29% as a parallel grant to finance soil conservation (except aerial
survey and vehicles); Government about 6%; commercial banks 5% for produce
financing; and farmers 3% through downpayments. Summarized project fiLnancing
(including contingencies) would be:



- 12 -
Farmers   Banks   Govt.   USAID    IDA   Total
I-US $ (thousands) -
On-farm Costs                280        - ,Z1  120        -   1,070   1,470
Staff and  ,nerations         -        530    280      1,220  3,000   5,030
V.ehicles and Equipment       -         -      40        300    350       690
Bu. idn gs                    -         -       70       170    650       890
Soil Conservation  Torks      -        _        50     1,310    530   1,690
/2
Totals                 280      530    560-   2,800  5:,600   9 ,770
f(P"Oercent)          (3)       (,5    (6)        (29)   (57)   (100)
/I   Incremental z.orking capital for crop purchases.
/2   I- .Cluding UJNDr US$40,000.
Financial ImDlications for Government
4.21      Financial' implications for Government are illustrated. in Annex 21.
By convention, the  Lesotho Go.vernment receives revenue from the Customs Union           I
based on- the total value of all dutiable imported i tems _in t:he Cu'stoms Union
related to total estimated Lesotho imports, whethelr duty is pa.d or no£.
A.1though Government imports are duty free, their value is included in the
allocation to Lesotho.  Revenue corresDonds to about 20% ofse value of
im-orts at the Lesotho border.  On-farm and marketing costs would boe fully
recovered from farmers; funds generated by the Droject to meet other costs
would be: interest from project borrowers; duties and taxes generated by
goods purchased by farmers with their higlher project i.ncomes; an average 4.5%
income tax on salaries of project staff; and rents from pro&ect houses. Annex
21 shows that Government cash flow would be positive from Year 2 until about
Year 21 when IDA annual debt service .would be R 150,000 (US$189,000), and
estimated annual net outflow R 100,000.  By this time, project farmers should
have moved on to irxtegrated farming with appreciably higher incomes (though
st-ill less than an estimated US$180) and would corsequently generate more
tax revenue from their spending.  Government .uuld a'1so have revenue available
from a development levy on income tax and th e Maize Meal Fund to cover the
balance,  In view of the above, arLd h1Lving regard to the modest farn  incomes,
no development charge to project beneficiaries isproposed initially (see para 6.11
Procurement
4,22      Procurement of vehicles, tractors, farm equipment and fertilizer
(US$0.9  MN would be in accordance witli Bank/IDA guidelines.  The successful
bidder for tractors would have, or undertake to provide, adequate servicing
.in Maseru or the project area. Tractor orders would be bulked each year
and operators financed under the project would purchase tractors from the
successful bIdder. Project imports w,ould be duty free.  To facilitate
initial project implementation and emergency purchase of replacements, the
Project Manager would procure items of equipment up to an individual value
o0  US$8,000 and a total value of US$60,000 by local competitive tender.
Roads (US$0.67 M) would be In small sections and buildings (US$0.6 M) few
in number and widely scattered.  They would not be sufficient i-n value
to attract international competitive bidding and would be subject to Govern-
ment l ocal tender procedures, which are satisfactory.  Dairy cattle
(US$60,000) would be bought, subject Ito project staff guidance and approval,
fro.r South Africa where they are suitable, acclimatized and plentiful.



- 13 -
Most would be purchased by farmers directly; others by project staff, on th
their behalf. Seed (US$144,000) would be purchased from South African
cooperatives and seed firms, which offer good quality, keen prices and,
most importantly, varieties acclimatised to local conditions. USAID would
procure the soil conservation equipment it financed (US$0.3 M). Suitable
assurances as to procurement were obtained during negotiations, including
assurances that draft tender documents for all contracts exceeding
US$50,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before invitations
were issued; that bid analyses and recommendations for award would be
submitted to IDA for comment before award; and that project purchases
would not be limited to brand names on Government's official purchase list.
Disbursements
4.23      For imported goods, disbursements would be made against 100% of
CIF value if internationally procured, or 90% of the total value if locally
procured. For the services of expatriate staff, 100% of costs would be
disbursed. Disbursements for oti-er project costs would be against 90% of
total expenditure on the basis of a certificate of expenditure, the documen-
tation for which is not submitted for review, but is retained by the Borrower
and available for inspection by IDA during project supervision, Any surplus
credit amounts would be cancelled. A disbursement schedule is at Annex 22,
Table 2.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Control and Operation
5.01      The project would be implemented by an autonomous Project Authority
to be created within the Government. This Authority would comprise the
Senior Permanent Secretary, Chairman; the Permanent Secretaries for Agricul-
ture, Finance and Works; and a senior representative each from the Planning
Office and the Ministry of Interior. The members of the Authority would
decide on policy, approve budgets and, with IDA's approval, recruit senior
staff. Meetings, with the Project Manager as Secretary, would be held at
least quarterly.
5.02      The Project would be administered by the Project Manager who would
be fully responsible for project operations. Other senior staff would com-
prise the Financial Controller and the Heads of the three divisions: Land
Planning and Soil Conservation; Extension; and Marketing/Credit (Chart 6770).
They would be supported by 6 professional, 15 technical and administrative,
and 80 general service staff. The Bank's Agricultural Development Service
in Nairobi is providing the Project Manager; USAID would provide the senior
Soil Conservation staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
above senior staff, satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed, and it would
be a condition of effectiveness that the Project Manager had been appointed.
5.03      Involvement of the farming community would be encouraged by com-
mittees at all levels with a Project Liaison Committee in Maseru, under an
elected chairman, comprising: four farmers' representatives, elected by
area committees; four representatives of the Principal Chiefs; and one
representative each from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Planning Office.
Other members would be co-opted as required. This committee would be the
forum for farmers' views and problems and would aim to meet monthly, with
the Project Manager in attendance.
5.04      The Project Authority would be a developmental, not a service,
organization with functions not normal to a Government department, operating



- itR -
at varying  ntensities (at first emplo:ing as mwny staff as the entire
Ministrry of   rtture .  7It wouJild0 need, to respond quickly to changfng com-
mercsal auid tafTng conditIons   Pt ivuld emp Loy specialist staff, in cuding
some Tith  ooc practicaI backgroun.d but not necessarily with academic
qualificatfons needed for the civil service, and  wouId need to offer terms
and condit:Guons d`ifferent from, but attractive eanough to match, more perma rent
civil serv4ice empoyment.  Am average project allowance of 12.5% above
equvalent n stesabishment pay is provided fo0r.  Dtring -negoti--ations termns
and cond.itons of emplo-yment of proj ect staff were substantiaIly agreed 2u.th
TDA and assurances obtained that they would be imlIemented.
5.05       For caI  these reasons, sim-Ple legislation w.as necessary to give the
Authority the rer:red freedom of a,ction and substitute Aitsuthxollty Control for
Government rsgeo-ation, e.g., for staff selection, contract hir:ng  salary
scaz-es and project al1lowTances, procurement and tender boards and accountIng
procedures.  It would also enable the Autthority to busy and sell crops as
an agent or on. i ts own, account, if necessary. At negotiations, suiLtable draft    C
.egislation was agreed with IDA an. asszurances given that such legi.slatior
would be implemLented before disburseminent.
Sta afing
5.06      Seror staff woild need to 'ave extensive atministrat-ive experieace,
poreferably with si9 ' .olar rural development projects in Africa; and, training
would be an important part of th.er job. While ev-ery effort would be mrt¢'e
to hire suitable Basotho, it is unlikely that many would have the right
experience.  Cost estimates are therefore based on international recruitment
of key staff,  Ith training of Basotho deputies to take over as soon
as they are ready.
5.07     9Project extenson officers would have acquired field traiLning
and experience dn the Ministry of Agriculture0  GoveYmment is W∞lU1.ing to
allowT some, dismissed during the 1970 politicoI upheaval, to be employed in
the project.  Assurances were obtained at negoti.ations that Government would
second staff for the project, if requested by tth.e Project Authority
5.08       Basotho have a high rate ofr lIteracy at primary scliool level, and
many acquire useful practical experiezace in South Africa.  These, and                     I
secondary school l-eavers, are expected to be sufficient and sultabsie for
training as credIt and marketing staff, crop demonstrators and others, if
they are vigorously recruited and the proposed pay scalzes are adopted.
Credit
5.b}9      Credit would be provided through the Project Credit Account, a
revolving fund increased each year by the Treasury to meet the season's
needs. Credit funds from Government and from farmers' debt service would
be paid into the accounit.  It would be controlled by the Chief Credit and
Marketing Officer, assisted by the Deluty Credit Officer, credit assistants
trained at Matelas (para 4.07), and accounting staff, Government may wish
to channel credit funds through LDB (Annex 4. para 1S9), once it has become
functional.  During negotiations assurances were obtained that IDA's agree-
ment would be obtained before this channel is chosen.  The conditions under
which the Proiect Authority would thea operate on behalf of: LDB would need
to be stipulated in a formal agreement. Assurances that such an agreement
.970uld be submitted to IDA for prior approval were obtained during negotiations.



- 15 -
5.10      LDB is empowered to seize all farm assets of delinquent borrowers
and to take over and farm their lands until its debts have been serviced.
However, LDB is not yet operating, and exercise of these powers might not be
practicable, in view of traditional land tenure. Input credit would therefore
generally be tied to farmers' associations, whose members would be collec-
tively responsible for their project debts. To be eligible, a farmer would
normally have to be a member of an association approved and registered with
the project; only exceptionally would an individual be accepted as credit-
worthy on his own.  The association would assure that each farmer applicant:
had asked for project credit; had rights to sufficient lands, which had
been registered with the project; worked his lands regularly and well; and
would himself be, or would see that a competent member of his extended
family was, resident near the Lands to be farmed.  Furthermore, the asso-
ciation would agree to accept responsibility for the applicant's project
debts if he were in default.
5.11      Each accepted farmer would also be registered with the Project
Authority and receive a credit record card. Initially, project staff would
assess each farmer's capability; but associations would take this over
as they became established and accepted as reliable.
5.12      Seasonal Credit:  All seasonal input credit (para 4.03) would be
in kind, with crop inputs delivered through market depots, where project
staff would ensure that project, association and farmer records were
consistent.  Each farmer would pay in advance, 10% of input cost as his
contribution, 10% as a bad debt reserve, and 10% as a crop failure reserve.
The interest rate on outstanding amounts (80% of the input credit and bad
debt) would be 1% per month. The crop failure reserve would be credited
to a savings account at interest until it reached 100% of input value, to
be drawn as the Project Authority approved.  Credit schemes rurn by Church
missions and CLL require deposits of up to 50%, so these advance payments
should not prove too onerous. The bad debt reserve would be refunded to
an association on full repayment of i ts members' credit for the season or
to a paid-up individual farmer and no member of a defaulting associLation
or a defaulting individual would receive project inputs or credit for the
next season.
5.13      Farmers' credit would be collected as produce was sold,  The
project relies on the sanction of input/credit refusal and on the communal
spirit of associations (see Annex 2, paras 12-14) to ensure repayment.
Experience suggests that net proceeds, after debt service, could be higher
than gross proceeds paid by traders, so the temptation to by-pass project
depots and avoid debt repayment may not be great. Nevertheless, in view of
the importance of successful credit management, and previous poor credit
history in Lesotho, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Authority would promptly exercise all available remedies to support project
debt collection.
5.14      Medium Term Credit: Tractors and Dairy Cows.  Deposits for tractor
credit would be 25%, for dairy cows 50%. The annual interest rate charged on
the outstanding amount would be 9%, zwhich is lower than the 10.5% charged on
the few loans made by commercial baneks, but borrowers would be subject to



xt-.l6tOW  conztzcnr cmcl 2.rnder close project control.  Repayment of the tractor
.,r.  -^-0  rl+ be r_) r .1. 3V f'rough thez, 'a-rmers  r ray&.,memnts  for tractor opera-
o              rbe d   cte  q  ,e&te -o ', the tractor ow-er s account; the
-e -In,-7er   aIT.cte: s0 be -smalt, ande would be pai-d by thie owner through
extr a   -prj-r  tractor cpezratoro_s.  Relpayment of loans for 'a-iry cows would
bDe ffoum 5o2-              a"- - m-IvLIUar nngs.  aitho-ignh the Pro ect Authortty
,7 S,t<.--  contro" over th s_ sa-es. -.ne rnumber of these loans and
n'       Ae  iate,grateC far-ring area wo.Tould  ' 7ait the risk of
5,15         r     g We o..d be cona t ro.Illed by the Ghfef Credit and Marketing
b y i    Denuty hM>rka t    Officer,, mwr"ketng asszstAntsicrop
gr?c5e-S          at M"ateas           '" ang staff , o02 behalfE o-f CLL.  Under
a f7orma'_. rEO5e. `e.O  he :Project           TI;o- doxitr  7fOUCcrk closely with CLL in
7:s.                                      .'n 3-  r-6o ,,,u,v szle c2n;;;ztelsZ     2-1    egoti'ations, assur,.'ances were
. t>n.ts<d'Y -Tco.2-z Frasnt yould  pe=dBt, CLL to operate on comaercial lines and
6-3 i1,c- 'at ouls hn.s.<; -egard to :kikef. conrdt`-ons and farmers'
nrn5<l;5es.ei?..Ule a''sursnces wo"e aZIso obtas -ied that ftnds for crop
e   ' .''    pro-,riddso   by  6   banks, ?a  tt:ov.y are nntc provied for.
s  ?                a't nne ..ae urrent-ly t9% per year)  st>.CeZt to Govern-
ment'i gra tamta-
5.16      .Roiuein3 r rould be o'f Standard. Government design and markets would
be   o>refel'r i ted.  Buildi-ng would te supervised by the Ministry of Works
'.d csrrie<   b>t     abcontractoar.   Assurances were obtained férom Government
at in vo> -.       z1rf   adequQate land for project buildings and houses would
'2  r  ..t3-c z:'   5  ,>.SS41     l
Acco%.nto arC AuQ5`C
5,Y 7      ne Project Authority would ka.ep separate accounts in, commercial
£orm ?showΩ; oThe results or i.ts dtfferent activities, e.g. credit2 market-
-v    The'-   -'..f.'I be pre-nared anrnual   fr audtit by thze Audttor-General
1 n   r e7'  +- n  .C sOf the  -iQacuaa 7ear end.  Quarterly summary, and
dia-ft, and         ans.al. ac23unts wolU-Ledd be subtmaited to the Proiect Author-
dty  nd Ei7_11z, '.i. _ . assurances twera obtain-ed a' regoiatiatons.
5,1-5S     FVunds ws70so-Id be provided from  the Treasur' through a one-tlne Budget
vote.  U7SA4i Gn   -s 7a9'ould be provided by a direct grant.  The Project Author-
I.tv we"OuIl  fo`vrecast quarterly funds required, net of infLlow (e.g. from inter-
est an,d  oan repayments)2 and these  r uald be provvided in advance to a project
bank account, t,he Project Manager lbe-ing appointed a Chief Accounting Officer
_  'lisB purpose.  Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions



- 17 -
Monitoring
5.19      A Project Evaluation Officer (agricultural economist), assisted
by a sociologist, would be responsible for monitoring project progress,
including farmer performance, and collect data for the preparation of future
projects. He would submit annual reports through the Project Manager to the
Project Authority and IDA, within three months of the year end. Suitable
assurances were obtained at negotiations.
VI . PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
A. Production and Yields
6.01      Production and yield information is scanty. This Section is based
on a few past surveys, Ministry of Agriculture data and field observation.
6.02      The acreage of crops grown each year tends to fluctuate according
to season, with areas left unplanted when the rains are late or poor. In
the project area, about 100,000 ac are cropped most years, of which 25,000 ac
are marginal, on steep slopes or land that ought to be used for grazing only.
6.03      Estimated annual yields without and with project inputs, and with
the integrated farming program are:
Crop       Without         With        Integrated
Yields      Project        Project        Farming
lb           lb              lb
Maize         400           1,600          2,400
Sorghum       400           1,600          2,400
Wheat         500           1,400          2,000
Beans         200             900          1 ,200
Estimates "with project" are based on trials (Annex 9, page 3), observation
of yields actually obtained by progressive farmers in the field, and experience
in other countries (notably Malawi) where similar inputs have been applied -
having regard to different soil and climate. They are believed to be achiev-
able by the average project farmer.
6.04      Farmers who do not directly participate would nevertheless benefit
from better roads, markets, prices, and better availability of cultivation
power. This benefit is estimated to occur towards the end of the project
period and to amount to about 200 lb/ac of mixed cereals.
6.05      Production of wool/mohair is assumed to remain unchanged. Project
dairy farmers would each produce approximately 250 gallons/year of fresh
milk and sell the equivalent of one yearling calf every three years and one
cull cow every five.



- 1b98 -
B.  Markets rand Fr ces
6.06      All project sorghtm, wheat nd beans and half the maize would be
exported, the other half being miiled for local sale 1/. Two-thirds of
the beans would be consmed in South Africa, the rest sold on the world
market.  South Africa is bound by the Customas Union (see para 2.04) to
accept Lesotho surpluses, so long as free circulation of farm products
across its border continues. ProJect mze, sorghu  and wheat woLld
each be less than 1% of South Africa&s prodtuction.  Project beans represent
less than 10% of South African bean/pea production and 70% of 1970/71
production of Small Thite Haricot beans, co-sTSnption of which is expected
to continue increasing at about 2.5%/year.  World market demand for the
small excess is satisfactory (Annex 11)3
6.07      Marketing of the kinds of crops to be grown by the project is con-           4
trolled in South Africa by Marketing Boards.  T.hese f.ix prices for maize and
wheat, and guarantee floor prices for sorghum and beans.  Grain prices have
increased over the past five years at average annual rates vary4ng from 1 to
3.5% (Annex 11, Table 6). Production is expected to follow consumption
trends, and producer prices to remain at their present leveL at current Rand
values. Bean prices have been steady over the last five years but are ex-
pected to decline as Lesotho productionn meets South African demand with sur-
pluses for export; however, they w:ould still remain somaewhat higher than
world market prices (Annex 11, para :2). Farmers? prices per 200 lb bag,
best grade, a2e forecast for maize at 13 3.00 (US$42/ton), sorghum R 2.70
(US$37.5/ton), wheat R 5.20 (US$72.2/t-on) and beans R 13.0 (US$180.5/ton)
(Annex 11, Table 8).  Information on v7orld markets for beans was obtained
from South African brokers and is co'fir med by the Bank's Economics Depart-
ment.
C. Farmers' Bennefits
6.08      Farm budgets in Annex 23 are based on several farm models and
appropriate packages of farm inputs.  In place of subsistence, with annual
cash of about R 18/20, a wheat farmer (probably in the Foothills) would have,
in addition to his subsistence, about R 55 annual net cash income; a maize/
sorghum farmer (probably in the Lowlands) about R 45. Both would have the
prospect of integrated farming wit'h net income, from the same acreage, well
above R 100. Beeans are the most profitable crop; but net profit is not the
only criterion on which farmers base their cropping decisions, and a basic
food crop would probably always be grcown until more advanced integrated
farming is adopted.
6.09      The budget for a wheat farmer shows that, in a year of drought, he
would need the crop failure reserve to service his debts, with about R 10 to
spare.
1/   Although Lesotho is a net importer of maize (para 7.01), it sells maize
grain for milling in South African mills.



- 19 -
6.10      One milk cow would produce an annual net income of about R 50.
6.11      Farm incomes, even with the project, are modest; and farmers would be
asked to make changes that are risky to them in relation to achievable benefits.
No general development levy is therefore proposed initially, because it would
discourage farmer participation in a novel, but important, venture.  Government
undertook to consider a development levy at a later stage, when the project is
sufficiently well established, participation proved profitable and integrated
farming substantially introduced.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Benefits and Costs
7.01      The project would, from year 6, increase annual cash production of
maize by 4,600, sorghum by 3,100, wheat by 7,000 and beans by 4,100 tons.
This compares with annual consumption of 150,000 tons maize and sorghum, of
which 25,000 tons mainly meal are imported. Total annual gross value would
be R 1.2 M (US$1.5 M).
7.02      The project would reduce dependence on imports, increase exports,
and help to feed a growing population. It would substantially improve the
standard of living for about 12,000 farim families and lay the foundation for
still further improvement. New crops, such as sunflower and seed potatoes,
are likely to be grown by some farmers, but the profitability of such crops
and the amount that would be grown cannot be forecast.
7.03      Grain and beans are valued at the gross price, average grades,
delivered nearest South African market (Annex 11). All values are less bags
and cleaning cost.
7.04      Investment costs are included at their financial value.  Allocation
of senior staff costs is expected to decline as the project becomes estab-
lished and staff become involved in other projects, or are phased out (Annex
24). Other project services, except credit and marketing, are likewise ex-
pected to be reduced in intensity as the project becomes established.
7.05      Family labor on project farms would work more effectively but
would not increase in numbers. No farm labor cost is therefore attributed
to the project.
7.06      The benefit of soil conservation is particularly difficult to
evaluate. It is certain that, without it, yields would decline steadily,
even from their present low levels; and yields forecast for the project
would not long continue.  Soil conservation is therefore vital to the project.
The benefit depends on how quickly soil fertility would decline, and on the
value of crops that would consequently be lost without it; and no reliable
information is available on either factor. Observers with conservation and
agricultural experience estimate that yields without the project, on land
badly affected by soil erosion, would fall steadily at a rate of about 5% per
year from 400 lb/ac to 200 lb/ac of mixed cereals.  On this basis, the annual
rate of return from soil conservation alone would be about 10%.



- 20 -
B. Rate of Return and Sensitivity
7.07      SOlZ. and climate limit thae potential for Lesotho agriculture, and
project crons  except for beans, are not of high value.  Since this would be
the first proejct of its kind in Lesotho, project overheads and training
are a high, pro ortion of total cost; and the scale of operations would
inev'itbt  be small to begin with; but replication could follow success and
future projects of a similar or more advanced nature would have higher
returns 9 not only because overheads would be spread over a larger operation
but al2so b cause results could be expected to improve as the project moves
into and extends integrated farming.  'he estimated rate of return to
tne econcsny of Lesotho is sensitive to price, yield and timing; on various
assDptio nz, over a 25-year project life, it would be:
Basis                               Percent                       I
Most probable, including soil conservation
(but see comments on soil conservation
benefits in Annex 24)                           11
No separate benefit from soil conservation         6
?rices increased 10%                              13
Prices decreased 10%                               8
Phasing advanced one year                         15
Phasing as forecast, wXi-th integrated farming
extended to cover 36,000 ac by Yea~ 13          14.
Yield variation would have about the same effect as price variation.
7.08      The pro&ect would immediately improve crop yields, but the ultimate
goal is to extend integrated farming throughout Lesotho. This will require
fundamental &hanges in Lesothan agriculture which cannot be quickly made. When
they are made, the benefits would be substantial. The rate of return on
integrated farming alone would be within the range 15-20%; but without the
initial step which the project would take, integrated farming is unlikely to
be widely accepted.
Risks Involved in the Project
7.09      The rate of return is most sensitive to timing and every effort
would be made to improve it, with good prospects of achieving such improve-
ment if trained staff become available more quickly than forecast; but
the staffLng constraint and present lack of institutions cannot be ignored
(see paras 4.o16 and 4.17).



- 21 -
7.10      Although adverse factors, such as weather, have been taken into
account in calculating the rate of return, the project would be subject to
many uncertainties that cannot easily be quantified. Success depends, for
example, on overcoming resistance to change in a traditional society, which
would affect the willingness of farmers to accept new techniques, including
enclosure and livestock limitation, and to maintain soil conservation works
against insidious erosion; on persuading tractor operators to use more
efficient methods; on prompt collection of credit, in the light of past
failures. But farmers in the project area show willingness to accept change
and enthusiasm for the project, while Government offers fervent support and
has publicized the project extensively. The chances of success are there-
fore good. The project is extremely iraportant to Lesotho, which has few
alternatives for economic development.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  the Ministry of Works would maintain project roads (4.12),
but soil conservation works would be protected and main-
tained under satisfactory arrangements between project
staff and farmers' associations and chiefs (4.13);
(b) plans for integrated farming, grazing control and stock
limitation would be agreed with IDA prior to implementa-
tion (4.14); and Government would implement existing
legislation in support of mixed farming (4.14);
(c) senior staff, satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed
(5.02) and their terms and conditions of employment would
be agreed with IDA (5.04);
(d) funds for credit to farmers would initially be channelled
through a Project Credit Account, but if transferred to the
Lesotho National Development and Savings Bank, it would be
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (5.09); Govern-
ment would fully support debt collection and promptly
prosecute delinquents (5.13).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  an agreement satisfactory to IDA had been signed by
Government and USAID for the financing of soil conserva-
tion works in project area (4.13);
(b) the Project Manager had been appointed (5.02).
December 31, 1972



a        a



ANNEX 1
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Lesotho and the Project Area
A.  Lesotho
The Pattern of Agriculture
1.        Three ecological zones, Mountains, Foothills and Lowlands, divide
Lesotho and determine the pattern of agriculture. The Mountains are devoted
mainly to summer grazing for most of Lesotho's livestock that, in winter,
graze crop residues and permanent grassland on the Lowlands and Foothills.
In recent years, an increasing area of the Mountains has been cultivated for
wheat and other crops. The Foothills (average altitude 7,000 ft) are
deeply dissected by steeply sided valleys of the drainage system and some
of their cropping land is on steep slopes. The Lowlands (plains around
5,500 ft altitude in the west of the country) are flatter, less divided
by valleys, and have more arable land. Because more people live in them,
they suffer greater pressure on the land and more erosion.
2.        Foothills and Lowlands are cultivated wherever possible, with
patches left to rest only when crop yields become too low or erosion is too
severe, to make cultivation worthwhile. What is not cultivated is unusable
for agriculture, or only usable as permanent grazing. Crops in both zones
are similar, with more wheat and peas in the Foothills and more beans, maize
and sorghum in the Lowlands.
3.        Maize and sorghum comprise 75% of the total cropped acreage, over
half being maize. Beans and peas comprise about 10%, with wheat also 10%,
being planted as a winter crop on land where moisture has been conserved in
fallow during the wet summer months. The remaining 5% is fallow. Beans and
*            peas, with their shorter growing period, are often planted when rains are
late or cultivation has been delayed, giving the farmer a second chance and
somewhat reducing the adverse effect of variable rainfall.  Yields are low
because of continuous cropping, poor seed, late and inefficient cultivation
and lack of phosphates and nitrogen in the soils.
Climate
4.        Mean annual rainfall ranges from 560 mm in the south to 900 mm in
the north; less in the Lowlands, more in the Foothills, and most in the
Mountains. The May/September winter months are dry, and the summer growing
season is October/March (Chart 6799). Distribution is very uneven, as are
annual totals. Tables 1 and 2 give monthly and annual rainfalls for two
stations in or near the project area.



ANNEX 1
Page  2
5O         Tab'es 3 to 5 show monthly rainfalls for years of relative
drought.  'in .i:.f.ch there would be severe reduction in crop yields - the
czit-7-wr'On aeing two or more monthly totals of less thtan 50 nrn in a six-
noz2<-g  w        neniod.  Such adverse conditions occur, on a,zerage , about one
yean in ~''Xl   Hovever, even in a very bad year, four months of rain above
50 U  mr. nent.Iy  alwys occur, so that farmers can plart a catch crop of beans
orf     -r  shi-- t to winter wheat to give themi so-me returr.l  Chart 6800
s.h.os stw;t.- ¢ap. probabilities of rainfall by month for the wet season.
Uhere ∞s a-n 802% probability of a monthly 50 mm or more for mtost of the wet
mnonths.  Hail occurs every year in erratic patches throughout t'he coLntry
and affects most crops to some degree.
6.        Lesotho tem-oeratures vary greatly, with a blgh m-axir-u.u  simmer
57<"Ianda minir'um -110C.  Sub-zero temperatures occur frequently between
Ar.7prII ad September, especially in the Mountains, and have actually been
recf-e'd i"n e7ve  month of the year.  Relative humiditry at :MHaseru ranges
_:ro.m ,r`V  to 71%, lowest in winter, highest in the w ettest spriLng and
sumrer 'm.ot .
.         5The cropping potential varies Detween LowUand and Foothill areas.
iPoothil-1  sois are more fertile and offer a wide choice of orops, However,
slores are s-eeper, communications more difficult, temperatures slightly
lOv-er, and grwot-h periods slightly shorter, thus discounting any appreciable
fai.CJferense i5 yields until higher levels of farming are achktLeved.  Maize,
sorghtu, beans, wneat and vegetables, in that order, are the important crops
both in ac-reage and for food.
8.        Maize is grown as a first crop, beir-, the most important food
cereal, either green or as grain for mnaize flour.  Sorghum i:s second, as
malt for brewing but also as grain for flour.  Sorghum is important also be-
cause  of its slightly shorter growth period and its greater resistance to drought. ^
T s iS poseibly the best and safest crop from an agricultural view point.
'Bea's are grown in the traditional manner as a mixed crop amongst
the t7oio cereea  crops and in small gardens; and also, more recently, in
areaer acreages as a cash crop in pure stands. Dwarf varieties, grown
throughnout Af-rica, are used, with a preponderance of Wnhite Haricot and
fchiga'.n pea bean for export.
-220.     ` I-zeat has been grown for many years in small quantities as a
winter crop.
Vegetables, although not shown in crop statistics, are grown
in enclosed gardens, maize, green beans, potatoes, sweet potatoes and
cabbages being the most popular.  Some fodder is cut for winter in the
foxr:s of maize and bean stover (the stalks after harvesting) and volunteer
blu2e grass.  I'he bulk of crop residues, regardless of ownership, are
cormmunally grazed to the ground at a signal from the cnief, when all live-
stock from the -local traditional villages are turned l oose.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Cultivation
12.       Unlike most African peasant communities, little or no hand
cultivation, apart from some weeding, is carried out. The farmer relies
on the use of work-oxen - either those of his extended family, or those of
an outside owner, usually under some sharecropping system (see Annex 2,
paras 35-38) - or on tractors, owned by private contractors or the small
Government tractor hire agency. About 25% of tractor work is for cash.
13.       Tractors are scarce, as are oxen; the latter are weak after winters
on short commons. Cultivations thus tend to be late and scamped, parti-
cularly on the smaller holdings. This is probably the greatest limiting
factor after lack of fertilizer for good crop yields. Rainfall is erratic
and marginal and crops must make full. use of available moisture in the growing
season. Therefore, early planting of seed, good cultivations to ensure
rain penetration, and weed-free fields to reduce water competition, are
important; but they are seldom achieved and great variability in crop yields
can be seen over the arable areas.
14.       The agricultural population lacks able-bodied males, some 40%
being absent outside Lesotho; but this is balanced to a great extent by
reliance on ox and tractor power, so that the average unit of five acres
can be run with some 150-200 man-days of work per year, a figure within the
reach of a normal family even with able-bodied males away.
Fallow and Moisture Conservation
15.       Previously, cropping was discontinued on worked-out soil which
was left fallow to rest and revert to natural grazing for regeneration.
With the rise in population, less and less land is rested, and progressively
steeper areas are being brought under cultivation. However, some short-term
summer fallowing is practiced when winter crops, such as wheat and peas,
are grown and land is cultivated periodically, but not planted, during the
wet summer to conserve moisture for the winter crop. The same field cannot
normally support two crops in one year due to low rainfall.
Livestock
16.       Environmentally, Lesotho is more suited to livestock production
than crops. The people are stock farmers by tradition and choice, though
they value numbers rather than production.
17.       Some million livestock units have been carried on the grazing
areas and crop residues since the 1940's, with little change in the composi-
tion or in total numbers of effective grazing units (Table 6). This tends
to support the argument that Lesotho has been overstocked for a long time,
with numbers controlled only by drought and starvation.
18.       Livestock are kept in the traditional manner firstly as capital
and for ceremonial and social commitments and only secondly for production.
However, milk is drunk and is in demand. Small stock are occasionally



ANIEX 1
Page 4
slaughtered for food and sold for cash and they provide wool and mohair, the
most important agricultural export, and livestock products.
19.        Tn the suimmer an appreciable migration of livestock, particularly
cattle, takes place to the mountain grazing, with a return at harvest to Low-
land and Foothill villages to graze crop residues and surrounding permanent
pasture. Th-is sytem, with no restriction on numbers, overgrazes the permanent
pastures, denudes the soil cover and causes a large Dart of the erosion to
wi`ch Lesotho IS so prone.
20,       A two-way livestock trade exists with South Africa, young store
animals being imported for fattening (bought by mane worker's savings or
bartered, two to one, for larger animals). Conversely, both young and old
finished animals are exported for fattening or slaughter.
21.       The demand for milk is relatively high in Lesotho, with an annual                I
imDorta-ion of some R 500,000 of dairy products. A few individual cow keepers
supply mi:lk to private buyers in and around Maseru. UN'ICEF has embarked on
a joint program with Government to set up a pasteurizing and packing plant
to supply and process some 250 gallons daily of locally produced milk.
22.        Cattle are a hardy type, being a mixture of European and Afrikander
breeds of the type kept by neighboring South African farmers. The original
humped Zebu cattle have disappeared.
23.        Sheep are also a mixture of hairy indigenous types with a strain
of merino from across the border.  The latter give around 4.5 lb of medium
to poor quality fine wool, depending on the proportion of indigenous blood
in the animals.
24.        Goats are of the Angora type almost exclusively, and are shorn
annually givi.ng about 2.5 lb of mohair per animal (compared with a South
African average of 4-5 lb).   The Ministry of Agriculture runs ram and billy
goat improvement schemes and encourages the formation of wool associations                6
for shearing, grading and marketing of both wool and mohair.  These products
a-re very important to the small farmer. The limiting factor is communal
grazing, w:hich leads to nutritional shortages in bad years and in the winter.
Rational stocking combined with winter feeding, and the use of good rams,
could reduce the presently high lambing losses and probably double production.
B. Project Area
Land Use
25.       The total area of the Little Caledon Watershed and Berea Plateau,
which comprise the project area, is some 300,000 ac.  Of this, it is estimated
that 25% is unusable, 25% suitable for permanent grazing only, and the
remaining 50% a mixture of arable, grazing and eroded, steep or rocky land.
Of the latter 50%, about half (75,000 ac) is suitable for permanent arable
cropping.  A further very approximate 25,000 ac of steep slopes and thin



ANNEX 1
Page 5
poor soils are cultivated, though more suited to permanent grazing. These
proportions vary, depending on the amount and timeliness of the rains, and
the arable land is divided roughly equally between Foothills and Lowlands.
The following is a tabulation (acres):
Category                       Arable   Grazing   Unusable   Total  %
Unusable Land                     -         -        75,000    75,000 25
Grazing Only                     -       75,000        -       75,000 25
Mixture of Arable, Grazing
and Eroded or Rocky Areas    75,000   50,000       25,000   150,000 50
Total           75,000  125,000    100,000   300,000 100
Soils
26.       The project area, with typical Lowlands/Foothills climate (paras 4 -
6), contains a wide range of soils comprising most of the types found in
Lesotho. There are large acreages of Eutrophic Brown soils which are amongst
the best in the country. A broad reconnaissance soil survey was carried out
in 1966-67. 1/ While inadequate for detailed cropping recommendations, it
contains the best available information on soils and land capability.
Acreages of major soil types surveyed within the area are:
Acres     Percent
Lithosols on lava/calcimorphic soils          37,000        14.4
Lithosols on rocks rich in ferromagnesium
materials/eutrophic brown soils             24,700         9.6
Lithosols on sedimentary rocks/sedimentary
0                  rock debris                                107,600        41.8
Eutrophic brown soils/vertisols               45,100        17.5
Lithosols on sedimentary rocks/ferralitic
soils                                        3,000         1.2
Ferralitic soils/lithosols                     3,600         1.4
Claypan soils (Maseru set)                    22,500         8.7
Vertisols of topographic depressions           4,000         1.5
Fersiallitic soils                            10,000         3.9
TOTAL              257,500       100.0
1/   D.M. Carroll and C.L. Bascomb:  "Notes on the Soils of Lesotho".



AN1NEX 1
Page 6
Vege tati±on
27.       The project area is heavily cultivated and grazed with considerable
degradation of the natural vegetation and an almost complete lack of trees.
The area was originally covered with natural sweet veldt grazing dominated
by Red Oat Grass (Themeda triandra) with Cymbopogon, Setaria and Fragrostis
spp. showing at lower altitudes.  With extended overgrazing, poorer annual
grasses of sporobulus, eragrostis and aristida spp. are dominant and cannot
support the quality or quantity of stock, nor provide the soil cover necessary
to minimize soil erosion.  A Blue Grass (paspalum laevitolium) invades crop
lands at harvest time on the better soils, providing cut fodder and grazing
of a good nutritional value. As it readily seeds itself and is aggressive
as well as heavy yielding, it would provide a good start to any program
of fodder provision or grazing for better stock keeping.                                 4
HYYYA2o
28.       Both the Little Caledon and its main tributary, run through the
project area. Together with the many small streams feeding them, they provide
adequate drinking water over the district. Subsurface water is available for
boreholes at around 120 ft with 20% failure rate.  Although silt loads are
high and the rivers show great stream flow variability, there may be opportu-
nities for irrigation of approximately 3,000 ac at the lower end of the
project area; but information is lacking and it is not included in the
project. A nulmber of small earth dams have been built in the area for
stock watering and minor garden irrigation. The sandy, high sodium, valley
soils are unstable and unsuitable for dam construction. The Community
Development Department has a program bringing piped water to villages from
r4vers, borehole or dams, generally powered by windmills. 52 out of 90
villages in the project area are already completed with a further 10 per
annum scheduled for the next three years. This represents one of the
highest water development rates found in African rural areas. The costs runs
around R 2,000 with the village inhabitants producing 25% in cash and 25% as
labor for the water scheme with Government and aid agencies such as OXFAM
producing the balance.
Attached: Tables 1 - 6
Charts 6799(R) and 6800(R).
June 30, 1972



ANNEX I
Tables 1-2
LESOTHO
THA1S BOSIU RURA1 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfall Totals for 50 Years at Maseru
(Mill meters)
1/-________________---Wet Season-Dry-----                      ----      -                Season---______________          ----------Totals----17              2
Uater Year-   Oct,       Nov.      Dec.     Jan.      Feb        K           ,ma    Ma      June      JulY                Sept.       Wet     Drv      W.Year-   C. Year
1920/21       -         -        -         74       139       136        59        35      -         -         _          20         -       56         -            -
1921/22       38       148      187        94        53        14        -         20      45         6        13          2        535      87        623         840
1922/23       84       113        64      135       131        62        40        22      37        18        11         -         633       90       723         512
1929124       25        67        27       76        63       210        16        10       3        -          1         56       488        72       559         580
1924t25       83        80        79       82       147       217        98        64      -         -          4         38        789     108        897         681
1925/26       63        37       32        96        38       116        19        12       9        -         -          21        405       44       449          788
1926t27       78        52        69       82        96       179        11         2      -         19        31          7        569       61       630          515
1927/28       74        39      121       181        87        60        35        -        2        -         10         15        600       29       629          665
1928/29       59        99        80      114        32       123        14        47      46        31        15         99        522     239         761        632
1929/30       21        77      120         37       85       156        84        19       4         1        24          2        562       51        612         741
1930/31       52        48        59      124       110        73       161         2      -         48        -          -         630       51        681         554
1931/32       81       130       68        61        95       102         4        29       2         1        -          40        542       73        616         801
1932/33       29        63      107        26        17        63        26         9       8        12        -           8        334       39        373         537
1932134        5       221      194       330        50       123       130        78      -         21        24         17     1,056       143     1,199          594
1934/35       71      147       122        62        94       156        80        31      16        -         23          8        735       80       815       1,119
1935/36       44        90      152        37       121        75        31        56      -          I        -           1        544       59       613          761
1936/37       86      161        98       150       119        77        18        17       1        10         1         24        710       55        765        671
1937/38       22       104        60       84       176        31        97        14      25         8        14          9        577       72        649         607
1938/39       93        69        81      162       157        39         8        30      -         23        38         10        612      103        716         706
1939/40      127       127       47        33       103        84        70        41       8         7        -          63        595      120        715         774
194C141       22       117       62       173       163        64        97        -       -         18         3         19        702       42        744        616
1941/42       82         1       20       173        75        98        50         6      -         -         53         19        502       80        582         645
1942/43      129       149      145       121        34        48       143        53      -         86        89          6        772      236     1,009          982
1942144      116       213      162       130       102        65         5        25      55        _                    25        797      107        904      1,077
1944/45       57        48       10        77        94       114         5        22      -          2        _          -         408       25        433         529
194'/46       16       43         52      148        27        92        59        52       5         2        -          13        440       74        515         428
1946/47       67        31       63        49       119        72        80         9       2         7        -          62        484       81        565         564
1947 48       94        65      115       135        33       216        83       137      ^         e.2       -          -         743       40        783         678
194E/49       28        29        19       93        70        67        20        25      10         7        -2         19        329       64        394         585
1949/50       60        75       96        77        96       210       161        80      15        36        89         14        777      236     1,013          549
195C/51       36        28      106       132        90        62        51         8       5         2         S         16        508       39        547         953
1951152      113        31       40       178        71        63        17        13       6        47        22         29        516      120        636         561
1952/53       36        88       74        50       145        63       103        16       4        -         14          8        560       44        604         650
1953/54       83      109      .146        51        97       165        23        25       3        -         -          -         676       29        706         744
1954/55        8        82       40       246       172        84        75        30      14        13         1         -         709       61        770         498
195',t56      67        59      172        57       183       136        15        42       2         1        -           9        692       55        747         937
1956/57       56        32      189       156        90        81        48         5      29        13        38        153        654      240        894         726
195,7/58     124      115        78        89       111        55        77        72      -         -         -          29        652      102        755         934
1956/59       17       153       92        79        51        69        95        52      -         44        -           4        559      102        661         700
1959/60       65        86      141        84        65       129        50        11       10       15        29         15        624       83        706         691
196(1/61      93       130        92       54        53       121       101        45       56        8        14          4        648      128        776         729
1961/62        2       125      107        67       249        85        49         4       -        -         -           8        679       12        691         695
196:'/63      22      164        50       193        71        93       106        34      15        25        -           1        703       77        780         694
1960/64       27       173       56        47        62       148        75         6      44        -          3         11        552       66        658         800
1964/65      123        59       92        76        20        34        83         2       25       27        17         31        491      104        595         676
196'i/66      25        52        21      192        71        41        36         4       19       -          2          1        442       27        469         419
1966/67       32        71      122       193        95        88       121        57        6         2        3          4        727       74        801         596
1967/68       83        36        67      120          7      107        81        65        1       11        16          7        504      102        606         761
1966/69       55        16        95        25       76       178        70        64        1       -         17         15        528       99        627         586
1969/70      102        36       46        82        21        22        20         9       18       18        22         43        333      111        444         644
MEAIf         61        88        89       108        91       99        60        28       11        12        13        20        596       86        682         687
STD, DEVY    34         51        46       60        49        51        42        22       15       16        20         27        137       53        160         149
MAXIMUM      129       221       194       130      249       217       161        80       56        86        89       153      1,056      240      1,199       1,119
MINIMUM        2         1        10        25         7        14       -         -        -         -         -          -         329       12       373         419
ROW, (In Proiect AreaSA/                                                                                                                                     Table 2
MeAN          81        99       109      118       114       114        70        37       14        15        17         26        711     111        823         824
STD., DEV.3' 48         59        48        70       53        74        46        28       17        17        25         33       146       61        167         169
MAXIMUM      188       251       242       296      227       425       194       128       78        60       112        152     1,063       282     1,287       1,202
MINIMUM        1         5        34        32        35       22         9        -        -         -         -          -         428      16        536         482
NQTF;_ Decimals Omitted
t October - September.
2t Calendar Year.
3t Standard Deviation
4/ Further information for other stations available from Hydrological Survey Department.
May 5, 1972



a        a



ANNEX I
Tables 3-5
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL IZVELOPHENT PROJECT
Rainfall Pattern in mm
Years of Drought Extracted out of Total Records
Table 3
I. MASERU (11 Years of Drought in 50 Years)
Totafl    Total
Years      Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Jan.    Feb.    March    April    Wet Mo.    Year
1923/24     ?5       67       27        76       63       21.0   16          488        559
1925/26     63       :32      32        96       38       116       19        405        449
1932/33     29       63      107        27       17        63       26        334        373
1941/42     B2        1       20       173       75        98       50         502       582
1944A.5     57       48       10        77       94       114        5        408        433
1945A6      16       43       52      143        27        92       59        440        515
1946/47     67       31       63       49       119        72       80         484       565
1948/49     28       29       19       93        70        67       20         329       394
1965/66     25       52       21      192        71        41       36        442        469
1967/68     83       36       67      120         7       107       81         504       606
1969/70    102       36       46        82       21        22       20        333        444
Average     61       66       69      '106       91        99       60         596       662
Over 50 Yrs. _
II. RC[A (7 Years of Drought in 35 Years)                                             Table 4
19hk/45     46       73       40        85       57       155       15        474        536
1946/47     76       39      118       49       104        27       14         430       540
1948/49     26       51       34      144       1ll       102       23        495        579
1964/65    146       45      115       43        38        31       81        543        644
1965/66     47      105       34      292       126        44       28        679        724
1967/68     72       70       85       40        35       102       39        498        614
1969/70    129       29       77      104        48        25       13        438        547
Average     61       99      10       16         1        114       70         711       623
Over 35 Yrs.
.         III. TEYATEYANENG (16 Years of Drought in 75 Years)                                    Table 5
1902/03     72       27       63        51      107         8       41         456       489
1905/06     16       55       77      123        93       105       28          501      584
1913A4      83       53        -        97       86        41       64         445       536
1919/20     27      119       20      131       112       170       25         607       673
1923/24     36       79       22        79       78       172       11         480       562
1925/26     78       57       53       92        66       133        6         488       554
1931/32     49      151       23        80       94       117        4          521      564
1932/33     15       61       70        23       34        48       27          281      318
1941/42     94        6       28      100        72       114       62          478      572
1944/A5     89       58       13        57       81       146        8         455       485
1945/46     17       48       50       148       17       158       37          478      528
1948/49     35       15       11      129        88        66       19         366       425
1965/66     39      107       20       172       75        58       31          506      536
1967/68     40       50       80        45       43       114       8:1         455      567
1968/69     24       12       65        70      108      .116       55          453      585
1969/70     98       23       51        79       39        24       28         345       467
Average     66       63       96      123        95       100       56          623      714
Over 75 Yrs.
NOTE% Decinal Points Omitted
May 31, 1972



ANNEX 1
Table 6
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURATL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Population
(Thousands)
Livestock /2
Yea          Cattle           Sheep           Goats           Others /            Units
1939           448            1,598            566              119            1,000
1945           437            1,545            542              121              975
1955           408            1,339            655              156,             963
1960           331            1,037            579             138                792
1964           308            1,408            716              128               861
1970           494            1,540            897               92            1,073
Project Area Livestock Populations 1970
Lowlands       8.7 (7.4)/3 19.1 (5.7)       9.8 (3-7)       6.1       29.9
Foothills     13.0 (8.8)   14.3 (5.1)       6.1 (2.6)       3.9       31.3
Total        37.9          44.2            22.2        10.0       61.2
/1  Horses, mules, donkeys
/2  One head of mature cattle or five sheep or goats equals one livestock unit
/3  Male stock in brackets
May 31, 1972



LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Millimeters
Rainfall
100                                                            (Irrigation Research Station, Maseru)
90 _
80 _
70 -
60 -yas  vrg        u
50 _
40 
30-
20 -                                    10 years' average minimum                 4                                                                       /
10                                                                                                                                D DRY SEASON      -
OCT.       NOV.         DEC.        JAN.        FEB.       MAR.         APR.       MAY         JUNE         JULY        AUG.        SEPT.
A-il 9Fi 1Q79



6
0



LESQTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Probability (%) of annual and wet season monthly rainfall at Maseru
(Millimeters-average over 35 years)
ANNUAL TOTAL IN MM    200                251             316            398             501             531             794             1000            1259            1585            1995
MONTHLY TOTAL IN MM   20                  25             32              40              50              63             79              100             126             159             200
99
98   '                                                                ______
90   -  _ __                                                                                     3
00
40
w
00
20
10   -_                   _ _  _ _ _
5.



a         a



ANNEX 2
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sociological Background
A. Social and Religious Structures
1.        The Kingdom of Lesotho, which became independent in 1966, after
nearly a century of British rule, lies more or less in the heart of the
Republic of South Africa. It is the country of the Basotho people who were
welded together by their warrior king and nation founder, Moshoeshoe. About
two-thirds of the country is mountainous, rising up to 3,500 m, and known
as the Highlands or "Maluti"; the remaining one-third is a narrow strip on
the west, known as Lowlands or "Lesotho." Most of the people are in the
Lowlands.
2.        The Basotho (singular, Mosotho) are a Bantu-speaking people, and
their main groupings and institutions are as follows: Kingship, Nation,
Chieftainship, Clan, Village, and Family. The most important political
institution is the Kingship and under it, Chieftainships. These institutions
are traditional and ascriptive in character, i.e., except for the village,
which is a territorial grouping, most of them are kinship groups into which
people are born. There are also non-kinship groups to which the Basotho
belong, such as the Church and voluntary associations of a cooperative
nature; these are very important for development in general.
The Nation
3.        The nation is essentially a political grouping and is composed
of all who acknowledge the authority of the King and the political authority
of the present Government of Lesotho. The King is the secular and religious
representative of the nation, which vests him with mystical credentials of
authority. He is the head of the judicial and political system and the
trustee for the land and other natural resources of the country.
4.        In the traditional view, Basotho domicile in Lesotho automatically
means political adherence and loyalty to the King. Basotho men and women
temporarily outside Lesotho, working in the mines and on the farms in the
Republic of South Africa, are also clearly understood to be the King's
subjects and they pay their taxes to Lesotho.
5.        The Basotho are patrilineal, i.e., they trace descent through the
male line. Inheritance is also traced patrilineally. Children, therefore,
acquire nationality througn their fathers. Other people may acquire nation-
ality by admission into the country and by the formal granting to them of a
residential site and their payment of local taxes.



AN4NEX 2
Page 2
Chieftainship
6.        The country is divided under the King into districts, sub-districts,
and villages. Each district is administered by a chief and its sub-districts
are administered by a sub-chief. The sub-districts are also divided into
villages presided over by headmen,  The chiefs, sub-.hiefs and headmen,
while not part of the civil service, are officers of His Majesty's Govern-
ment and their positions, duties, powers and prerogatives were established
by the Chieftainship Act No. 22 of 1968. As their general functions, they
are expected to "aid and maintain the King and His Government of Lesotho;
and subject to their authority and direction, to serve the people in the
areas of their authority, to promote their welfare and lawful interests...."
One of the most important functions of the chief is to allocate land for
building, pasture and cultivation to all people who 'ive under his iurisdic-
tion.                                                                                      4
The Clan
7.        The Basotho are divided into clans.  These are social groupings
distingu.ishable by name and also, sometimes, by emblems and other cultural
form.s. Clans have different status. Ordinarily, pride of Dlace is given
to the politically dominant Koena, the clan of the King, but there are local
claims of seniority made, for example, by the Tlokoa who do not admit the
ascendancy of the Koena in their own area. In practice, the question of
seniority seldom arises, and when it does, it is generally settled by
amicab le agreement.
8.         Clanship is an attenuated fictitious form of kinship and clansmen
believe they are descended from a common ancestor. It is difficult to
estimate the significance of clan affiliation among the Basotho since it is
unobtrusive and enters subtly into many types of relationships.
The Vil lage
9.         The village is an important terri4torial social group and comprises             I
all families which settle together under a village headman., chief or sub-
chief. Villages vary in size, ranging from two or three families, primarily
or wholly of kinsmen, to those having 400-500 unrelated familiesc  The
average size is about 30 to 50 families. Small villages are situated mainly
in the Highlands and intrusive river valleys, where arable lands are
scattered and suitable sites for large settlements are rare. Large villages
are in the Lowlands and open plateaux.  Most reflect their environment -
the simple lines of houses, their patterns and curves taking their shape
and color from the rocky landscape.
10.       Villages are normally permanent and some have oeen in theIr
present location for many years.  They are moved only as a result of some
disaster, such as frequent lightning strikes or some epidemiic. The village
itself is divided into households, mostly extended families, although
nuclear families are also found. Many villages have a school, a cnurch and



kNNEX 2
Page 3
a court, which is open. Practically every village has one or more cattle
kraals where calves, small stock, and such are kept overnight, and occasion-
ally there may be a covered stable for horses. Except for milking cows and
oxen during the plowing season, all cattle are kept on mountain grazing
during the summer.
11.       The village, like the clan and family, is important in Lesotho
life because it is one of those institutions which shields a man and helps
him to ease the adversities of life. It is a cushion against the in-
calculable variability in the social world of human relations and against
the periodic shocks of disasters such as follow failure of the rains and
consequent drought and famine. It is also a natural unit of cooperation
on a territorial and non-kinship basis and has advantages in terms of the
project, for on it could be based a unit for the organization of Farmers'
Associations through which credit could be given.  Social sanctions within
the village would be strong enough to make a defaulting farmer mend his ways,
for the villagers would want to avoid the stigma attaching to a defaulting
village. Social motivation could also develop inter-village competition,
in which villages would vie for first place as the most progressive in adopt-
ing proposed methods of improving agriculture.
The Family
12.       The family is perhaps the most important, because it is the most
intimate form of social grouping. There are two types of family structure
which must be recognized:  the nuclear family consisting of father, mother
and children, and the extended family - in Africa a much more important and
pervasive form - most often consisting of a man and his widowed mother,
unmarried brothers and sisters, his married brothers and married sons with
their wives and children, his wife or wives and all their children.
13.       What is important in this extended family structure is not neces-
sarily the numbers involved as much as the network of social relations,
reciprocal obligations and responsibilities, which becomes important for
social, political, economic and religious activities. The significance
also lies in the fact that the extended family is a corporate group, owning
property such as lands, cattle and goats together and also cooperating in
production and consumption. The extended family is the unit of production
and, as such, all its members (who may be members of nuclear families) pool
their capital resources (money, cattle, goats, sheep, donkeys, land and
agricultural implements) and their labor, and benefit from a common leader
who assumes the position of manager.
14.       It is this elementary form of cooperation and mutuality which
clearly is the basis of the growing tendency towards communal agriculture
in Lesotho and which has become the pattern for village communities.
Wise developmental policy would be able to build on this traditional
organizational strength by providing the managerial support it requires and
giving it proper direction by adapting the traditional institutional
structure to modern imperatives of technology and a market economy.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Marr7age
15.        Marriage in Lesotho, as in many parts of Africa, requires "bohali"
or bride-wealth, which is given by the bridegroom's people to the family of
the bride.  According to Basotho 'Law and custom, a marriage, is not valid
and the children not legitimate without it.  Bohali is a consideration for
two sacrifices which the bride's family makes:  the loss to her group,
ta) of an :important economic producer, and (b) of her ability to strengthen
the group by adding her children. Both tnese benefit tne husband's family
after marriage.  It is calculated on the average of 20 head of cattle, 10
head oF sheep or goats, one horse and one ox. For royal personages and rich
families, "'bonalil" is 30 head of cattle and the rest as abcve.
The Cnurch
16.       The Christian churches have a firm hold in Lesotho and have                      ]
become important institutions for change and development.  Education and
health were pioneered by missionaries and the Roman Catholic Church is
particu';Larly strong in the Roma Val-ley within the project area.  Besides
setting up churches and mission stations nationwide, tney have also estab-
lished schools.  The University at Roma was started by the Roman Catholic
Church, and i t claims as its members the King and most of the members of
the Cabinet. Second in strength, as measured by numbers and total invest-
ment in the country, is the Lesotho Evangelical Church, followed by the
Anglican Church.                                                 4
17.       Not only are the churches involved in education and health but
they are also very active in cooperative work and irn agriculture.  The
Machekxoaneng and Phuthiatsana Development Scheme, for example, is run by a
Roman Catholic nun, Rev. Sister Yvonne Maes of Mazenod Teacher's Training
College.  The churches, therefore, have a part to play in the project, not
only as eispensers of information, but as providers of examples of agricul-
tural chalnge.
B. Land Tenure and Related Problems
Rlihts of Tenure
18.       Consideration of land tenure is crucial for Lesotho agricultural
development of any kind. All land belongs to the nation, with the King as
Trustee.  He controls its exploitation and distribution and delegates his
authority to his subordinates in the Chieftanship hierarchy. Every member
of the nation is entitled to a share of land for building, pasture and
cultivation. This right of the Basotho to land is embodied in The Laws of
Lesotholi, Law No. 8, which states:  "All chiefs and headmen must by law,
provide people living under them iAth lands to cultivate." The right is
usufructual, not of ownership--land is neither bought nor sold, nor may it
be bequeathed. Rights the Basotho enjoy are:



ANN1EX 2
Page 5
(a) Public Rights. These are rights to such commodities
as thatching grass, reeds, wood, water, building
materials on the public domain, and to pasture;
(b)  Extraneous Rights.  Traditionally, Basotho law and
custom, which were concerned exclusively with
subsistence food production, made no allowance for
traders, schools, missions and industry.  It became
necessary, however, with the coming of British colonial
rule, to make provision for this kind of land use and
land right. The understanding, when these extraneous
rights are granted, is that when the activity for which
the land was specifically given ceases, the land will
revert to the King and be available for redistribution.
(c)  Private Rights.  Theoretically, arable land holdings are
limited to three good lands per household, one for wheat,
one for maize and one for sorghum. They are tacitly
assumed to be equal in size although in actual fact,
they vary considerably.  The arithmetical average holding
is between 5 and 6 acres per household. It is in the
area of arable land tenure that individual rights come out
clearly. The rights of an individual farmer to the lands
allocated to him for farming are recognized only during
particular seasons when he has crops on it. He is allowed
exclusive rights to his crops and to the land, only until
the crops have been harvested. After harvesting, his
exclusive rights cease, for the crop stover (residues)
and grass cover become grazing fodder, open to all
livestock of the people resident in his village or in his
ward. What was private agricultural land now becomes
common pasture. The farmer is allowed to cut off the maize
or corn stalks if he wishes to feed his cattle in his cattle
kraal, but if he leaves the stalks standing in the field
after harvest, he cannot keep other farmers' cattle from
grazing on what has then become common pasture.
19.       While some doubts have been cast on security of tenure under this
system, most authorities on Lesotho land tenure concur with the view that
while "rights of tenure are less than full ownership . .   they give satis-
factory and secure title; and are admirably designed to meet the needs of
the community. The holder has the right of occupation and use of land for
his lifetime. And he may not 'be deprived of his place or fields without
good reason"' (Ashton, p. 147). Two valid reasons are recognized among
the Basotho for loss of lands: namely, the possession of surplus lands
(not crop surpluses) and change in political allegiance.  Another reason,
which seems somewhat exaggerated, is "failure through continual absence or
insufficient reason for successive years properly to cultivate or cause to
be cultivated the land or lands allocated." In practice, a man's extended
family is nearly always available to cultivate his fields and it seems
doubtful whether there are many cases of failure to cultivate.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
20.       A custom. of very recent origin is the allocation of garden plots,
i.e., odd pieces of land close to villages, dongas or river banks on which
to grow vegetables. These garden plots usually measure from a few square
yards to about an acre and quite frequently lend themselves to irrigation.
Thei7 are in the area of private rights and are very speciaal and perhaps
significant in that land rights in them persist throughout the year, in
contrast to arable acreage allotments, .which seasonally revert to public
grazing.  Plots can be enclosed and farmers, free from traditional pressures
and inhibitions, can grow whatever they like on them and even experiment with
non-traditional approaches. Thus, a precedent has been established for
year-round uninterrupted land rights and for enclosure, which are normally
discouraged.
Problems of Existing Land Tenure
21.       Wknile existing land tenure wouuld be acceptable for limited crop                  4
improvemnent programs, it is an impediment to more fundam}ental development
because i t adversely affects land use and, in particular. the grazing of
cattle, rotation of crops and soil conservation.  If improved agriculture
and soil conservation are to be practiced, it is clear thaat radical changes
in land use are called for, but it iLs equally clear that these changes
cannot be forced because they involve very deep-seated cultural norms
and prejudices. The problems are part.icularly intractable because they
involve livestock (cattle, goats and sheep).
22.       'The emphasis on "use value," w SThich we find so stroingly entrenched
in land tenure, is also present in the people's attitude toward cattle.
'Livestock are raised for subsistence and to serve as reserves of wealth
for use in times o f great need. To owr lasqrge nu-mbers of cattle, regardless
0of quality, is very important ir a subsistence economy, especially in a
country like ' esotho that suffers from chronic droughts during which cattle
die in large numbers.
Possible Solution - Integrated Farming                                                       4
23b.      Wile to chlange this situation is admittedly difficult, it is not
impossible. WithiFn the project area, land would be available where holdings
are 1large a-nd livestock relatively few.  It would be possible, therefore,
to carry out a program  (described in Anne.x 5, Part B) with a small group
of farmers on land which the chief (aand this would have to be the most impor-
tant chief in the Roma district) would make available for controlled grazing
and crop rotation. The chief and Government would be asked to permit fencing
of grazing land for rotational grazing, but the group would also have to be
willing to keep its own stock from comimon pastures; otherwise the scheme
would be unfair to other farmers.
24.        The farmers would also have to agree to stock limitation to con-
form witth the professionaLly assessed carrying capacity of the givern area.
This would present very few problems if the program were 4In the nature of a
Cooperative or Farm Association. There would need to be a program manager,
h-ired by or on behalf of the farmers, and he would run the program as a



ANNEX 2
Page 7
commercial concern. This group of progressive farmers might then become
the model for the rest of the project area, and indeed for the country as
a whole. The most revolutionary aspects would be enclosed pasture and stock
limitations, which would be breaks from traditional cattle-keeping attitudes.
If the cattle were owned by an Association whose members were unrelated,
the ritual significance of the cattle would be completely removed.
25.       Two objectives would be immediately achieved:
(a) those farmers would be identified, among the Basotho and in
the project area, who would be prepared, not only to
accept intellectually the need and possibility of change,
but would be willing to take the necessary risks - a
nucleus of these farmers already exists and they are often
spoken of as progressive farmers; they would be the social
catalysts and exemplars in their society;
(b) an associational or cooperative form would be encouraged
and indeed recommend itself to Government because
this is the way Government believes agricultural develop-
ment should best be organized; it would also build on a
deep-seated cultural tradition of communalism but modernized
by removing traditionalism associated with kin-based
groupings, with their domination by family heads and
inhibition against any kind of business-oriented under-
taking; the manager would be an integral part of this
modernization and would need to provide the motivation and
entrepreneurial spirit which the Association would need
to make it a commercial success.
Sharecropping
26.       Despite the general law and custom which recognize every indivi-
dual's entitlement to three lots of arable land, deliberately fragmented to
spread out evenly the advantages and disadvantages of soil, rainfall and
natural hazards, many Basotho do not own any lands at all. This is because
land is limited. One of the ways in which landless people enjoy temporary
rights to use lands is by sharecropping with a landholder who is willing to
do so for one or some of the following reasons:
(a) he has no oxen, tractor, or implements for
farming;
(b) he does not have the necessary inputs such as
seed, fertilizer and labor for cultivation;
(c) his lands are too far from his home and he is
willing to allotw a man whose home is near them to
be a sharecropper with him; or
(d)  he is away in the mines and warts someone to farm his
lands and supply all the inputs.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
The sharecropper (who could be another farmer or, more likely, a contractor)
would have the necessary ox and tractor power, implements, seed and labor.
There are variations in the sharecropping relationship. The contractor,
for example, may provide all the inputs, be wholly responsibile for pro-
duction, take all the risks, and at narvest time take two of every three
bags of the produce. The extent of the practice can be gathered from the
fact that, of the 155,287 landholdings surveyed in 1960, 27,879 (18%)
reported sharecropping.
27.      IWhile an easy way out for the indigent farmer, sharecropping has
several drawbacks.  Those engaged in it do not take the interest they should
in land conservation.  This is particularly true of the contractor.  The
landholder, on the other hand, makes no effort to acquire the necessary
implements and inputs for effective farmi-ng. The system tends, therefore,
to encourage exploitative agricultural practices, in which farmers take out
of the soil but do not return anything by way of crop residues or manure.
28.       It is generally believed in Lesotho that sharecropping is
exploitative in the economic sense in that it encourages the rise of a
class of agricultural capitalists and therefore economic domination of
the many by the few. Although sharecropping might benefit the poor
farmer, it cannot be the basis for progressive farming because it is
difficult for agricultural extension officers to instruct landholders who
do not operate their farms.
C. Migrant Labor
29.       Lesotho's economy and social structure have been deeply affected
by enDloyment of Basotho beyond its borders.  Thousands leave the country
yearly to take industrial, commercial, mrJ1ing and farming employment in
South Africa, and they contribute as much, if not more, to the development
and material prosperity of Lesotho as all the other economic pursuits of
the Basotho together.  Migration also creates social problems which are as
ser4ous as they are neglected, such as the desertion of wives by men who
take new wives in South Africa and fail to support their Sotho wives, or the
venereal infection which the men bring back.  Women go to the neighboring
Orange Free State to work on farms durinig the harvest, while others go
to work as domestic servants.  Others agaWn, leave to join their husbands in
South African towns.  The men mostly work in the gold mines, though with the
enormous increase in industrial development in South Africa, imany have found
lucrative industrial jobs too. While the mines do not pay as well as industry,
they offer food and accommodation and engage workers on contract for a definite
period, after which men can return home.
30.       About nine labor recruiting companies operate in Lesotho and
they hire about 40% of the able-bodied men.  The number recruited each month
during 1971 was:



INNX 2
Page 9
Month           Number           Percent
(of Year Total)
January               12,371             14.0
February               9,693             10.9
March                  7,553              8.5
April                  6,322              7.1
May                    5,492              6.2'
June                   5,873              6.6
July                   5,430              6.1
August                 7,279              8.2
September              7,377              8.3
October                6,634              7.5
November               7,747              8.8
December               6,873              7.8
The plowing season is September/November (early DecemDer for some crops)
and it is clear that peak migration occurs soon thereafter. The least
migration occurs during winter, when granaries are full. Thlis is also the
period of much social activity when marriages and other festivities take
place. The plowing season is preceded by increased migration because, by
then, granaries have been depleted, partly as a result of winter feasting,
but also because money is needed to buy seed and fertilizer for the plowIng
season.
31.       Migrant laborers' wages generate demand for non-agricultural
products and also strengthen domestic savings potentia'l for investment
financing (Lesotho First Five-Year Development Plan, 1970/71-1974/75,
p. 12).  However, migrant labor poses serious problems for agricultural
development, for the quality of farming, if carried out only by women with
other responsibilities and by children, uould be likely to suffer and lead
to progressively poorer yields.
32.          Government officials appreciate the importance of migration since
there is no alternative employment in Lesotho.  They are, in fact, concerned
that migration may be officially pegged by South Africa and they would
prefer a liberalization of South African policy in this regard.
33.       It is doubtful if the project would have much effect on migration.
Medhanized farming in the project area, as elsewhere in Lesotho, needs
relatively little labor. However, more thought clearly needs to be given to
training of women in farming and management, for despite the legal fiction
that they do not have authority, they are frequently the "de facto" operators
and managers of theIr husbands' lands and they make all kinds of decisions
every day, playing important roles in agriculture and in the administration
of farmers ' associations.
34.        Wlorking with and through women might well be one easy way of
attacking the conservative agricultural practices and social structures of
Sotho society, for women have a vested interest in changing the time-honored
laws and customs, which have been the main instruments of their social
disability.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 0
D. Social Factors That Impede Development
Poor Cultivation and Grazing Methods
35.       Certain factors in Lesotho agriculture tend to encourage con-
servatism and retard progress. The first and most important, perhaps, is
the ignorance of the Lesotho farmer about some of the elementary require-
ments of good farming. To begin with, livestock, which are an important
part of agricultural activity, are owned individually but the resources
necessary for livestock production - land and grazing - are held communally.
This raises one of the crucial issues, for on it hinges the whole matter
of soil erosion, land conservation, rotation of crops and all problems
related to land use.
36.       Ignorance also perpetuates exploitative use of land resources
in cropping and grazing and leads to a naive belief, especially among
peasants and chiefs, that there is plenty of land "out there" (and this is
often in the far away mountains) and a persistent belief, even among civil
servants, that the cattle population has decreased or is decreasing.
37.       It may be true that droughts periodically kill many beasts but
there are several factors which could be, but are not being, controlled.
First, there has been an increase in human population and, though very few
farmers are large livestock holders, the increased number of farmers with two
or three cattle and a few sheep could well balance the decreased number of
livestock held by more enlightened owners of larger herds. Besides, money
sent back from the South African mines is almost always invested in cattle,
especially cows, which have natural increase. Further, there is no evidence
to suggest that cattle are not coming in from across the border, despite
the firm belief by the civil servants tnat they have stopped their coming.
Farmers and chiefs affirm that they can always bring in cattle from outside.
Social and Religious Attitudes Toward Livestock
38.       Livestock - cattle, sheep, goats and horses - have an intricate
web of emotions and attitudes woven round them, arising from their close
association with social institutions like marriage and religion. Any
attempt to change these sentiments and attitudes is bound to meet with
very strong resistance, because all proposed changes have multi-dimensional
implications for the people and their life-styles and non-6conomic factors
are very important. To ask men to reduce their stock, or to send their
cattle to the abattoir, is not seen by them as advice which will lead to
better farming or to higher economic benefit but as an attack:
(a) on their ability to obtain wives either for themselves
or some members of their families (para 15);
(b)  on their religion because cattle, sheep and goats are
important in propitiating ancestors and for other ritually
important social functions; and



ANNEX 2
Page 1 1
(c) on their social power and prestige, for cattle, sheep
and goats, especially in large numbers, give a man
social standing and are a source of satisfaction,
because they are marks of achievement and visible
wealth.
39.       Small stock are also very important as everyday currency and are
often used in sale or exchange for such things as school fees and school
books for children, clothes for the wife and children, and government taxes.
They can, therefore, be regarded as a man's current account in the bank and
as an important cushion against all sorts of disasters.
Theological Approach to Agriculture
40.       Another very important principle for the Basotho, as in African
thought in general, that has far-reaching implications for their life-
styles and for all their social, political and economic activities has to
do with the way they perceive the world, i.e., as controlled by two
opposing forces: the good and the evil. Man's main preoccupation, they
believe, is to maintain and strengthen the good forces which bring good
health, good crops, and rains in the right season, and to fight and suppress
evil forces. which bring about sickness and disease, droughts, poor harvests
and starvation. The forces of good and evil, they also believe, can be
manipulated by man by the use of magic.  Good magic and ritual, which are
controlled by the medicine men and religious leaders like the King, priests
and diviners (miscalled witch doctors), bring about abundant life and crops,
while bad magic or witchcraft and sorcery, which are controlled by evil
men and women called witches and sorcerers, destroy life and cause droughts
and starvation. The concepts of witchcraft and sorcery represent the
principle of evil in man's life, and they are often invoked in times of
crisis and disaster.
41.       Fronm the foregoing it will be seen that, for the majority of
Basotho, agricultural successes and failures, especially extreme ones, are
explained in theological terms, and responsibility for success or failure
is projected onto the supernatural and not onto man himself, This, in
essence, is the "'magical mentality", which rejects scientific explanations
for natural and social phenomena. Thus, if my crops fail and my neighbor's,
with whom I share the same soil and climatic conditions, flourish, I do not
explain it in terms of good or bad farming but in terms of religious ideas.
This explains also why there is so much magic and ritual connected with
agricultural and even political, activity. Fields and seeds receive ritual
treatments or seeds are taken to church so that they may be blessed by the
priest.  There is also the rain-making ritual; the "doctoring" of fields to
produce bumper crops; or the magical treatment of fields and crops as
protection against birds, insect pests or hailstorms.
42.       The churches, in their secular and educational activities, are
doing much to dispel these beliefs, but schools do not offer enough purpose-
ful and significant scientific education.  Nor are there, in the curriculum
of the agricultural colleges, courses in the sociology of the area,



ANNEX 2
Page 12
particularly the sociology of production. Such courses would deal with
social institutions that need to be developed; social attitudes necessary
for development; and a frank discussion of the nagical aspects of producticn.
Local students could set up demonstration plots, bring all the productive
medicines and invite all the necessary functionaries for agricultural
ritual. Side by side with these could be plots wnere scierntific agriculture,
which did not depend on magic and religion, would be demonstrated.  Such
demonstrations would impress, not only the young farmer, but also the older
farmer who would come for special educational visits and refreshler courses.
43.       The above theological factors tend to be played down by governments
but they are, nevertheless, to be contended with. They frequently snarl.
development because little or no attention is paid to them. They are
problems which cannot be handled by legislation, but only by a long process
of persuasive education.                                                                   4
January 2, 1973



ANNEX 3
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABU BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil Conservation
A. General
1.        Soil conservation has been defined as the achievement of orderly
movement of soil, at levels consistent with continued use of the land
for productive purposes.  Fundamentally, this is accomplished by pursuing
a form of agriculture suited to the area.  Basic principles involve:
(a) performing the minimum cultivation or working of the soil
consistent with efficient production of crops;
(b) using rotation systems to assure that humus and plant nutrients
are retained; and
(c) exercising control of livestock.
2.        Soil conservation may also be assisted by physical actions, such
as cultivation in strips and across, not down slopes, so that surface
water is held by grass or clods and allowed to slow down and penetrate; and
movement of soil to form terraces or diversion ditches so that, again,
surface or runoff water is collected and diverted slowly across slopes to
allow penetration, with the excess water being safely conducted down
grassed and protected waterways so that its amount and speed does not cut
into and carry off the soil in ever widening and deepening gullies.
0              3.         Soil conservation is high on the list of Lesotho's national
priorities. Conservation of soil, water and related resources is essential
if the Basotho are to continue to enjoy the natural resource base for sustained
productive use.  This will mean immediate construction or repair of physical
works and, as speedily as they can be accepted, changes in the use of land
and in grazing and farming practices.
B. Causes of Erosion in Lesotho
Climatic Conditions
4.        More than 70% of Lesotho's annual rainfall occurs in the six
months October-March. Rainfall occurs mostly in sharp, torrential downpours,
which fail to penetrate the soil quickly or deeply and cause runoff that
carries away soil. Adverse climatic conditions, including drought and



ANNEX 3
Page 2
occasional hail, make farming risky and farmers reluctanit to innovate and
invest.  This reluctance is reinforced by long-established traditionLs of
land use.
Soils
5.        Very little information is available about soil types except in
general surveys.  The broad reconnaissance soil survey carried out by
D.M. Carroll and C.L. Bascombe in 1966 and 1967, "Notes on t4he Soils of
Lesotho," contains the best available information.
6.        Soils in the project are varied and some, especially in the low-
lands, are highly erosive.  Included are:  cave sandstone sediments,
Molteno beds, and most difficult of all, the shales of the Beaufort series.
Many soils in Lesotho have high sodium content and are unstable wlhen
wet.  They act more as a slurry than a solid soil, causing physica,   works                 4
on tnem to have a high failure rate.
7.        Overgrazing, improper cultivation, livestock trampling and
drought have resulted in much of the topsoil eroding away.  The remaining
soil is low in organic matter, a dearth of which contributes to erodibility
and low crop production. Thus, when soil has a reduced capacity to hold
water for plant use, the full effects of added fertilizers are lost.
8.        All the major crops grown in Lesotho are annual. Apart from
wheat, they provide inadequate spring and early summer cover ror soil pro-
tection.  Removal of all residues by traditional comunal grazing causes
excessive erosion rates. This cycle of overgrazing and soil depleting
crops grown year after year has resulted in a serious erosion problem.
C. Previous Soil Conservation Programs
9.        After the unprecedented drought of 1932-33, followed by massive
erosion from the subsequent rains, a physical soil conservation program
began in earnest in 1936 with a grant of T£160,200 (US$4QO,OOO) from the
British Colonial Development Fund.  This program resulted in substant'al
reduction of field soil loss; it also caused most farming in Lesotho to be
carried out on the contour, which helped reduce erosion. However, it did
not attempt to alter traditional grazing management and/or cropping systems
and was not as effective physically as more moderni works can be.  It was
therefore only partially successful, and erosion, though checked, was not
cured and contirnued at an unacceptable rate.
10.       As of January 1, 1967, the following works had been installed
in Lesotho:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Terraces                                  27,891 miles
Dams                                         787
Buffer Strips                            188,218 acres
Diversions                                 4,067 miles
Gullies Demarcated                         5,658
Meadow Strips (Grass Runways)              1,409 miles
Reclamation Beaconing                     14,040 miles
Acres Protected                          547,423 acres
It is also reported that large numbers of trees (4.5 million) had been
planted in 1968, though little protection was apparently afforded them
since few survive.
11.       Part of the lack of effectiveness of the program was due to lack
of in-volvement of rural people and improper management of structures and
livestock - terraces not adequately maintained, grass strips narrowed,
cropping practiced over terraces, and livestock overgrazed on gullies and
terraces. More importantly, no effort was made to relate erosion control
to conservation farming practices and its potential for long-term  income
benefits. The solution to soil conservation problems is inexorably linked
with land and livestock management and with integrated cropping systems
designed to protect land as well as produce income. While these concepts
are difficult to deal with in Lesotho, the project would create a favorable
environment for their understanding and acceptance by Government, chieftancy
and rural people,,
D. Project Implementation
12.       Implementation of project conservation will involve a heavy com-
ponent of new construction of terraces, drop structures, grassed waterways,
etc. as well as repair and maintenance of existing facilities. The project
would work with farmer groups to emphasize that maintenance of these
0             structures, and their protection from damage due to livestock grazing
or improper cultivation are. essential to their effectiveness.
13.       As areas are selected for treatment, the conservation staff would
first analyze soil, design the diversion terrace system, waterways and drop
structures and then initiate construction. Grass seeding and tree plantings
would be carried out as needed,
14.       An overall agricultural development and soil conservation plan
would be produced for each main market area as developed, with two being
built in Year 2 and one each in Years 3 and 4. The plan would show the
position of roads, soil conservation works, market places and tree planting
areas. It would also detail and explain the associated farming developments
such as supply and amount of seeds and fertilizer and dates required, the
cultivation program and tractors required and the numbers and location of
participating farmers.



`M.NEX 3
Page 4
15.       The plan would oe formulated by staff of a3ll project departments
to cover all aspects of project development, including soil conservation,
and would be under the control of the project maanager. Soil conservation
aspects would be particularly important in the Integrated Farming Program
(see Annexes 5, 17, and 23) by wnich, hopefully, many of the present farming
practices would be changed to improve, not only the farmer's situation, but
also permanent land use and erosion status of the area.
16.       Within the project area, a variety of practices and treatments
would be employed. These include, but may not be limited to>
(a)  Rural Roads.  250 miles of 12-foot-wide rural access roads,
in general allied to construction of diversion terraces;
(b)  Diversior Terraces.  1 ,040 miles of grass-covered di-version
terraces, designed to lead off excess water above gully heads                 I
or to provide protection for existing terraces on sloping fields
by diverting runoff to waterways;
(c)  Drop Structures.  600 rock structures to allow excess run-
off from diversion terraces to be delivered to a water.wav or to
a stabilized gully where it can be handled in a controlled
fashion,
(d)  Terraces.  3,000 miles of existing, or new, terraces and
grass stripped cover to be repaired, regraded or cons tructed
as required;
(e)  Multi-Purnose Dams.  20 earth dams on natural waterways to
provide for floodwater retardation, garden irrigation, stock
water supply, village water. and fish farming;
(f)  Grassed Waterwavs   150 miles of natural or constructed
waterways or outlets to be shaped with aDpropriate grass or other
structure; these would be mostly eroded gullies, some don to                  6
bedrock, with steep bare sides, a costly and time-conswuing,
but key part of the reclamation process;
(g)  nat    tdai            An integrated farminig area of about
5,000 acres, with particular care in so11 analysis and land
use planning; advice would also be given to farnmers on
treatment of terraces, watert,2ays, grazing areas and improved
farming practices.  A close liaison would be maintained with
the research section, training and extension staff, to
ach'ieve an integrated project drive to ensure this program's
success (see Annex 9);
(h)  Fenoing.  15 miles of fencing to protect especially hazardous,
highly critical installations, e.g., to protect a stabilized
waterway and drop structure leading runoff into a stabilized
gully where grazing and trampling by cattle could easily
result In serious and costly damage to the system until
vegetati ve cover is assured;



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(i) Tree Planting. 1.5 M trees to be planted to assist in erosion
control and, when mature, to be used as firewood and as
construction material: seedling or rooted cuttings to be
grown by contract, costing about RO.02 each at the nurseries,
and to be planted and watered by local people or farmers'
associations, or possibly by the Food for Work Program.
Aerial Photograph,y
17.       A new set of aerial maps would be produced at a scale of 1:20,000
which can be enlarged to provide 1:5,000 planning maps. These maps would be
needed to assist in preparation of overall area plans for major roads,
farm access roads, physical layouts for soil conservation works, soil
survey and classification, land use programs and land tenure registration.
Relationship to Project
18.       Soil conservation techniques, both mechanical and structural, as
well as those related to farming practices and management, are an integral
part of the project. Conservation staff would be involved in extension,
research and particularly in the integrated farming program, where the
principal goal is to reduce soil losses to acceptable levels, suitable for
long-term resource protection (about 5 tons/ac/year) while simultaneously
increasing the total agricultural productivity of the land.
Training
19.       The training responsibilities of the conservation component would
rest with the Project Manager advised by the Soil Conservation Division and
would be part of the overall project program:
(a) General. The conservation component of the project would
provide:  "on the job" training to counterpart officers; USAID
external training grants (48 months during life of project); and
a substantial training impact on the regular Lesotho Soil
Conservation service staff (the project's conservation component
would be larger than the Ministry's regular programs).
(b) Field Extension Staff. Conservation officers would be required
to prepare materials for and participate in training courses for
extension staff, tractor drivers, tractor owners, and credit!
marketing staff.
(c) Farmer Training. Conservation officers would be required to
prepare materials for and participate in training for
farmers, such training aids/materials to be designed
to encourage farmers to utilize conservation practices
appropriate to their situation.



ANEX 3
Page 6
(d)  Mechanical Training.  Conservation officers would be required
to organize and operate conservation training for tractor
and grader operators and for maintenance staff.
E.  Soil Conservation Benefits
20*       Soil conservation is essential to sustained agrictultural
production in Lesotho. Between 1950 and 1960, according to the 1960
agricultural census, the total number of bags of maize, sorgh£um, wheat,
beans, peas and sunflower produced annually declined from 3,573,000 to
2,737,000. These declines, confirmed by long-term observatiofn, are
largely attributable to ranid depletion of the land base by erosion.
Figures fLor the 1970's vary widely and are not quoted for this reason.
Many observers have stated that the Lesotho problem of fi el_d soil loss,               E
through both sheet and gully erosion, is more serious than anly other in
Africa, or possibly in the world.
21.       Tne estimated cost of the proposed soil conservation and rural
roads program, based on figures in Annex 14, is R 16.4/ac. Assuming a 25-year
life for the structural measures, terraces, dams, etc., the annual cost equals
R 1.8/ac (US$2.27), including interest at 10% and excluding maintenance (which
farmers would largely provide).
22.       The project is expected to touch upon 100,000 ac of arable land
(see Annex 1). ENearly all land in the project area nov has field soil
losses greatly in excess of 5 tons/ac, the acceptive level ,.or long-term,
continued agricultural production. On imuch of the project arabl'e land
field soil loss per acre may now be in excess of 100 tons, a very high and
hazardous level.
23.       One approach to cost/benefit analyslo is to estimate the conser-
vation beneflits possible to the project by assessing the loss in productivity
which is taking place due to gully and sheet erosion and re.lating
this to conservation costs.
Loss of Soil
24.       Gully erosion results in total loss of farm land.  Tt would be
impossible, even under very sophisticated treatments, to expect to grow
cereal grains on or in gullies. Eventually, and with careful controls,
some grass could be produced and harvested or grazed, and trees could be grown
on side walls.
25.       Based on first-hand observation by trained soil conservationists,
and their examinations of aerial photographs taken over the past five years,
gully erosion has substantially increased in the project area. Their analysis
suggests that this might amount to an annual loss as high as 0.5% of the
area per year and that a total of 7% of the overall area in the project is
already lost to gullies. Probably about 0.25% of the total project lalnd
area (250 ac) would be annually lost to new gullies or extensionas or widening
of existing ones if no controls were employed.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
26.       Sheet erosion is much less obvious than gully erosion, but
accounts for a much greater percentage of the field soil loss (and conse-
quent loss of production and income).  It occurs on sloping land through
soil removal by run-off from rains. There may be little or no apparent
change in appearance of the land, but soil and nutrient losses continue over
time, and such erosion eventually results in exposure of the base materials,
either rock or unproductive subsoils, as well as a steady decline in crop
.rields in the interim.
27.       While no valid data exist in Lesotho, a study of the 1960 agri-
cultural census indicated that, as erosion increased to "severe", 1/ yields
decreased, over 10 years as follow:
Ntaize               24%
Sorghum              28%
Wheat                 12%
This study indicates that yields progressively decline as topsoil washes
away and farmring is carried on with decreasinglv nutritive subsoil. It is
also important to note that the study was not continued over time. If it
had been, it could be expected, based on research in other countries, that
losses would have continued with increasing severity.
28.       Professional observers, with conservation and agricultural
experience, are of the opinion that if no controls were employed, not less
than 40% of the project area, or 40,000 ac, would be seriously and con-
tinuously effected by erosion--induced productivity loss.  The remaining 60%
would also suffer loss, but of a lesser degree. Based on the impact of only
the conservation component on production, the following illustrates the
possible effect on this 40,000 ac with productivity declining by 5% per year
from 2 bags/ac to 1 bag/ac:
1. Present Situation (annual)
Land affected ....... ...........    40,000 ac
Initial production level (mixed
cereals) ........                   2 bags/ac
(No fertilizer, credit, etc.)
Value at R 6.00 per bag average        R 480,000
2. Situation in 14 Years With No Controls (annual)
Land affected .................        40,000 ac
Production level (estimated) ..        1 bag/ac
(No fertilizer, credit, etc.)
Value at R 6.00 per bag average        R 240,000
1/   While no specific criteria are provided to define "severe erosion",
it is understood to be on fields subject to general soil depletion due
to sheet erosion,



,AMR6MX 3
Page 8
On this basis the total value lost would be R 6/ac (R 240,000 onr 40,000 ac)
agaiist estimated soil conservation expenditure, to save this value, of
R 1.8/ac or a cost/benefIt ratio, due to conservation/rural roads only, of
about 0.3.
29.       A direct comparison between results from land with and without
phvsical. soi' conservation can be made but it needs large areas o-f land,
.uch of it allowed to erode, as a control;> so it has rarely 6been done and
would, in ainy case, be subject to wide marginas of error.
30.       To separate the benefits of project soil conservatfon from the
benefits of the project as a whole would be extremely diffiecuLt and of
doubtful validity, because interactions take place betweeai the various
factors affecting croD production efficiency.  The project iwculd improve
production through use of fertilizers, better seed, more effective culti-
vations, better farming practices, terrac-ing, training and extension
services. Some of these factors are totallSy unrelated to soi. conser-vatcUon
measures, others are directly affected by them and some are in betweer..
31.       Direct comparisons with and without soIl conser-vation, and with
other variables mostly equal, have been made, especial-y -in the USA, but
results are specif ic to the soil conserved and farming practlce applied. They
indicate probabDle trends, but not magnitudes, that might `,a expected.
32.       It is known that inputs of fertilizer, seed and better cultivation
would raise yIelds immediately in Lesotho.  It is also knoTn that without
sol     servat ion and related farming practices, yields wJ 11 dec-line to
some point slightly above the postulated minimum of I bagfac of Mixedi
cereals.  At what rate, and along which shape of productivity curve the
decline would take -olace, can only be a matter of speculation.  Some areas,
especially in the Lowlands, will decline rapidly without soi'L conservation
meas-ures; others will decline less slowly, though inevitably, Untf i they
reach the poorer condition; and the rate of decline will vary over time.
33.       The table below  l.1ustrates t.he effect of, but cannot be used to
quantify, soil erosion on the 36,000 ac sel-cted for crop development, on
the assurmption that it would cause production to fall fromt 8 to 4 bags/ac over
20 yea-rs:
Land affeced ............      ....         36,0e00 ac
Production per acre with inputs ........   8 bags
Value at R 6/bag . ......................  R 48/ac
Annual cost of inputs per acre .......   R 14
Net annual profit .....................  R 34/ac
Production per acre in twenty years ...   4 bags
Value at R 6/bag .     ..     ........  R 24/ac
A.nual cost of inputs per acre  ..        . R 14
Net annual profit  ................. . R 10/ac
Annual value saved by soil conservation   R 24/ac
Total ....       .    P 864.000 per year



ANNEX 3
Page 9
F. Personnel To Implement Project Soil Conservation
34r       A Senior Soil Conservation Officer and Land Planner, a Soil Con-
servation Engineer and a Field Plant Operator would be employed full time
within the Project Soil Conservation Division and would be provided by USAID,
which would also provide 24 man-months of specialist consultancy services
to assist with forestry, grassland management, soils and conservation
economics. Part-time services, on request, would be provided by Ministry
of Agriculture personnel from the Conservation Division, in which UNDP
aid would provide a Forester and a Junior Level Land Use Planner while
USAID would provide a Senior Conservation Officer and a Soils Specialist,
the former to head the Ministry of Agriculture Conservation Division and
provide essential linkages with the project and other ongoing activities.
35.       The technical/administrative skills indicated in the following
paragraphs would be required from staff to implement the conservation phases
of the project.
Soil Conservation Officer
36.       The Soil Conservation Officer should be an experienced soil
conservationist strong in planning and administration. A rainfed farming
background would be helpful.
37.       Under the direction of the Project Manager, he would be responsi-
ble for the overall soil conservation component of the project. He would
coordinate the activit1es within this discipline. Public relations,
including working with high-level Government officials, are an important
aspect of the position. He would be expected to provide guidance in the
development of policy, procedures, technical material, training aids, broad
goals, scheduling, etc.  He would have overall responsibility for soil
surveys, equipment management, conservation planning, installation of con-
servation practices and road engineering.
Agri cultural Engineer
38.       The Agricultural Engineer must have broad experience in conserva-
tion engineering, including survey, design, and calculation of watershed
runoff.  With the help of a soil scientist, he would assess soils to be
used in construction. He must be able to initiate, supervise and direct all
the work on terraces, diversions, roads, waterways, dams, etc. He would be
expected to develop technical material pertaining to structural measures, as
well as participate in training demonstrations, etc.  He must be able to
work with high-level Government officials, technicians, and farmers. He
would assist the Soil Conservation Officer in getting the structural measures
shown on conservation plan maps. It may be possible to develop 300-500 acres
of land for irrigation; knowledge of land leveling, irrigation water manage-
ment, and related practices would therefore be useful.  A background in-
volving rainfed farming would be helpful. The position would involve staff
supervision.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 0
Mechanical Superintendent
39.       The Mechanical Superintendent would be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of all vehicles and equipment used in soil conservation
and construction of field access roads. He would give training in operation
and maintenance of all types of equipment used in the soil conservation
program.  His job would be to keep equipment running so that work could be
completed on schedule in an orderly manner.  Experience in all phases of
operation and maintenance of farm machinery and earth-moving equipment, with
carryalls, would be important for this Job. He would be in charge of
project equipment facilities.
Other Skills
40. (a) Consultancies
Additional provision would be made for short-term consultancies                 4
(4 months maximum per year) to provide additional technical skill s as
needed.  These are expected to be in disciplines such as forestry, grass-
land management, conservation economics and others as appropriate.
(b) Other Staff
(i)  Three technical officers would be requiree'. for the
project as follows:
N umber
Senior Technical Officer for Conservation           1
Technical Officer, Layout
Technical Officer, Plant                            1
(ii)  Other requirements would include,
Maximum Number
Position                                      Required
Technical Assistants                                8
Draftsman                                                                6
Artisan                                             1
Heavy Equipment Operators                           5
Light Equipment Operators                           6
Mechanics                                           3
Drivers                                             4
Secretary/Chief Clerk                               1
Labor/Watchman                                     10
Clerk/Storeman                                      4
Total                                        43
August 4, 1972



ANNEX 4
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banking and Agricultural Credit
Money and Banking
1.        Lesotho has no central bank and uses the South African Rand as its
domestic currency. Two commercial banks, the Standard Bank Ltd, and Barclays
Bank International Ltd, both foreign-owned, have branches in Maseru and
S               agencies throughout the country.  The Standard is banker to Government.  Land
tenure prevents real estate being put up as security. Since little other
suitable security is available, commercial banks lend relatively little to
Basotho borrowers for any purpose, though deposits in Lesotho are, on average,
about four times the banks' advances. They have made a few three-year loans
for the purchase of tractors, with a lien on the machinery and an undertaking
to pay the proceeds of tractor hire directly to them. Repayment experience
on these loans is not very good, however, and the banks are not very keen on
them, though they continue to make tractor loans to borrowers with whom they
have good personal relationships.
2.        The Government-owned Post Office Savings Bank, established in April
1966, is a popular depository for small savings, totalling about R 1 M.
Rates of Interest
3.        Commercial banks lend to Government at 8%; to Government agencies
at 9%; short-term on overdraft against produce stocks, with Government
guarantee, at 8.5%; and to other borrowers on good security (e.g. estab-
0              lished civil servants) at 9-10.5%.  The rate paid on savings by the
commercial banks and the Post Office Savings Bank is 4-4.5%; on term deposits
the rate varies between 5.5% for 31 days to 7% for six months. These interest
rates generally follow the South African pattern. The customary rate for such
short-term agricultural credit as is available, i.e. through Cooperatives and
Farmers Associations, is 1% per month.
Agricultural Credit Institutions
4.        Although very little credit is available for agriculture, a number
of small institutions lend to farmers, all supported by various donors and
charities. They comprise:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(a) Agricultural Development Fund (ADF);
(b) Co-op Lesotho Ltd (CLL);
(c) Lesotho Credit Union Scheme for Agriculture (LECUSA);
(d) Leribe Scheme (part of the UNDP Leribe Project).
Agricultura. Development Fund
5.        ADF was founded in 1962, with grants from OXF0> and the British
Government. It makes short-term and some medium-term (3-5 year) credit
available to groups of farmers and to some individuals, using the Government
Extension Service as a channel. For seed and fertilizer, purchased through
traders, up to 90% of the cost is advanced. Its loans at September 30,
1971 totalled about R 70,000 (US$93,000). 1/  Interest charged to Associations
is 9% per year and by Associations to members, 1% per month.  Since ADF has               4
extremely few staff of its own (one manager, one extension agent and three
clerks) it is unable to collect repayments promptly at harvest time and
its repayment record is poor. It now has a rule that no new loans are made
to an Association unless at least 75% of repayments due have been paid.
Co-op Lesotho Ltd. (CLL)
6.        Cooperative banking made a promising debut in 1957, ran into
insurmoun.table difficulties by 1960/61, and ended in disaster ir. 1963 -
generally attributed to political interference and inadequate management.
Ihe Finance and Marketing Cooperative Union of Basutoland was formed in
1963 to *ake over the remaining assets of orevious cooperative lending
institutions; it changed its name to the Finance and Marketing Cooperative
of Union Lesotho after Independence in 1966, and to Co-op Lesotho Ltd in
July 1972. CLL's members, except for the 1Lesotho Government, are themselves
cooperatives or saving societies and its lending is supplementary to its
meimber societies' funds. By its statutes, CLL imay not lend for more than
five years nor at interest rates exceeding 15%' per year nor pay more than                E
10% on deposits. It currently pays 4% on members' deposits and will lend
to them a maximum of twice the amount deposited, thus ensuring that member
societies first raise their own funds. CLL charges 1% per month on its
loans.
7.        Summnarized CLL Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Accounts for
1965/66-1970/7* are in the attached Table. CLL assets at March 30, 1971
totalled about R 153,000 (US$193,000).
3.        CLL made an unfortunate beginning and had to curtail its credit
operations drastically; but more recently, especially since it discontinued
loans to individuals and limited the amount ofi loans to any one cooperative
(maximum R 3,000), it has met wlth more success.
1/   At the exchange rate of R 1 = US$1.33.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Like ADF, CLL is short of staff; but it has a sound institutional
ba&kgrzund,  With strengthening of staff and freedom to operate commercially
wiLtout Governmrent interference, CLL could become an effective credit
and mRrke-Uing agency. However, in view of CLL's lack of expertise and faci-
litis. which it would take a long time to put right, and its countrywide area
oit oinere&rian  it would be preferable for the project to make its own arrange-
mcnts for supply of inputs on credit.
Lesothc        Unreit Union Scheme for ariculture
-11-)     L,E;USA is an associationl of consumer and producer credit unions, set
up wi.th USAID assistance.  It also receives funds from voluntary agencies
auch as OXPM and CARE.  Started as a University Extension Service, mainly
for tracitor purchase and hiring credit, its funds are very limited anad its
aitaff inexperienced. Its principal defLiciency, however, is lack of trained
staff and inadequate pay for credit union officers.  Four of the twelve
member ti.ons have run into serious problems, mainly due to farmers' lack of
sF7iags, inflexible loan  policies and loan delinquency.
Other Agricultural Credit
ii.       Although there are probably upwards of 100 trading stores in
Lesotho (26 in the project area), they are believed to make little credit
available, and then only very selectively.  Some consumer goods are supplied
on credit, pending the marketing of a wool or mohair clip; but the supply of
farm inputs by traders on credit, except in a small way in conjunction with
other institutions, is rare.
Credit and the Agricultural Sector
12.       Most Lesotho farms are small (3-5 ac) and fragmented, but large
enough to need plowing by oxen or tractor. Production is mostly by family
labor and for subsistence; cash incomes from crops are low, supplemented
in many cases by sales of wool and mohair.  Farming is seasonal and subjDect
to the usual fa7ming risks of weather and market, though in Lesotho drought
is an abnormal hazard; and facilities for marketing surplus crops are minimal
so that, in a good year, surpluses are largely wasted through inadequate
storage. Most farmers are totallyT unable to purchase improved seed, fertilizer
and pesticide; and not many can pay cash for plowing services, which are
therefore frequently arranged on a crop sharing basis and are often late
in starting.
13.       Communal spirit is strong in Lesotho, however (Annex 2, para 11),
and several score of farmers associations have been formed to pool resources
and obtain credit, backed by the Joint liability of their members.  These
associations may be registered as Friendly Societies with relatively little
formality and supervision, or as Cooperative Societies proper (Cooperative
arnd Friendly Societies Act 19060)  and they vary from relatively loose
associations of a dozen or more farmers, with a common kinship, to larger
and more sophisticated groups, geographically linked. Group supply of
inputs and credit is their principal motivation, encouraged by ADF and CLL
in view of poor experience with credit to individuals.



A.iNNIEX 4
Page 4
14.        Since land cannot be pledged as security, repayment of credit must
be secured in other ways, e.g. short-term credit closely tied to marketable
crop. IMTi-s presupposes an improved marketing system so that surpluses can
be sold through an approved channel and debt recovered at the tiame of sale.
Medium-term credit must be secured by a lien on assets purchased with it, and
pre-emptlon of income derived from their use.
Need for Agriclu tural Credit
15        Supply of improved and adequate inputs, including plo ing services,
would have a significant effect on production and cash incorie.  Vaery few
Lesotho farmers can have use of these inputs unl'ess they are supp'Lied on
credit; anad, incidentally, farmers can on:ly bDenefit from t2hem fully If they
are shown iwhich to use and how to use them.  Short-terri credit has high
priority for rural development anywghere.                                                    4
16.       There is also a concurrent need for more farn mriaceinery, such as
tractors, p'rows, cultivators and trailers, which likewise car only be used
properly with adecuate training and demonstrationr  ana for imnproved lIvestock
for draft and for production.  These ilaems cannot generate enough income in
one or two seasons to pay for themselves and they have a relatively Long
life- medihm-term  (5-year) credit is therefore needed for their purchase.
17.       Longer-term credit for farm buildings and other more pernanent
improvements is not at present feasibl-e, in the absence of suitable security
or repayment metehods.
Proposals for Credit Supl
is.       Government is aware of the shortcomings o'L the present credit systemr,
in particular, the need ror more funds, more rtiff   and competent management.
it is also aware tl-tat agricueLtural credit generall-y is more risky than
coimnercial or industrial credit and needs sneciali attention, including proper
appralsal, technical agricu]ltural and financial supeervision, and t1he provision
of adequate i nput supply and crop marketin1g channels_
W1ith its limited financial and management resources, Lesotho has
created one credit institution, the Lesotho Nation.al DeveloDment and Savings
Ban"k (DM) (Order 1o. 8 of March 5, 1971) into which will be consolidated all
official develcpnment lending end credit activities.  it is intended to be
the principai depository of Lesothan savings, recip'ent of development funds
and channel for credit of all kinds throughout LesotJio,  -while  rt has statu-
tory existence, and a manager with experi.ence of German banking and coopera-
tives and Swiss trading in Africa, it has, as yet, no policy and no staff,
and Government intends to proceed cautiounsly with its establ1 ishm ent.
20.        It is likely that ADF will be d'ssolved and its credit function
transferred to the Development Bank; the .credit functions of CLL might
also be absorbed into the Development Bank or a special relat:ionship be
established  Tith it,



ANNEX 4
Page 5
21.       It is important that agricultural credit be coordinated with
input supply and marketing outlets. If project farmers are to be properly
provided for, at least until LDB is safely working, the project would need
to set up its own coordinated system.
August 4, 1972



a        a



ANNEX 4
Table
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Co-Qp LesoIlp 14A.
Accounts for Years ended March 31, 1968 - 1971
(Rand)
BALANCE SHEETS AT
MARCH 31                            1968          1969          1970          1971
1/
ASSETS
Fixed Assets:
Buildings                         78,640        78,640        76,035       74,515
Equipment and Fixtures             2,50i-t      2,2502]       2,230         2,019
Vehicles                         4_50_2_         9,00_2       18,206        17 023
85,640       89,890        96,471        93,557
Less Depreciation for Year                                    (6,300)       (5,946)
Net Fixed Assets                    85,640        89,890        90,171        87,611
Current Assets:
Stocks                            26,292        27,776       41,072        90,399
Debtors                           14,438        29,911        36,337        70,438
Cash and Bank                       -            3,083         6,119       78,008
40,730        60,770       83,528       238,845
Current Liabilities                (28,080)      (50,037)      (44 447)    (173.771)
12,650       10,733        39,081        65 074
TOTAL ASSETS:                                    100,623      T2zg,Z        -152,685
LIABILITIES
Accumulated Funds
Loans and Grants b/f             253,691        47,745        53,580       84,750
Addition during year                -             -           25,000         8,921
Net Loans & Grants               253,691        47,745        78,580        93.671
Net Profit (Loss) for Year    (205,946)          5,835        6,.170         I1315
Net Accumulated Funds               47,745        53,580        84,750       106,786
Loans & Savings Accounts            50,545        47,043        44,502        45,899
TOTAL LIABILITIES:                  98,290       100,623       129,251       152,685
l/ Unaudited
i/ At valuation
August 9, 1972



ANNEX 4
Table
Page 2
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Co-Op Lesotho Ltd.
Accounts for Years ended March 31, 1968 - 1971
(Rand)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS
FOR YEAR ENDED MARCH 31                    1968      1969          1970          1971
INCOME
Sales                                 134,719  242,838        342,611       408,962
Interest Received                       8,235       110          -            1,073
Rent (Net)                              6,159    5,654          5,921         5,486
Sundries                                 -        1,743            35           221      6
TOTAL INCOME:                         149,113  250,345        348,567       415,742
EXPENSES
Purchases                             128,102  214,067        309,734       397,182
Opening Stock                          18,618   26,292         27,776        41,072
Less: Closing Stock                   (26,292) (27,776)       (41,072)      (90,299)
Railage                                  -          531          -           10,268
120,428  217,114       296,438       358,223
Transportation                          6,3981/  6,815         15,337_L/      6'
Salaries & Wages                        9,443   10,642         15,703        19,998
Interest & Bank Charges                 3,698    2,601          1,775         1,751
Depreciation                            4,883    2,332          6,300         5,946
Other                                   3,878  _ 5006           6,462         9.74O2
28,300   2,396         45,577        44,4O3
rl Doubtful Debtors                       3,000      -              D            -
Written Off                           135,007                     382          -
Deficiency b/f                         68,324      -             -             -
Net Profit (Loss)                    (205,946)   5,835          6,170        i3,1i5
TOTAL EXPENSES:                       149,113  250,345        348,567       415,741
1/ Includes Railage
2   Includes Maize Levy R2,110
AuguEt 9, 1972



MANEX 5
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Techniques and Programs in the Project
A. Basic Crop Input Program
General
1.        The present system of agriculture in Lesotho is based on the right
of every married, tax-paying male to the use of sufficient land for
the growing of subsistence crops for his family, and his right to pasture
stock, however numerous, on communal grazing.
2.        With a few exceptions, no permanent rights to land exist either
for permanent agriculture or controlled individual grazing.  Under the present
land tenure system, therefore, the farmer can only avail himself of improved
crop husbandry practices which give him immediate increase in annual crop
yields and is precluded from any permanent improvement designed to raise
soil fertility and long-term yields.
Farming Inputs
3.        The project provides, as a package, inputs of improved seed, fertil-
izer and cultivation; credit to purchase them; and technical guidance on how
to apply them; together with soil conservation, roads and marketing facilities.
Each package would be designed by the extension service, in one-acre units,
to suit the particular crop and the soil in the area in which it would be
used. This would enable the farmer to improve his output and profits within
the present system and would be readily acceptable to him.
Improved Seed
4.        The project would provide and organize the timely arrival of better
seed to enable the farmer to plant at the correct time. Trials carried out
by the Department of Agriculture, together with the experience gained from
neighboring South Africa, indicate the most suitable varieties of seed for
different zones. Lesotho is fortunate in that good, certified supplies of
all the main varieties of seed are available from nearby Farmers' Cooperatives
in South Africa.
5.        Maize seed would mainly be hybrids such as PPK64 and SA4.  Sorghum
would be white hybrid NK 320, among others, along with the nonhybrid Tenent
White; all are particularly suitable for malting. Wheat varieties used are
mainly winter grown, starting with Scheepers planted in April and May, with
quicker growing varieties being used as the season progresses. Spring or



ANNEX 5
Page 2
summer wheats would not be planted in the project, despite the higher price
obtained for these hard-grained varieties, because they grow better in the
Mountains, where they are less liable to rain failure and aphid damage.
6.        Bean seed varieties used are mainly of the white haricot type,
but the project would encourage the use of the Michigan pea bean which
commands a higher price.
Fertilizer
7.        Fertilizer is already being used by progressive farmers, limited
by cash or credit availability. The recommended rate of fertillzer applica-
tion is based on results from the FAQ Lesotho Fertilizer Program, rur. by
Government's Agricultural Research Station, on test plots within the project
area.  By the second year, it will have further data to improve on its
recommendations.  Preliminary indications at the UNDPIFAO Leribe Project,                6
just outside the project area, show still Lurther increases in yields with
heavier fertilizer application. When confirmed, the project would be able
to adapt its program accordingly.
8.        The project provides for credit to 12,000 farmers on 36,000 ac for
the purchase of improved seed and fertilizer (100 kg/ac) for maize, wheat,
beans and sorghum. The fertilizer would be in proportion 2:3:0 NPK mixture,
providing 6% nitrogen and 18% phosphate (P 05) for maize, wheat and sorghum,
with a cheaper mixture for beans providing 2.5% nitrogen and 16% phosphate
(P205).
Improved Cultivation
9.        The third project input is cultivation services in the form of
work oxen, and tractors for timely and prope: cultivation. Credit would be
provided to owners to purchase these items and to farmers to hire them for
one plowing and one cultivation/planting per year. Alternative methods
of minimum cultivation, dropping the use of the plow, and substituting three
tined ripping cultivations before plantiug would be encouraged.  These
techniques keep the maximum possible cover or crop residues on the ground,
encourage water absorption and reduce runoff and soil erosion.
Tractor Loan Program
10.       About one-third of Lesotho farmers own draft cattle used for culti-
vation. There are about 300 serviceable tractors in Lesotho, of which about
60 are in the project area. Of the 75-100,000 ac cultivated land in the
project area, three-quarters could be properly cultivated by existing oxen
and tractors, given some training in improved methods which the project
would provide. The remaining quarter would require some 100 tractors and
machinery plus 200 oxen to be used, especially wi,hin the 36,000 ac to
receive project inputs (see para 8).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
11.       Tractor hire operators, some of whom are also farmers, own most
of the machines - two to three each on average. One-quarter to one-half of
the work is on a straight hire basis and the rest on some form of share-
cropping. General rates are R 3.50 per hour, equivalent to R 4 for plowing
and R 3.50 for cultivating and planting one acre.
12.       A Ministry operated tractor school trains drivers; but they have
little incentive to learn because tractor owners have yet to recognize their
skills and pay them more. Cultivations tend to be skimpy and shallow and
unskilled drivers damage terrace banks and grass strips. Tractor owners
also lack skill and do not properly understand bookkeeping; nor do they
make adequate provision for tractor replacement.
13.       The project would provide sufficient credit for 100 tractors
plus complementary machinery, consisting of a plow and cultivator planter.
The Ministry tractor training school would be expanded to cover training
required for the project.
14.       Existing experienced operators would have priority for loans,
followed by trained, able and experienced tractor drivers and, finally,
progressive farmers and farmers' groups; the latter only after one or two
years' demonstration of their viability and knowledge of bookkeeping and
tractor hiring.
15.       Tractor loans would be made on the following conditions:
(a) 25% deposit;
(b) both driver and owner to have successfully attended an
appropriate driving or operating course;
(c) operator to give priority to project farms and
work only for cash;
(d)  project approved standards of work to be followed; and
(e)  proper maintenance to be carried out regularly, as approved
by project management.
16.       Thus, the farmer would be helped with his present farming system
and crops by removing the three limiting factors of: cultivation power and
timeliness; proper seed to provide the genetic capability to use the better
conditions; and fertilizers to correct the chronic deficiencies of phosphate
and nitrogen.
17.       Some progressive farmers already carry out these practices and
are achieving yields in excess of those shown in the attached Table, and
in farmers' budgets in Annex 23, Tables 1 to 6. Apart from these inputs
to progressive farmers, the general project benefits of roads, markets, soil
conservation, and agricultural advice and training would benefit all farmers
in the area. The savings from avoidance of crop losses due to bad storage
and marketing alone would be substantial.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Livestock
18.       The project provides credit for the purchase of 400 Friesian or
Brown Swiss milk cows and 200 animals suitable for work oxen.
Work Oxen
19.       The work oxen would be purchased on the basis that the farmer would
sell sufficient of his unproductive stock to provide one-quarter of the pur-
chase price of a pair of adult working animals, at R 100 each. In some
cases younger, two-year animals would be purchased at a lesser price
and time would be taken to train them. The capability of a team to work some
15 ac per season allows an owner to contract to his neighbors. Sometimes,
two pairs of oxen are used, particularly for the heavier soils.  Provision
is also made for some winter feed to ensure good condition and work capability
of the oxen at the beginning of the cultivation season.
Milk Cows
20.       Apart from a very few individual farmers with fenced holdings on
the Berea Plateau, and some cows in backyards in Maseru, no improved dairy
cattle exist in the project area. Provision would be made for 5-year credit
for 50% of the purchase price of 400 Friesian or Brown Swiss daiiy cattle,
and for their housing during the winter months.
21.       A dairy cow owner's budget in Annex 23, TaDle 5 shows provision for
the purchase of concentrate feeding stuffs to supplement crop residues and
cut fodder and grazing provided by the owrer. The integrated farming program
(Part B), when implemented, would be given priority for dairy cattle
loans, because an integral part of the farming system is the feeding and
grazing of high producing stock in controlled numbers.
22.       Milk would be sold locally or to the UNICEF funded pasteurizing
plant being established at the Ministry Dairy Stud Farm at Maseru. The farm
would provide improved bulls and later an artificial insemination service to
dairy farmers. The plant would provide a lorry collection service, from
two centers to be established within the project area, and package and pas-
teurize up to 250 gallons daily for sale in Maseru. Farmers are presently
being paid R 0.03 per pint farm-gate. R 0.005 each for transport and packing
in plastic containers and R 0.01 for pasteurizing, would keep the price
within the wholesale R 0.05-.06 per pint for similar imported milk presently
sold in Maseru.
23.       Existing dairy farmers are achieving at least the average milk
yields used in the budget in Annex 23, Table 5, i.e. a 425-gallon lactation
every 18 months. With a 20% death rate among the calves and one replacement
heifer every five years, one store yearling every three years can be raised.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
B. Integrated Farming
General
24.       The basic project program helps solve the immediate problem of
increasing crop yields, as described in Part A of this Annex, so that
project farmers would produce cash crops as well as subsistence and earn
a cash income from their land. However, the fundamental problems arising
from traditional land use and communal unrestricted grazing would not be
tackled thereby, and the project farmer would be unable to reach the next
stage of stable improved farming, based on rising soil fertility and
integrated productive stock keeping, without further action.
25.       The present system of continuous cropping has led to soil erosion,
descending soil fertility, reduction of humus, poor water retention and
low yields. Better cultivation techniques, rotation of crops and grassland,
together with controlled grazing of stock, would reverse the depletion
process. Soil structure would be reformed under grass leys or fodder crops;
soil cover would be maintained by grass or controlled grazing of crop residues;
and thus the water holding capacity of the soil would be improved.
26.       The tradition-bound peasant farmer needs education, persuasion and
physical demonstration before he is willing to adopt and adapt to radically
different concepts and practices, whereby he moves to a basically cash
economy with integrated stock and crop farming and more permanent land
rights. Careful trial must be made to find the system most suited to the
situation. The project therefore provides for a research program (Annex 9)
to investigate and demonstrate different practical systems of land tenure
and agriculture to reach this stage. At the same time, the project
establishes an integrated farming program to make use of research findings.
The program provides for credit inputs and staff to establish an area of
integrated crop and stock farming on some 5,000 ac, over the final three
0              years of the project.  The program would be implemented either by individuals
or groups of farmers, with full rights over their cropping land and contiguous
grazing and enabling them by fencing, to keep improved stock in correct
numbers and to change their cropping system to allow the growing of better
crops, fodder and grass in an integrated farming system.
Field Program
27.       The Chief Extension Officer, with wide field experience, assisted
by his Deputy and a social scientist seconded from UBLS (Roma) would prepare
for, establish and carry out this integrated program, obtaining the consent
and cooperation of farmers, chiefs and Government to transform a coherent
area within the project to this type of permanent agriculture. USAID is
considering funding UBLS (Roma) to provide the necessary assistance in this
field.
28.       In addition to project inputs at a higher level of intensity,
improved stock would be included to replace or supplement original animals,



ANNEX 5
Page 6
and fencing and cow sheds would be provided.  Project and Ministry staff
would also carry out any necessary mapping, land registration and holding
reorganization necessary.
29.       The integrated farming program would serve as a guide for continued
development of the project area and other areas with similar ecology, and
would itself obtain information and guidance from integrated farming investi-
gations carried out by the Project Research Section (Annex 9).
30.       The program, once the location was agreed and the cooperation of
farmers and others was assured, would proceed as follows:
(a) farmers' holdings to be mapped, measured and agreed;
(b)  an integrated soil conservation, land use, cropping                           4
and farming plan to be produced by project staff, and
its adoption agreed by the farmers;
(c) road, fencing and waterway protection works
to be carried out by the project;
(d) fencing and simple building construction for livestock
to be completed;
(e) the cropping program, including fodder and grassland,
to be started; and credit supplied for crop inputs
and tractor power for cultivations;
(f) the original livestock to be marshalled and inspected and a
plan agreed on its disposal, whether through sale, permanent
despatch to mountain grazing, or incorporation in the
farming unit;
(g)  purchase and installation of replacement livestock;                           I
(h) farmers to be trained meanwhile in cropping, stock
management, bookkeeping and general farming business.
31.       Project staff would assist at all levels during the difficult
transition period of the first two years.  They and Government would keep an
open mind as to the eventual form this type of agriculture might take,
whether as individual holdings with cooperative marketing and supply of
inputs and tractor power; or as extended family holdings, groups of
contiguous farmers, or larger - scale completely communal holdings.
32.       Likewise, the eventual form of land tenure for the progressive
farmer could develop in many ways from individual state tenancy to communal
or village rights, with saleable interests held by individuals or families.
But it is important that grazing control and stock limitation be enforced
in the area selected, according to a plan formulated by Government and
agreed with IDA.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
C. Crop Production and Yields within the Project Area
33.       The Table below summarizes estimated crop yields without the
project and as forecast with project inputs of seed, fertilizer and improved
cultivations. The third column shows the yields estimated for the
integrated farming program, using more fertilizer and crop rotations.
Table 1: Crop Yield
Project             Integrated
Without Project         With Inputs             Program
Bags/ac   lb/ac       Bags/ac   lb/ac     Bags/ac    lb/ac
Maize     2.0        400         8.0    1,600         12.0       2,400
Sorghum   2.0       400          8.0    1,600         12.0      2,400
Wheat     2.5        500         7.0    1,400         10.0       2,000
Beans     1.0        200         4.5       900         6.0       1,200
(4 when graded)       (5.5 when graded)
34.       Farmers within the project, but who do not directly receive
project inputs, would benefit from extension advice, better roads, soil
conservation and proper marketing provided under the project.  Better seed
would be available to them, after the first harvest, from participating
farmers; soil conservation would affect moisture penetration; and pressure
on available cultivation power would be relieved with extra tractors
and oxen from the project, so that more timely cultivation would be possible
throughout the project area. Finally, losses of stored grain are presently
very large (up to 50%), and proper marketing under the project would serve
to increase effective yield by reducing these losses. The increase would
be gradual and, estimated at one bag/ac of cereal, is expected to be derived
during the last two years of the project.
35.       The Tables below summarize possible acreages of different crops,
based on the farmers' budgets in Annex 23. Estimates for the project area
show that maize and sorghum now comprise 75% of cropped acreage, with maize
probably 45% and sorghum 30%; wheat and beans comprise about 10% each and the
remaining 5% is under fallow or other crops.



-ANNEX 5
Page 8
Table 2: Number of Farmers Accepting Inputs and Acreage Involved
Number of                     2 Ac Maize or
Farmers       2 Ac Wheat         Sorghum         1 Ac Beans       Total
6,000         12,000               -              6,000          18,000
6,000             -         9,000 + 3,000         6,000          18,000
maize + sorgVium     _
12,000         12,000            12,000           12,000          36,000
Table 3: Cumulative Program for Phasing of Inputs
(Crop and Project Year April 1 to March 31)
Ö-                    ÖAcres ------Ö4
Project   No. of                                                         Total
Year     Farms       Maize     Sorghum       Wheat       Beans          Area
1         200         120        80           -           50             250
2       1,400         360       240          600         600           1,800
3       3,000       1,200       800        2,000       2,000           6,000
4       5,000       2,400     1,600        4,000       4,000          12,000
5       8,000       4,800     3,200        8,000       8,000          24,000
6      12,000       7,200     4,800       12,000      12,000         36,000
36.       The project would increase wheat and beans, the two most profitable
cash crops, at the expense of maize and sorghum. It is assumed that the area
presently under minor crops or fallow would be absorbed. Alternatively, if
the land was poor and under fallow, it would not be within the improved area.
37.       Other crops might be developed by project staff, or by the farmers
themselves, and would have at least as good pro%it margin (See Annex 9,
para 6).  For example, a good demand exists for sunflower which was                     6
recently introduced and is already growing 4n the area in small amounts; and
potatoes grow well, though their marketing is difficult.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Table 4: Project Crop Percentage and Acreage
Ö----Crops With Project-----------Ö ----
Crops                                                Totals
Without   Progressive Farmers         Farmers         Within
Project       Using Inputs       Not Using Inputs    Project
Crops          Amount  %       Amount      %        Amount      %     Amount  %
Acres          Acres                Acres             Acres
Maize           45,000  45      14,400     24        18,000     45 )
)  39,600  40
Improved                                                           )
Maize             -    -        7,200     12           -       -  )
Sorghum        30,000  30       9,600      16       12,000      30 )
)  26,400  26
Improved                                                           )
Sorghum           -    -       4,800       8          -        -  )
Wheat           10,000  10        -        -         4,000      10 )
)  16,000  16
Improved                                                           )
Wheat             -    -      12,000      20           -       -  )
Beans           10,000  10        -        -         4,000      10 )
)  16,000  16
Improved                                                           )
Beans             -    -      12,000      20           -       -  3
Other Crops
or Fallow      5,000   5         -        -         2,000       5     2,000   2
100,000 100     60,000    100        40,000    100   100,000 100
June 30, 1972



a             a I 



LESOIl0
ThAU BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farn Costa (Regular Program)
Unit costld                                                                                                             Foreign
Crop Inputs                   (Per 100 Ac)       Year           1           2           3           4           5           6            Total         Exchanbt
Maize (Acres)                                                 (120)       (360)     (1,200)     (2,400)      (4,800)     (7,200)
Seed                           150                           1SO         540       1,800       3,600       7,200      10,800         24,120          21,708
Fertilizer                     479                           575       1,724       5,748      11,496      22,992       34,488        77,023          69,321
Seed D-essing                   66                            79         238         792       1,584       3,168        4,752        10,613           9,552
Sub-totel                                               834        2,502       8,340      16,680      33,360      50,040        111,756         100,581
Sorghwo (Acres)                                                (80)       (240)       (800)     (1,600)      (3,200)     (4,800)
Seed                           100                            80         240         800       1,600        3,200       4,800        10,720           9,650
Pertilizer                     479                           383       1,150       3,832       7,664      15,328       22,992        51,349          46,214
Spraying and Dressing          160                           128         384       1,280       2,56D       5,120        7,680        17,152          15,437
Sub-total                                                591       1,774       5,912      11,824      23,648       35,472        79,221          71,301
Whea; (Acres)                                                  -          (600)     (2,000)     (4,000)      (8,000)    (12,000)
Seed                           400                           -         2,400       8,000      16,000      32,000       48,000       106,400          95,760
Fertilizer                     479                           -         2,874       9,580      19,160      38,320       57,480       127,414         114,673
Spraying                       100                           -           600       2,000       4,000       8,000       12,000        26,600          23,940
Sub-total                                               _          5,874      19,5380     39,160      78,320      117,480       260,414         234,373
Farvesting and Threshing       350                           _         2,100       7,000      14,000      28,000       42,000        93,100          83,790
Sub-total                                                -         7,974      26,580      53,160     106,320      159,480       353.514         318,163
Beans (Acres)                                                  (50)       (600)     (2,000)     (4,000)      (9,000)    (12,000)
Seed                           420                           210       2,520       8,400      16,800      33.600       50,400       111,930         100,740
Fertilizer                     400                           200       2,400       8,000      16,000      32,000       48,000       106,600          95,940
Spraying                       100                            50         600       2,000       4,000       8,000       12,000        26,650          23,985
SSub-total                                              460        5,520      18,400      36,800      73,600     110,400        245,180         220,665
TOTAL ANNUAL CROP INPUTS                                   1,885      17,770      59,232     118,464     236,928      355,392       789,671         710,710
A.nual Incremental Cost Vj ____                                      15,885      41,462      59,232      118,464     118,464       355,392         319,850
Annual Cultivation
Tractor Operating   New3/      415                         1,040       6,230      24,900       49,800     87,150      124,500       293,620         205,530
- Existing4L 514                           .        1,540         -             -        7,700      23,130        32,370           22,660
Cattle Feed                    100                            _          _           _            380      1,500       1,500          3380 
TOTAL ANNUAL CULTIVATION                                 1,040       7.770      24.900       50.180     96,360      149.130       329.370         228.190
Arnual Incremental Cost                                    1,040       6,730      17,130       25.280     46,170      52,780        149,130          89,870
Furchasea for Cultivation
_TrctcS-etLI                 3,000                        3,000(1)   12,000(4)   45,000(15)   60,000(20) 90,000(30)  90,000(30)   30,000            270,000
Ocen                           200                                                            __-  -  5025) _1.0Oq(75)               20.000            -
TOTAL -URCHASES                                         3,000       12,000      45,000       65,000    105,000      90,000        320,000         270,000
TOTAL CULTIVATION COST                                  4,040       19,770     6S9,900      115,190    201,350     239,130        649,370         498,190
TOTAL ON-FARM COST                                       5,925      37,540     129,i_;2     233,644    438,278     594,522      2,439,041       1,208,900
TOTAL FtNDS/                                                5       34.615      03=592      149,512    269.634     261.244        824,522         679,720
*       O      I/ Unit cost includes transportation, handling and losses.
2/ Years' addition to revolving fund.
3/ Traders purchased under the project.
4/ Tractors, other than those purchased under the project.
S/ Comprise one tractor: R 2,400; one plow; R 300; one planter R 300.
6/ Total funds required, including revolving fund.
,.ne 27, 1972



a        a



LESOTHO
TH&BA& BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Extension Services
(Rand)
Unit                                                                                                        Foreign
Staff                                 Cost          Year          1           2          3          4          5          6          Total         Exchange
Senior Extension Officer           12,000                     12,000(1) 12,000(1) 12,000(1)  12,000(1)  12,000(1)  12,000(1)    72,000            64,800
Deputy Ftension Officer            3,080                      1,540(0)  3,200(1)  3,320(1)   3,440(1)   3,560(1)   3,680(1)    18,740              -
Area Supervisors                     1,920                     3,840(1)   3,980(2)  5,920 (3)   8,050(4)   8,430(4)   8,620(4)    38,840
Area Supervisor Trailnees              910                       -          910(1)  1,820 (2)  1,820(2)  1,820 (2)  1,820(2)    8,190
ExtensionAgents                        910                     1,820(2)   2,830(3)  5,710(6)   9,650(10) 19,230(20) 23,100(30)  62,340              -
Deiommtrators - Trainees              580                      1,740(3)  2,320 (4)  4,060 (7)  8,700(15)  9,280(16) 4,060(7)   30,160               -
Clerk/Typist                          520                        260(%)    550(1)      590 (1)    640(1)     680 (1)    730(1)     3,450            -
Drivers                               520                        520 (1)    550 (1)    590 (1)    640 (1)    680 (1)    730 (1)    3,710            -
Sub-total                                             q  21,7220   .26,340      34,O1l     44,940     55,680     54,740      237,430          64,800
Staff:On-Coets 40T,                                            8,690     10,540     13,600     17,980     22,270     21,900       94,980          25,920
Sub-total                                                 30,410     36,880     47,610     62,920     77,950     76,640      332,410          90,720
4-Wheel DrivelJ                      3,200                     5,340 (d)  1,070 (a)  1,070 (a)    -        3,200 (1)    -         10,680          10,150
Cars                                 1,400                     1,400 (1)    -          -        1,400 (1)  1,400 (1)  1,400 (1)    5,600           5,320
Bicycles                                30                       150 (5)     60 (2)    300 (10)   390 (13)   420 (14)   300 (10)   1,620            1,540
Office and Desonstration                                       1,000        900        900        400        400        400        4,000            3,800
Sub-total                                                  7,890      2,030      2,270      2,190      5,420      2,100       21,900           20,810
B-uilin
Houses- Type A                      16,000                    16,000 (1)                     -                          -         16,000            9,600
- Type B                      10,600                    10,600 (1)               -          -                     -         10,600            6,360
- Type C                       4,400                     8,800 (2)  4,400 (1)  4,400 (1)    -          -          -         17,600           10,560
Sub-total                                                 35,400      4,400      4,400        -          -          -         44,200           26,520
4-Whoel Drive                        1,600                     2,670 (d)  3,200 (2)  3,740 (e)  3,740 (e)  2,670 (d)  2,140 (c)   18,160           12,710
Care                                 1,200                     1,200 (1)  1,200 (1)  1,200 (1)  1,200 (1)  2,000 (d)  2,400 (2)    9,200            6,440
Equiwnnt                                                         -        1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000       .5,000           3,500
Houses (2.5f)                                                    -          880        990      1,100      1,100       1,100        5,170           2,580
Sub-total                                                  3,870      6,280      6,930      7,040      6,770       6,640       37,530         i25,230
TOML E1SION                                               77,570     49,590     61,210     72,150      90,140     85,380      436,040         163,280
if Shared with Credit and Marketing Services.                   (a) one-third            (d) one and two-thirds
(c) one and one-third    (e) two and one-third
My2,1972



QHSA     I UR! RLO I Vf MNT  JRCT
Cost of Train&_ng
Unlit                                                                                                           Foreign
Stntqlf                                         c't           Year           1           2          3           4           5          6          Totel          ExCCaL7
8e,tjor AsrL ultu al 1<' chi2isy Officer1'       700                       700 (1)     70O (1)    700 (1)     700 (1)     700                     3,500
D  uty Troldu.g Officer                        3,080                     3,080 (1)   3,200 (1)   3,320 (1)   3,h40 (1)   3,560                   16,600
&Sastzritat Tainag Officer                     1,850                     3,700 (2)   3,840 (2)   3,980 (2)   4,J.20 (2)   4,280                  19,920
Clei/Driwvere                                    520                     1,040 (2)  1,100 (2)   1,180 (2)   1,280 (2)   1,360        -            5,960
Sub-total                                                            8,520      8,840       9,180       9,540      9,900         -          45,980
Staff On-Costs 40%                                                       3,410       3,540      3,670       3,820      3,960                     18,400           -
Sub-total                                                           11,930     12,380      12,850     13,360      13,860                    64,380
Ni.ibus                                        3,000                     3,000(l)    -           _           _                                    3,000           2,700
Car                                            1,400                     1,400(1)    -                                                            1,400          1,260
iNtorcycleo                                      450                       900 (2)    -           450 (1)     450(l)    -                         1,800           1,620
fisactor and Iplaseats                         4,000                     4,000(1)   4,000(1)    -            -                                    8,000           7,200
D3o0stration u F,qi-t                                                    3,000       2,500      1,000       1,000      1,000                      8,500          7,650
Sub-total                                                           12,300       6,500      1,450       1,450      1,000         -          22,700          20,430
bui1dinas
Houses - Type BY                              10,600                    21,200(2)    -           _           _                                   21,200          12,720
- Type C                               4,400                      8,800(2)    -                      -           -            -           8,800           5,280
- Type D                               6,300                      6,300(1)    -           -          -           -            -           6,300           3,780
Classroom                                     100,000                   10,000(1)    -           -           _          -            -           10,000           6,000
Varm Buildings                                 4,000                     4,000 (1)                            -                                   4,000           2,400
Sub-total                                                           50,300                                                                  50,300          30,180
l£aintenane   d Oer-atLon
TRraining Visitsa                                                        4,000       6,000      4,000       6,000        -           -           20,000          14,000
Vehicles                                       4,000                     4,000       4,000      4,000       4,000      4,000                     20,000          14,000
Training Center                                5,000                     2,000       5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000        -           22,000          15,400
Buildings (2.5%)                                                          -          1,260      1,260       1,260       1,260        -            5,040           3,530
Sub-total.                                                          10,000      16,260     14,260      16,260     10,260                     67,040         46,930
'm4jj PRPWJE3C  TRAI1NING-4/                                        84,530      35,140     28,560      31,070     25,120                    204,420          97,540
1' Additional cost of Machinery Officer, already in Lesotho, who would continue to use his owi vehicle.
; For guests and visiting lecturers.
T/ Training visits to similar ?rojects, e.g. VAena, Malavi.
4/ Excluding Soil Conservation (see Annex 14, Page 1).
July 6, 1972



ANNEX 9
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research
Present Research
1.        Agricultural research has been carried out by the Ministry of
Agriculture for more than 20 years at the Maseru Research Station and more
recently at six substations, one of which is in the project area. The
UNDP Leribe project started last year is also investigating dry land crops
and cultivation about 40 mi north of the project area. Research has been
directed mainly at the four principal dry land crops, to investigate suitable
varieties, fertilizer rates, pests and diseases and cultivation techniques.
An expanded program on fertilizer application, in conjunction with FAO,
has been in operation since 1970, incorporating field plots throughout
all the farming areas in Lesotho, and has yielded one year's results (para 11).
In recent years, a program of irrigation research on crops and water application
rates has been started.
2.        The Animal Husbandry section has maintained stud herds of dairy-
fed beef cattle, merino sheep and angora goats, mainly for the supply of
improved nmales but also to collect information on yields and perfornance.
3.        The Research Station has started a small range and grass management
section which has initiated a scheme for highland grazing control. There
has been no work on integration of livestock with crops or on grassland
establishment and management under stock, however.
Project Research
4.        The project research staff would, as agreed with Government, make
use of the present research substation in the project area and work in close
association with the Ministry of Agriculture's Research Station at Maseru
and the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Swaziland, from where, funded
by UNDP-USAID, one of the two research officers might be seconded to work
on the project.
5.        The Project Research Officer would be provided from Ministry staff
and would have sub-tropical crop development and research, as well as some
animal husbandry, experience. The second (Field) Research Officer, provided
under the project, would have experience in fodder crops and their use
by cattle, sheep and goats, and in grassland development.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Investigational Program
Dryland Crops
6.        The investigational program would be in two parts.  Firstly, in
conjunction with the crop work being done at the UNDP Leribe Project and
Maseru Research Station, rainfed crops would be developed through improvement
in their varieties, fertilization, cultivation, control of pests and diseases
and Jntroduction of rotations, mainly of maize, wheat, beans and sorghum,
but also including crops such as sunflower, peas, potatoes, pyrethrum,
vegetables and linseed.  With these crops, investigations would be conducted
and rotations devised to incorporate fallow fodder crops and cultivation
techniques that would arrest the decline in, or build up and maintain,
soil fertility and yields, and reduce soil erosion.
Integrated Farming                                                               i
7.        Secondly, in support of integrated farming (Annex 5, Part B),
the program would investigate systems and rotations to integrate the above
crops with better animal husbandry, so as to support stock on fodder crops,
grassland, and crop residues, together with permanent grazing, and so over-
come the problems of comnunal grazing and allow the keeping of improved stock
and an increase in livestock products.
8S        Investigations would also be carried out on systems of permanent
cropping designed to maintain soil structure and fertility through fallows,
green manuring and restorative crops without the use of grass leys or
livestock. For example, a ten-acre area could be farmed on the lines of
the rotations and budget laid out in Annex 23. This involves the development
of five acres of arable land under the four crops plus planted grass leys
and fodder, fertilized at double the rates proposed for theB basic project
inputs, together with five acres of associat.ad permanent grazing to form a
basic unit, fenced to contain the associated livestock, e.g., a milk cow and
its calf and ten merino sheep or goats.
9.        Other variations would also be investigated to collect facts and             4
to serve as a teaching and demonstratiorn uinit to progressive farmers, who
might be considering better, permanent farming, stock keeping and land
usage systems.
Research Substation Development
10.       The substation at present consists of a small amunt of land
allocated by the chief, some buildings and one research assistant's house.
Field trials on rainfed crops under the direction of Maserui are carried out
each year. The project would make use of the facilities, would be allocated
further necessary land, and would provide additional housing, simple labora-
tories, and farm buildings (Annex 10).



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Fertilizer Trial Results
11.       The FAO/Ministry of Agriculture fertilizer trial program has
results available for only one complete year. These vary greatly according
to site and rainfall differences. By no means conclusive as to correct
quantities, they quite definitely indicate that increases in yield, comparable
with those predicted for the project, are likely.
12.       Records for all research program fertilizer trials have been kept
for some years and also support the yields used in the project.
Fertilizer Trials in Experimental Program
Maize        Sorghum         Wheat           Beans
Bags/acre           8-   17       12-   17       6-    9.5      5-    6
Pounds/acre    1,600-3,400   2,400-3,400   1,200-1,900   1,000-1,200
August 4, 1972



a          a



LESOTHO
TRAMA ROSIU RURAL DRyVOF2ENT PROJECT
Cost of Research
(Rand)
Unit                                                                                                  Foreign
Staff                                  Cost      Year         11/        2          3          4          5          6          Total        EMchan e
Research Officer                    12,000               12,000 (1) 12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000 (1)    72,000         64,800
Agriculturist - Trial Officer        3,080                1,540 (?)  3,200 (1)  3,320 (1)  3,440(1)   3,560 (1)  3,680 (1)    18,740           -
Field Assistants                     1,850                1,850 (1)  3,840 (2)  3,980 (2)  4,120 (2)  4,280 (2)  4,420 (2)    22,490           -
Clerk                                  520                  260 (I)    550 (1)    590 (1)    640 (1)    680 (1)    730 (1)     3,450           -
Laborer                                240                1,200 (5)  2,400 (10) 2,400 (10) 2,400 (10) 2,400 (10) 2,400 (10)   13,200           -
Sub-total                                            16,850     21,990     22,290     22,600     22,920     23,230       129,880         64,800
Staff On-Costs 40%                                        6,740      8,800      8,920      9,040      9,170      9,290         51,960        25,920
Sub-total                                            23,590     30,790     31,210     31,640     32,090     32,520       181,840         90,720
Vdehiles and Eauipnt
1 Pickup                             1,800                1,800 (1)    -          -        1,800        -          -            3,600         3,240
1 Car                                1,400                1,400 (1)    -          -        1,400        -          -            2,800         2,520
Tractor                              4,000                4,000 (1)    -                     -          -          -           4,000          3,600
Eqipwont                                                  2,000      2,000        -          -          -          -           4,000          3,200
Sub-total                                             9,200      2,000        -        3,200        -          -           14,400        12,560
iBuilis
Houses - Type A                     16,000               16,000        -                     -          -           -          16,000         9,600
- Type B                    10,600                10,600        -          -          -          -          -          10,600          6,360
- Type C                      4,400                4,400        -          -          -          -          -            4,400         2,640
Laboratory                           3,000                3,000        --                                           -           3,000         1,800
Sub-total                                            34,000        -          -          -          -           -          34,000        20,400
Maintenance and Ortion
Vehicles                             3,000                1,500Qr)  3,000 (1)  3,000 (1)  3,000 (1)  3,000 (1)  3,000 (1)    16,500          11,550
Eq9Upuent                            2,000                1,000      2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000        11,000         7,700
Housing                                                     -          850        850        850         850        850         4,250         2,125
Sub-total                                             2,500      5,850      5,850      5,850       5,850      5,850        31,750        21,375
TOTAL REZSARCH                                       69,290     38,640     37,060     40,690      37,940     38,370       261,990       145,055
1  Staff recruited during year charged proportionately.
May 25, 1972



a        a



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing
A. Marketing Institutions
1.        Agriculture in Lesotho being mainly for subsistence, existing
marketing facilities are rudimentary and almost entirely in the hands of
a few private traders.  Surplus crops can be sold through established
marketing institutions in South Africa (Cooperatives and Marketing Boards)
and this has, until recently, avoided the need for more sophisticated
institutions in Lesotho. However, in order to develop its agricultural
production, Lesotho rightfully plans to increase its marketing facilities
and rationalize marketing channels.
Traders
2.        Private traders have largely contributed to the initial development
of the country and will likely remain the only center of exchange for farmers
in remote areas. Because of poor infrastructure and the absence of a
clear-cut government policy on marketing, these traders have developed a
quasi-monopoly, leaving the farmer in a very weak bargaining position.
Although forbidden by law, most transactions are by barter, with the trader
judging quality. It is not surprising that farmers intensely dislike the
system. Moreover, farmers receive little real market incentive to achieve
increased production, specialization and improved quality. If marketing is
to be improved in the project area, alternative channels will have to be
*               sought.
3.        Some grains, such as wheat, are exported; some are sold elsewhere in
Lesotho; and others are sold locally later in the season. Farmers tend to
oversell at harvest time and repurchase grain at higher prices when foodstuffs
are scarce, e.g. during plowing. There are no statistics on traders' grain
throughput, but a store is estimated to handle 3,000 to 5,000 bags per year.
Twenty-two traders in the area handle annually an estimated production of
65,000 bags. They should not be excluded from the marketing system, since
they provide a valuable service in local exchange which could not be
profitably replaced by a more sophisticated organization. Government,
directly or through its project, could license some traders to handle grain
on its behalf and under its close control in areas where production would be
inadequate to justify establishing a separate market.
4.        The traders' main activity and source of profit is retail sale of
consumer goods. They handle grain and usually operate a simple mill, to
attract farmers to their store; but they are not very interested in grain



&N= 1I
Page 2
marketing which they find unprofitable and risky. And, since grain marketing
requires substantial capital, traders are reluctant to expand their facilities
to handle increased production.
Co-op Lesotho Ltd. (CLL)
5.        CLL  is a cooperative union and its purpose is financing supply
of inputs and marketing.  Its main activities have been supply of credit
to i ts members and supply of inputs (Annex 4, para 6). Lack of staff and
facilities has impaired the efficiency of these operations anld inputs have
often been delivered late. In 1971, Government asked CLL to market maize
and sorghum at prices fixed by Government. In a record harvest year, CLL
was unable to buy all grain offered by its members; even so, CLL bought a
total of 27,000 bags of maize and sorghum.  The prices, however, were fixed
too high (higher than equivalent prices across the border in South Africa)
and CLL is unable to resell this produce without incurring a substantial                   6
loss; and 25,000 bags are still in stock with a new harvest rnow ready for
market.  CLL, suitably strengthened, would be adequate to market project
output; but it 1lacks the expertise and facilities to carry out such a task.
It would therefore be preferable for the project to build and operate markets
in the project area as agent of CLL, but for the time being f'irmly under
the Project Manager's control. Project facilities and staff would be taken
over by CLL at an appropriate time.
6.        This arrangement would be Jeopardized if Government recuested CLL
to act as agent only for a proposed Grain Control Board, at fixed prices and
margins (para 7). In that event, CGL would lose its flexibility and
competitiveness with the private traders, and the project would need to
receive from Government the authority to operate an independent marketing
organization under separate regulations.
Grain Control Board
7.        Government's unsuccessful attempt tGo f-x maize and sorghum prices
pointed to the need for a carefully considered long-term Govern-ment policy                 w
on marketing.  This led to a proposal to establish a marketing board, on
South African lines.  Since Lesotho has onl.y limited expertise and
facilities available, it is unlikely that it could effectively engage in a
sophisticated mrarketing exercise.  Government's difficult financial situation
also limits the funds it could provide for a marketing organization, which
would thus probably have to rely entirely on a levy to cover its costs at
the farmers' expense. Sophisticated marketing, moreover, would not appear
to be warranted, because Lesotho's agricultural exports are absorbed by the
South African market wzhere the marketing boards make policy decisions and
set prices, limiting the margin of independent decision in Lesotho. Until
more data, staff and finance are available, it would seem appropriate to
concentrate oni 'irnimum control measures. These would include:
(a) issue of grade specifLications and enforcement of
their application;



ANNEX 1i
Page 3
(b) collection of data from traders and other marketing
channels; and
(c) licensing of dealers in grain to ensure that they meet
criteria laid down by the controlling body and provide
the data required, e.g. quantities purchased and sold,
by grade and price.
8.        Fixing floor prices would be useful in stabilizing farmers' income
in years of overproduction. However, until adequate storage and finance
to buy all quantities offered at the published price are available, floor
prices would not be very meaningful.
Milling and Processing
9.        Only limited quantities of maize and sorghum are currently being
processed within Lesotho. Hammer mills owned by traders grind a farmer's
production for his own consumption. Two industrial mills, with an annual
capacity of about 40,000 bags each, operate within less than 13 km of the
project area. The Lesotho National Development Cooperation, in conjunction
with a South African milling company, plans to set up a mill at Ficksburg
Bridge, to start operations in October/November, 1973, with an annual capacity
of about 350,000 bags. Although the mill is appropriately situated near
important maize-producing areas in Lesotho and South Africa, it would be
about 100 km from the project area. Transportation costs would make it
cheaper to carry maize from the project to the smaller mills now in Lesotho,
or to mills across the border in South Africa; and then to purchase maize
meal from the same factories. Although it is recognized that additional
milling facilities would assist Lesotho development, maize producers and
consumers in the project area may not benefit from the new mill.
Lesotho Farmers' Produce Marketing Cooperation (LFPMC)
10.       LFPMC is a statutory corporation created in May, 1971 within the
Ministry of Agriculture to handle livestock marketing. Nine auction centers
have been constructed throughout the country and are managed by a South
African auctioneering company. This company takes 6% commission from buyers,
mainly South African. LFPMC imposes a levy of R 1.5 per cattle, 1.0 per
pig and 0.5 per sheep marketed. If sellers, farmers or traders consider
the price offered inadequate, they can withdraw their animals, which LFPHC
will then arrange to ship instead to the Durban abattoir. Durban prices,
however, have generally been lower than on the auction floors, and direct
sales to Durban have decreased in recent months.  Since LFPMC was created
exports of cattle have come under its exclusive control and official figures
show a sharp decline in such exports (Table 2), partly because statistics have
become more accurate. At the same time, imports of cattle have been pro-
hibited. The Lesotho Government envisages an abattoir near Maseru, which
would rely on a partial throughput of cattle from South Africa to reach full



ANNEX 11
Page 4
capacity. Although this abattoir would offset the lack of nearby slaughtering
facilities in South Africa, it seems unlikely to be economically viable
unless Lesotho sales of cattle increase considerably.
B. Project Marketing, Storage and Transportation
11.       In the project area, licensed traders would be allowed to continue
to market graira, as at present. The project would provide marketing facilities
for project farmers, to absorb their additional output. It would operate
as agent for CLL, at prices agreed in consultation with CLL and Govern-
ment. The funds would be provided by commercial banks, as they now provide
funds to CLL, i.e. at rates applicable to Government-sponsored enterprises
and with suitable Government assurances as to repayment. Annual operating
costs at full development would be deducted in arriving at market prices.
Storage would be required for the additional project production to be
purchased, and also for project inputs, mainly seed and fertilizer. Four
main markets and stores and up to six secondary buying points would be
located in the field and one main store at the Maseru railhead. Estimated
capacity is based on the assumption that only 30% of grain would remain in
store at any one time, with 50% of beans and 50% of inputs. The beans woul
advantageously remain longer in store, to await the higher seasonal price in
South Africa. A total of six trucks of seven-ton capacity would be needed
to transport crops and inputs. Details are in Tables 3 and 4.
C. Markets and Prices
12.       South Africa usually has excess maize% sorghum and wheat; and bean
production within the South African Customs Union would exceed estimated
consumption at full project development.  The Customs Union requires free
circulation of goods throughout the Union  hic^  includes Lesotho, and the
South African authorities will accept exports from Lesotho on the same terms            6
as for South African farmers - but without subsidies. This will be maintained
as long as Lesotho continues to allow free circulation of farm products from
South Africa across its border. In South Africa, marketing of crops is
controlled by Marketing Boards. Prices fixed by these Boards are usually
higher than world market prices and it is expected that, except for some
beans which might be exported through South African brokers, project output
would be sold on the South African market.
Maize
13.       There are no reliable statistics on Lesotho maize production, but
the Ministry of Agriculture estimates annual production at about 95,000 tons.
Lesotho 4S officially a net importer of about 30,000 tons (300,000 bags)
of maize per year (Table 5). In addition to these officially recorded
imports, about 11,000 tons are believed to be smuggled in each year and



ANNE_
Page 5
about another 11,000 tons come in under the Food Aid Program. 70% of these
imports are in the form of maize meal. Although Lesotlho is known to export
maize grain for milling, no figures are available. At full development,
the project would increase annual maize production by about 3,800 tons
(42,000 bags). This production could be exported for milling or be milled
in Lesotho (para 9).
14.       The South African Maize Board's operations vary according to
region. Most Lesotho imports come from a region in which South African
producers are compelled to sell to the Board or its agents who, in turn,
are required by law to buy and store all graded maize offered at the fixed
Board price. Producer prices, fixed each year in March or April, take
into account changes in production cost, expected crop size, consumption,
exports and the position of the Board's stabilization fund. The Board's
selling price is determined by its operating costs, aided by a Government
0             subsidy, which has steadily increased over the last five years to reach
R 0.47 per bag in 1971/72. This amount was approximately equivalent to the
Maize Board's operating costs so that, in effect, the Board resells
maize at the producer price. The Board also controls the millers and fixes
the price of maize meal.
15.       South Africa is a regular exporter of maize, though the quantity
varies enormously, depending on the harvest. The average percentage of
production exported over the last five years was about 28%. Export prices
for white maize averaged R 4.21 per bag (US$61.7/ton ex-warehouse) in
1970/71. Further details are in Tables 6 and 7. The South African Govern-
ment requires the Lesotho authorities to collect the equivalent of the
South African subsidy on each bag imported. This levy is then donated to a
Maize Meal Fund which the Lesotho Government can use for agricultural
development purposes. It presently totals about R 300,000.
16.       Farmers' price calculations (Table 8) are based on the South
African Maize Board price. Although some incremental maize production would
be milled locally, the price would be similar to the South African price.
Lesotho millers purchase lower qualities, thus offsetting the higher trans-
portation costs and taxes. The South African Maize Board's price for the
best grade of maize was R 3.70 in 1971/72. Allowing for R 0.41/bag for
transport and marketing, and deducting bagging costs, the Farmer price would
average R 3.00/bag (Table 8) compared with current farm-gate prices paid by
traders, believed to be about R 2.50/bag. In 1970/71, Government fixed the
maize price at R 4.00/bag, best grade.
Sorghum
17.       There are no reliable statistics on Lesotho sorghum production,
marketing and export. The Ministry of Agriculture estimates that annual
production fluctuates around 42,000 tons and tne exports would be around
3,600 tons in a good year. Although sorghum has a lower value than other
crops, it is favored by Lesotho farmers because it will grow when the
rains are poor and other crops likely to fail. At full development, the
project would increase annual sorghum production by about 2,600 tons or
28,000 bags.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
18.       In South Africa, sorghum is handled by the Maize Board under a
floor price system. Traders are free to buy and sell sorghum without
restriction. In certain areas, the Board purchases sorghum through registered
agents at an announced fixed price, and then resells it to millers at the
producer price increased by R 0.5 per bag to cover handling cost. All
manufacturers of sorghum products have to register with the Board. In
main producing areas, they must also inform the Board of their monthly
transactions. Manufacturers of sorghum malt pay a special levy to a fund
used to cover losses on exports. In 1970/71, sorghum consnmption in South
Africa reached 300,000 tons.  The floor price is determined 'y similar
criteria as for maize, and in 1971/72 was R 3.45/bag, best grades.  The
Board's selling price was R 3.95/bag. Further details are in Tables 6 and 7.
19.       It is expected that the R 3.45/bag, delivered South Africa, would
be paid for sorghum of the best Lesotho quality. After deduction of costs,
and marketing commission of R 0.10, the farmer price would be R 2.70/bag
(Table 8) compared with about R 2.40/bag believed to be currently paid by
traders. For the 1970/71 buying season, the Lesotho Government fixed the
price of sorghum at R 4.00/bag, best grade.
Wheat
20.       Wheat production is estimated by the Ministry of Agriculture to
average about 19,500 tons/year. Annual exports averaged 69000 tons over the
last six years but with wide fluctuations (Table 5). Lesotho wheat is, on
average, a good quality soft (Class B) wneat. At full development, the
project is expected to increase average annual wheat exports by about
6,000 tons or 67,000 bags (compared with South African annual consumption
of 1.2 M tons).
21.       In South Africa, wheat is controlled by the Wheat Industry Control
Board (WICB) under a system similar to that used by the Maize Board. Wgheat
prices are controlled from producer to consumer; all agents handling wheat
and/or wheat products have to register with th.- Board.  Total annual wheat
production in South Africa is now about 1.  million tons and imports from              6
overseas average about 240,000 tons, excluaing imports from Lesotho.  Producer
prices are fixed as for maize, but with a particular emphasis on quality.
All grains have to be delivered in new bags. In view of increasing wheat
production in South Africa, only prices for grade A and B wheats are expected
to be maintained. There are no exports from South Africa, but about 240,000
tons were in stock at the end of 1969/70. The Wheat Industry Control Board
is represented in Lesotho by Frasers, a long-established South African
retail and wholesale trading company. Frasers' thus has a monopoly of
official wheat exports to South Africa. With additional storage and
transportation facilities, the project would take care of its own wheat
exports if Fraser's services or prices proved inadequate. 1/
1/   Though no proper data are available, there are some indications that
prices paid by Frasers do not correspond to the regulations imposed
by the W4heat Industry Control Board.



AINEX 11
Page 7
22.       Since wheat exported from Lesotho is already of good quality, 11
no improvement has been assumed. The price of 95% of Lesotho wheat in 1971/72
was P 6.43/bag delivered Fraser's. After deduction of costs, including
R 0.10/bag for cleaning and a marketing commission of R 0.06, the farmer
price would be R 5.20/bag (Table 8). Traders are thought to pay about
R 4.50/bag.
Beans
23.       No statistics on Lesotho bean and pea production are available,
but the Ministry of Agriculture estimates annual production at around 5,400
tons. The variety is mainly Small White Haricot, used for canning. Bear
exports from Lesotho to South Africa have increased from 635 tons in 1968
to about 1,360 tons in 1971 (Table 5).  There is a strong South African
demand for Lesotho beans because of their high quality.  Low labor costs
in Lesotho allow careful cleaning and hand sorting, which produces a better
result than the mechanical cleaning which is necessary in South Africa. At
full development, project production would be about 3,600 tons or 40,000 bags.
24.       Detailed statistics on the South African market for beans are in
Tables 6 and 7. Purchases of peas and beans averaged 47,400 tons/year over
the last five years, while local consumption was about 48,100 tons/year.
The difference was provided through imports and carry-over stocks from a
record production of about 70,000 tons in 1967/68. Production of Small
White Haricots in South Africa in 1970/71 was 5,270 tons, while consumption
was 6,630 tons. The difference between consumption and production was met
by imports, mainly from Lesotho. About one-third of project incremental
production, corresponding to 68% of Small 1White Haricot production in South
Africa, could be absorbed by South African consumers. The remainder would
need to be exported on the world market (para 12).
25.       Marketing of dry beans in South Africa is controlled by the Dry
Bean Board.  The Board operates a floor-price system and carries out marketing
research.  Funds are provided through levies collected from the trade.  An
ordinary levy covers the Board's operating cost and amounts to R 0.11/bag;
a special reserve fund levy covers losses on exports and is R 0.17/bag.
Records show that only middle and lower grade beans were purchased by the
Board at the floor price. Higher grades, which correspond to the Lesotho
production, have always fetched higher prices than those fixed by the Board.
26.       The world market for dry beans is about 350,000 tons.  Producers
are mainly the United States and Canada. Consumers, mainly the United Kingdom
and Japan, each take about 70,000 tons/year. The Common Market countries
consume 40/100,000 tons/year. Prices cif UK ports have declined from the
1970 average of US$395 to US$295 per mt in 1971 and are projected to decline
further to US$238 per mt in 1975 in terms of constant dollars.
1/   According to the WICB statistics, for the last five years, 95% of
Lesotho wheat exports were of the B2 category.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
27.       A sample of Lesothan and South African lots was sent to the United
Kingdom in 1971. The price cif UK port was R 225 (US$285) per metric ton.
Freight costs were R 14 and commission, R 15 per metric ton. Thus, the fob
Durban price was R 196 per metric ton. Transportation costs and profits
within South Africa amounted to R 16, resulting in a price of R 180 per metric
ton or R 16 per bag cleaned beans at the Lesotho border. Assuming a decline
in the cif UK price to R 189 (US$238) per metric ton for exported beans, the
Lesotho border price would become R 13.1/bag. The increased Lesotho
production for sale in South Africa would depress prices on that market
to R 16 per bag resulting in a Lesotho border price of R 15.2/bag. Assuming
that 1/3 of the production is exported on the world market and 2/3 on the
South African market, the average price at the Lesotho border would be
R 14.5/bag.  The equivalent producer price would then be US$13.00/bag
(Table 8).
Attached:  Tables 1-8
August 4, 1972
J



ANNEX II 
Table 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total and Marketed Production-
1. In 1969/70 (thousand tons)
/2
Lesotho                            Project Area-
Produced   Marketed    %             Produced   Marketed    %
Maize              95          19      20               8.2         2.5     30
Sorghum            42          10      25               5.4         1.6     30
Wheat              58          18      30               2.3         1.4     60
Beans               5           2      40               0.9         0.4     40
Total        200         49       24              16.8        5.9      35
2.   At full project development (1979/80)
(a)  Additional production from project (all marketed)
Normal   Average (90%)/3         Normal   Average (90%)L2
Ö____('QQQ bags)-----            ------Ö(000 tons)-
Maize            48.00         42.24               4.35          3.83
Sorghum          32.00        28.16                2.90         2.56
Wheat            75.00         66.50               6.80          6.04
Beans            44.40        39.60                4.03         3.59
Total     198.40        176.60              18.08         16.02
(b)  Total produced and marketed in project areas ('000 tons) on average
Produced                       Marketed
Preproject  Project  Total    Preproject  Project  Total   % Rounded
Maize         8.2       3.8    12.0         2.5         3.8      6.3       50
Sorghum      5.4        2.6     8.0         1.6         2.6     4.2        50
Wheat         7.3       6.0      8.3        1.4         6.0      7.4       20
Beans        0.9        3.6     4.5         0.4         3.6     4.0        90
Total  16.8       16.0    32.8         5.9        16.0    21.9        70
/1   Estimates are based on statistics that are not very reliable, but give a
reasonable indication.  1969/70 was chosen for the production estimate as
it was considered a normal year for most crops, wheat excepted.
/2   Production estimates for Lesotho are from the Five-Year Plan and, for the
project area, according to mission appraisal. Estimates on maximum mar-
keted production for Lesotho are based on the 1971 FAO report on marketing
of grains and pulses in Lesotho by Dr. Creuplandt (TA-3025); revised
upwards for wheat and beans in the light of 1970 and 1971 export figures.
/3   Allows for 50% crop failure one year in five.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 1 1
Table 2
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lesotho Livestock Statistics
1.  Imports and exports-
Years                Cattle                            Sheep and Goats
Imports   Exports   Net Exports    Imports   Exports   Net Exports
1961/62   19,956    8,828        (11,128)       6,602      1,444       (5,158)
1962/63   22,704   12,164        (10,540)       8,224      4,071       (4,153)
1963/64   17,843   11,883         (5,960)       5,724      4,654       (1,070)
1964/65   13,859   11,906         (1,953)       5,469    10,693         5,224          U
1965/66    8,724   12,976          4,252        5,654      9,063        3,409
1966/67    9,937   13,353          3,416        7,714      5,428       (2,286)
1967/68    5,239   18,353         13,114        8,956    16,539         7,583
1968/69    4,355   15,299         10,944        8,321    25,852        17,531
1969/70    4,730   11,408          6,678        12,862    16,143        3,281
1970/71      -       3,032         3,032          -        1,7381,738
Average   10,735   11,920          1,185         7,725    10,432        2,707
2.   Lesotho Farmers' Produce Marketing Corporation (LFPMC) activities/
During the first eight months of the corporation's operations (May
1971 - January 1972), 3,032 cattle, 1,738 sheep and goats, and 41 pigs were
sold. Average recorded prices per head were:
Rand
Oxen (1947)           71
Cows (229)            41                                          0
Bulls (258)           59
At the Durban abattoir (650 km from Maseru), 598 cattle were sold at an
average price of R 77/head. Deducting transportation: R 3.65; food and
transit: R 0.13; slaughter: R 0.53; abattoir fees: R 0.65; commission: R 2.53;
South African levy: R 0.77, a total of R 8.23, leaves a net farmer price
per head of R 68.77.
/1   Up to 1969/70:  statistics provided by the Veterinary Services;
1970/71 provided by LFPMC first eight months of operation.
/2   Ministry of Agriculture.  Economics and Marketing Annual Report of 1971.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 11
Table 3
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Storage Capacity at Full Development
I. Inputs
/1     Per Main    /2
Ferti-                      Storage Capacity-  Store Equivalent-
lizer   Seeds  Input Req. Total          Sept.         March
Acres   kg/ac   kg/ac    tons       ----      Cubic meters  ---------
Maize      7,200    100      7.5        774    2,407         300
Sorghum   4,800    100       5.0        504    1,567        200             -
Wheat    12,000    100    20.0        1,440    4,480          -            560
Beans    12,000    100    15.0        1,380    4,293        540           540
Total    36,000                       4,098   12,747      1,040          1,100
II.  Project Farmers' Marketed Production
/3                         /1      Per Main       /2
In Store-         Storage Capacity-    Store Equivalent-
Total   April-July Sept-Dec  April-July Sept-Dec  April-July Sept-Dec
-----tons-----------  ---------------cubic meters--------------
Maize      4,350       1,450      -          4,510       -            565       -
Sorghum   2,900          970      -          3,020       -            380       -
.       Wheat      6,800         -        2,270         -        7,050          -        880
Beans     4,020        1,010     1,010       3,130      3,130         390       390
Total    18,070       3,430      3,280      10,660    10,180        1,335    1,270
Since at maximum capacity it is expected that half the inputs would be
stored while the crop is being bought, capacity in terms of cu m would
not exceed 2,000.  However, because inputs have to be stored separately
from crops and because of identity problems with the crop itself, the
main stores would need to be 15 m x 45 m x 3.5 m = 2362 cu m and the
secondary stores 9 m x 36 m x 3.5 m = 1,134 cu m. The extra capacity
would be required for the production from the integrated farming
programs.
/1   With 20% circulation allowance, 3.11 cu m are required per ton.
/2   With 5 main stores, and 6 stores with half the capacity of the main
stores, the total storage is the equivalent of 8 main stores. This
total storage capacity has been divided by 8 to determine the capacity
of one main store.
/3   One-third of the grains and half the beans.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX I 1
Table 4
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPfENT PROJECT
Proposed Marketing Facilities
Head Office       Major Markets        Secondary Markets
Number                   1                  4                      6
Location         Maseru             Ntsi, Mokema Area,  Roma, Thuate, Machache
Faku and to be      and to be determined
determined                                          4
Market Capacity  2,362 Cu m         2,362 cu m           1,134 cu m
+ office space
Houses            1 A type          1 C type
1 B type          1 Duplex (type D)
Vehicles         2 seven-ton        I seven-ton truck
trucks          1/3 4-wheel drive
1 car               vehicles /1
.tfff            1 Marketing and   1 Marketing           4 Watchmen/Laborers
Credit Officer    Supervisor           (of which 2 for
(overall                               6 months only)
management)
1 Deputy
Marketing Officer
1 Assistant
Accountant
1 Clerk           1 Clerk/Storekeeper
3 Drivers         1 Driver
4 Watchmen/
Laborers          4 Watchmen/Laborers
/1   The vehicles would be shared with Credit and Extension and be replaced
by a car after 5 years.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 11
Table 5
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imports and Exports (Lesotho/South Africa)
1.   Maize Imports
Years           Bags           '000 Tons
1961/62        163,307             14.8
1962/63        240,337            21.8
1963/64        225,901            20.5
1964/65        302,949            27.5
1965/66        450,040            40.2
1966/67        319,085            28.9
1967/68        154,796             14.0
1968/69        362,090             32.8
1969/70        320,085             23.0
1970/71        391,872             35.6
2.   Sorghum Exports
Exports are estimated to reach 40,000 bags or 3,600 tons
in a good production year. No other statistics are available.
3.   Wheat Exports
Quantity                           Average Price
Years        200 lb Bags        '000 tons        per Bag in R
1964/65         122,535             11.1              5.63
1965/66          30,235              2.7              5.54
1966/67           5,672              0.5              5.82
1967/68          22,086              2.0              6.00
1969/70         150,120             13.6              6.17
1970/71          23,353              2.1              6.01
4.   Bean Exports
Years          200 lb Bags          '000 tons
1968/69            7,000                0.6
1969/70           11,000                1.0
1970/71           15,000                1.4
June 30, 1972



a
6



ANNEX 1 1
Table 6
Page 1
LESOTHO
TIAB A BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
South African Statistics
1.  Maize
Producer2
Production Imports Exports- Consumption  Export Price    Price
Ö---(thousand metric tons)---------  R/mt   R/bag    R/bag
1966/67    5,056      153        482       4,237     n.a.    n.a.      3.58
1967/68    9,762       -       3,111       4,233    36.26    3.29      3.35
1968/69    5,316       -       2,956       4,691    35.38    3.21      3.35
1969/70    5,340      503        947       4,884    42.22    3.83      3.60
1970/71    6,133       73      1,302       5,149    46.36    4.21      3.55
Average    6,321       146     1,760       4,639    40.32    3.66      3.49
2.   Sorghum
1966/67      336       91         42         301    37.04    3.36      3.20
1967/68      844      182        372         310    36.03    3.27      3.30
1968/69      207       -         109         287    34.48    3.13      4.00
1969/70      232      182         -          228      -        -       3.40
1970/71      445       -         103         304    36.42    3.30      3.45
Average      413       91        125         286    35.89    3.26      3.40
/1  Including exports to Lesotho, Swaziland and Botswana.
/2   Best grades maize, sorghum and wheat in bags; 1971/72 maize price
R 3.70/bag.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 11
Table 6
Page  2
/1                              Producer/2
Production Imports Exports-  Consumption  Export Price    Price
-(thousand metric tons)---------  R/mt   R/bag    R/bag
3.   Wheat
/3
1966J67      568       808        -         1,107       -       -        5.75X
1967/68    1,100       211         -        1,151       -       -        6.05
1968/69    1,345        13        -         1,068       -       -        6.05
1969/70    1,396       140        -         1,242       -       -        6.35
Average    1,135       237                  1,121                        6.09              6
4.   Beans & Peas
/4        /5                                                 /7
1966/67    37.9-    7.54-    0.23            43.7     n.a.   n.a.       14.00-
1967'168    68.1      0.85      0.91         49.2     n.a.   n.a.       12.00
1968/69    50.3       0.80      4.21         56.6      n.a.   n.a.      14.05
1969/70    42.1       2.14      3.28         42.7      n.a.   n.a.      13.20
1970/71    38.5       2.90      1.65         48.1      197    17*9L6   13.96
Average    47.4       2.84      2.06         48.1                       13.29
/1   Including exports to Lesotho, Swaziland and Botswana.                                 4
/2   Best grades maize, sorghum and wheat in bags; 1971/72 maize price
R 3.70/bag.
/3   For Grade Bl, after deduction of the trader's commission.
/4   Marketed; Dry Bean Board estimate.
/5   Exclusive of imports from Lesotho, Swaziland and Botswana.
/6   Fob Durban price; one lot exported to U.K.
/7   Average producer price for Small White Haricot over the main marketing
months.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 1 1
Table 7
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Prices per grade-
(Rand)
1.   Maize White
Grades           Producer price in 1970/71
per ton            per bag
WD1              39.13              3.55
WD2              38.58              3.50
WD3              37.48              3.40
WF1              37 75              3.42
WF2              36.93-             3.35
2.   Sorghum
Producer price in 1971/72
Grades                 (floor price)
per ton            per bag
KR1              38.03              3.45
KR2              36.93              3.35
£M1              36.93              3.35
KM2              35.83              3.25
KW1              38.03              3.45
KF1              35.83              3.25
KF2              34.72              3.15
KF3              33.62              3.05
/1   Delivered in bags.
/2   This price was increased in 1971/72 to R 3.70/bag.  The
Lesotho importer also pays the Board's operating costs
of R 0.47/bag.



ANNEX 11
Table 7
Page 2
3.   Wheat
Producer Price in 1971/72 after Deduction of Trader's
Commission of R 1.65/ton
Grades    Class A   Class B   Class C        Class A   Class B   Class C
Ö----     Per ton ----------      ----------Per bag----------
Super       77.04        -         -           6.99        -          -
1        75.94      74.29      72.64         6.89       6.74       6.59
2        73.18      70.83      69.88         6.64       6.43       6.34
3          -        66.37      64.72          -         6.03       5.87
4           -         -        58.11          -          -         5.27
4.   Beans:  Small White Haricot Producer Prices                                           4
High Quality Cleaned Beans
1968/69    Average Prices          Purchased by Broker-monthly Averages
Floor price        1971                Highest  Lowest    May    Sept
DB1S        -       April    13.56
DBI         -
DB2     12,000      May       13.76   1970    20.00    14.75   15.00   16.75
DB3     11,000      June      14.37   1971    18.00    13.50   16.00   15.50
DB4     10,000      July      15.14
Average  13.96
June 30, 1972                                                                              4



ANNEX I 1
Table 8
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Marketing Costs and Farmers' Prices
(Rand)
1.   Marketing Costs - Operating
Staff/I                                                        39,600
Vehicles/Z                                                     13,000
Replacements/2                                                  6,000
Building maintenance (2.5%)                                     3,300
Building depreciation (over 25 years)                           5,300
Equipment (scales, tarpaulins, office equipment)                1,600
Equipment depreciation (10% of 10,000)                          1,000
6~9 , 800
Contingency 5% on costs, other than staff                  1,500
71 ,300
Cost per bag for 176,000 bags        R 0.41r3
2.   Farmers' Prices (per 200 lb bag)
Wheat
Maize    Sorghum    (B grade)       Beans
Delivered in bag
for best grade               3.70       3.45       6.43         14.50
2% loss on net                 0.07       0.07        0.12         0.29
3.63      3.38        6.31         14.21
Transport and
marketing                    0.41       0.41        0.41         0.41
Bagging                         0.10      0.10        0.42          0.10
Cleaning 4                        -         -         0.10
Interest-                      0.07       0.07        0.12         0.58
Subtotal                  0.58       0.58        1.05         1.09
Net price                 3.05       2.80       5.26         13.12
Reserve margin/5               0.05       0.10        0.06         0.12
Farmgate price            3.00       2.70       5.20         13.00
/1   Excludes expatriate Marketing/Credit Officer, but includes 25% of the
Deputy Marketing Officer and the Accountant Assistant who would be
assigned to Marketing Headquarters.
/2   Vehicles operating and replacement costs assume that cars at market
site would be used half the time by Credit and Extension.
/3   Costs have been allocated to project production, excluding the
integrated farming program.
/    At the current annual commercial rate of 9%; four months for cereals
and six months for beans.
/5   Upward rounding.
June 30, 1972



a        a 



.4MSA IOSIU AU-RfaDMAPU    18103501
Cost Ofa i            s
unit                                                                                                  Foreign
Staff                                   Cost       Tear                     2         3          4          5          6              Iotal   Exchane
Senior CreditMiarketing Officer2Y    12,000                  6,000       6,000 (4)  6,000 (4)  6,000 (O)  6,000 (O)  6,000 (6 )  36,000      32,400
Deputy Marketing Officer              3,080                  1,540 (4)   3,200 (1)  3,320 (1)  3,440 (1)  3,560 (1)  3,840 (1)  18,900          -
Acountant Assistant,                    860                    860 (1)     900 (1)    950 (1)  1,000 (1)  1,050 (1)  1,090 (1)   5,850          _
Marketing Supervisor/Grader           1,850                  1,850 (1)   5,690 (3)  7,770 (4)  8,040 (4)  8,330 (4)  8,620 (4)  40,300          -
Clerk/StorEeeper                        690                    690 (1)   2,910 (4)  3,770 (5)  4,070 (5)  4,330 (5)  4,600 (5)  20,370
Driver                                  690                    690 (1)   2,910 (4)  3,770 (5)  5,450 (7)  5,810 (7)  6 160 (7)  24,720          -
lVatclaa/Laborers                       240                    960 (4)   3,360 (14) 5,280 (22) 7,200 (30) 7,680 (32) 7 680 (32) 32,160          -
Sub-total                                               12,590      24,970    30,860     35,200     36,760     37,990     178,370         32,400
Staff On-Costs 40X                                           5,040       9,990     12,340    14,O80    14,700      15,200      71,350        12,960
Sub-total                                               17,630      34,960     43,200    49,280     51,460     53,190     249,720         45,360
Vehicls eA ZoujMant
7-ton Lorry                           5,300                  5,300 (1)   5,300 (1) 10,600(2) 10,600(2)  5,300 (1)  5,300 (1)  42,400         38,160
4-h^eel Driye,./                      3,200                  2,130 (b)   1,070 (a)  1,070 (a)    -         -          -         4,270          3,840
Cars                                  1,400                  1,480 (1)     -       1,400 (1)    -        1,400 (1)    -         4,200          3,780
KqmiPest                              2,000                  4,000 (2)   2,000 (1)  2,000 (1)  2,000 (1)    -         -        10,000          9,000
Sub-total                                               12,830       8,370     15,070    12,600      6,700      5,300      60,870         54,780
buildinga - Cntuto
i0,100                 20,200 (2)  10,100 (1) 10,100 (1) 10,100 (1)    -         -        50,500         30,300
Secondary  larkets                  5,100                    _         5,100 (1) 10,200 (2) 10,200 (2)  5,100 (1)    -       30,600         18,360
Office nd Shed                      2,000                  4,000 (2)   2,000 (1)  2,000 (1)    -         -          -         8,000          4,800
Sub-total                                               24,200      17,200     22,300    20,300      5,100        -        89,100         53,460
A Tye Rouse                        16,000                  8,000 (4)     -          -          -         -          -         8,000          4,800
J Type Home                        10,600                 10,600 (1)     -          -          _         _          _        10,600          6,360
C Type Bouse                        4,400                  8,800 (2)   4,400 (1)  4,400 (1)    -         -          -        17,600         10,560
Duplex                              6,300                 12,600 (2)    ,300(1)  6,300 (1)    -          -          -        25,200         15,120
Sub-total                                               40,000      10,700     10,700        -         -          -        61,400         36,840
Ma1 tec ad Operatin
Maehiles
2,100                  2,100(1)   4,200(2)   8,400(4) 12,600(6) 12,600(6) 12,600(6)  52,500             36,750
4-iweel Drive                       1,600                  1,070 (b)   1,600 (1)  2,140 (c)  2,140 (c)  1,070 (b)    570 (a)   8,590         6,010
Cars                                1,200                  1,200(1)   1,200(1)  1,200(1)  1, 200(1)  2,000 (d)  2,400 (2)   9,200            6,440
ISquisat                              400                    800(2)   1,200(3)  1,600(4)  1,600(4)  1,600(4)  1,600(4)   8,400               5,880
Sub-total                                                5,170       8,200     13,340     17,540     17,270    17,170      78,690         55,080
L2-A)                                                -         1,800      2,500      3,320      3,830      3,960     15,410         10,790
Sub-total                                                5,170      10,000     15,Rh0     20,860     21,100     21,130     94,100         65,870
Working Cit41-/                                                  -        19,500     45,500     65,000    130,000    130,000     390,000          -
TOTAL M&Tff1TIG                                          99,830    100I730   152,610    168,040    214,360    209,620      945,190       256,310
Proced of                                                        -          (550)    (3,310)   (11,030)   (22,060)   (44,120)    (81,070)         -
TOTAL iUis RBQURED                                       99,830    100,180    149,300    157,010    192,300    165,500     864,120        256,310
S/ 8taff racruited during year charged proportionately.        (a) one-third     (c) one and one-third
ZI Shared with Credit Services.                               (b) two-thirds     (J) one and v-'ethirds
/ Shared with Extension ead Credit Services.
Corre ends to incremental wheat purchases, which exceed earlier maize, sorghum and bean purchases, sold before wheat purchases.
j/ Income from sales proceeds at RO.41/bag.
may 26, 1972                                                                                                                                              1



i    aBi



0 ~~~~ _d
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEV9LOrENT ROJEUCT
Cost of Credit Services
(Rand)
Unit                                                                                                     Foreign
Staff                                        Cost         Year                     2          3          4          5          6         Total       ESEEange
Senior Credit/Marketing OfficerY         12,000                     6,000(4)   6,000 ()  6,000 ()  6,000 ()  6,000 (4)  6,000 ()  36,000            32,400
Deputy Credit Officer                     3,080                     1,540 ()  3,200 (1)  3,320 (l)  3,440 (1)  3,560 (1)  3,840 (1)  18,900            -
Credit Accountant                         1,850                       925 ()  1,920 (1)  1,990 (1)  2,060 (1)  2,140 (1)  2,210 (1)  11,245           -
Credit Supervisowa                        1,850                     1,850 (1)  5,690 (2)  7,770 (3)  8,040 (4)  8,330 (4)  8,620 (4)  40,300           -
Credit Assistants                           910                       910 (1)  1,920 (2)  2,930 (3)  4,900 (5)  9,680 (10) 14,730 (15) 35,070          -
Accountiug Assistants                        860                      860 (1)  2,660 (3)  3,750 (4)  4,710 (5)  4,930 (5)  5,170 (5)  22,080           -
Clerks                                       520                      520(1)  1,620(3)  2,250(4)   2,940(5)  3,150(5)   3,370(5)  13,850               -
Sub.total                                                      12,605     23,010     28,010     32,090     37,790     43,940     177,445         32,400
Staff On-Costs 40%                                                  5,040      9,200     11,200     12,840     15,120     17,580      70,980         12,960
Sub-total                                                      17,645     32,210     39,210     44,930.   52,910      61,520     248,425        45,360
Vehiclee and EqAuimnt
4-Wheel Drive3/                            3,200                    2,130(b)  1,070 (a)  1,070()       -          -          -         4,270          3,840
Cars                                       1,400                    2,800(2)    -         1,400(1)   1,400(1)   1,400 (1)  1,400(1)   8,400           7,560
motorcycles                                  450                      900 (2)    900 (2)  2,700 (6)  2,250 (5)  3,600 (8)  4,500 (10) 14,850         13,370
Equipment                                  L.S.                     4,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000       9,000          8,100
Sub.tota1                                                       9,830      2,970      6,170      4,650      6,000      6,900      36,520         32,870
Buildin&s
Houses - Type A                           16,000                    8,000(O)    -           -          -          -          -          8,000         4,800
- Type B                           10,600                   10,600 (1)    -          -          -          -          -         10,600         6,360
- Type C                            4,400                   13,200 (3)  4,400(1)  4,400 (1)     -          -          -         22,000        13,200
- Type D                            6,300                   12,600 (2)  6,300(l)  6,300 (1)    -           -          -        25,200         15,120
Sub-total                                                      44,400     10,700     10,700        -          -           -        65,800        39,480
iNtene       Operaio
4-Wheel Drive                              1,600                    1,070(b)   1,600(1)   2,140(c)   2,140(c)   1,070(b)      530(4)    8,550         5,990
Cars                                       1,200                    2,400(2)  2,400(2)  2,400(2)   2,400(2)  3,200(f)   3,600(3)  16,400             11,480
Notorcycles                                  300                      900 (3)  1,200 (4)  3,000 (10) 4,800 (16) 6,900 (23) 8,700 (29) 25,500         17,850
Equiprent                                                                        500        500         500        500        500       2,500         1,750
Computerization                                                       _          -          500        700       1,000      1,000       3,200         2,240
Sub-total                                                       4,370      5,700      8,540      10,540     12,670     14,330      56,150        39,310
TOTAL CREDIT                                                   72         580        64 6200                           82,750     4             157,020
1/ Staff recruited during year charged proportionately.               (a) one-third
2/ Shared with Marketing Services,                                   (b) two-thirds
; Shared with Extension and Marketing Services.                       (c) one and one-third
(f) two and two-thirds
May 25, 1972                                                                                                                                                        w



a        a



ANNEX 14
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Development and Communications
Present Communications
1.        Public roads in the project area are shown on the Map.  Maseru,
the capital of Lesotho, is linked to the project area by a paved road, and
from this, one major secondary road runs through part of the area.  Various
access roads connect with these two roads, but they are in bad condition
because of poor drainage.
2.        Maseru has a railhead linked with the South African Railway
system.
3.        There are three flights weekly from Maseru to Johannesburg.  Tn
addition Lesotho Airways operates daily commercial passenger, freight and
postal services, linking Maseru with over twenty other centers within
Lesotho. There are five airstrips' either in the project area, or close to it.
4.        Postal and telephone facilities are good in Maseru, where project
headquarters would be located, and fair at Roma and Mazenod, both of which
are within the project area.
Proposed Program
5.        The purpose of the project road program is to provide partly all-
weather and partly dry-weather access by truck from the different production
areas to the main centers of the project area and thence to markets, princi-
pally in Maseru and South Africa. To meet this purpose, the following road
construction improvements are essential:
(a) about 57 miles of main access roads (all-weather); and
(b) about 62 miles of subsidiary access roads (dry-weather).
In addition, about 250 miles of field access roads would be constructed
to carry crop inputs to the fields and the harvested crops and crop residues
from them. These would be of low standard and suitable only for tractors
and light motorized and animal-drawn vehicles. The field access roads
would be designed and constructed together with, and as part of, the soil
conservation works. The rough location of main and subsidiary access roads
is shown on the Map. In the attached table are the different road sections
and their lengths. The alignment of new roads would, where suitable, follow
existing tracks and also use old fords. About 8 major and 15 minor fords
would be constructed on main and subsidiary access roads.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
6.        The proposed roads are an integral part of the project.  There
ate few plans for other new activities in the project area but since the
area is heavily populated and the project would stimulate trade, some addi-
tional traffic, other than project traffic, would be generated (see para 10).
Road Usage and Design
7.        The project area is geographically divided into two main ecological
zones, Lowlands and Foothills. The terrain is either flat or rolling, and
generally fairly easy for road constructior.. No serious problems are expected
with soils in the project area; the bearing capacity of the subsoil is gener-
ally good and outcrops of dolomite are plentiful throughout the project area.
The soil is, however, sensitive to erosion in many parts of the area. Soil
conservation and drainage would be of particular importance in the road pro-
gram.                                                                                    e
8.        The mean annual rainfall of the area ranges from approximately
600 mm to 700 mm per annum; about 70% of the rainfall occurs it the spring
and summer months, October-April. The distribution of rains, however,
is very uneven, and droughts occur frequently. This means that the subsi-
diary access roads can be bui'lt generally as dry-weather roads, because
only short closing periods are necessary. All markets would be located
along main access roads.
9.        Trucks of 5-7 tons would be used to move farm crops and crop inputs.
About 40,000 tons of crops would be transported from the area annually. In
addition, about 5,000 tons of crop inputs would be transported to the area.
These crop transport movements would occur during April-June and September-
December. Inputs would be transported in September-October and January-
February. The heaviest transport of about 25,000 tons, a total of 40-60
truckloads per day, would occur in April-June. The number of heavy vehicles
during that period on the subsidiary access roads would be 5-15 per day, and
on the main access roads 20-40 per day.
10=       On completion of the roads (1975), non-project traffic on subsi-
diary access roads is very roughly estimated at 10-20 vehicles per day
(mainly light traffic), and on the main access roads, at 20-40 vehicles per
day (also mainly light traffic but with some buses). The annual increase
is estimated at about 3-6% during the first five years, depending thereafter
on the rate of economic development in the area. It is probable, however,
that another project in adjoining areas would follow the success of this
one, and increase use of project roads.
11.       The total annual average daily traffic by 1975 can be estimated
to vary from 10 to 30 vehicles on the subsidiary access roads and from 30 to
60 vehicles on the main access roads; the number of heavy vehicles would
vany on different roads from 20% to 40% of the total.
12.       The standard of the access roads has been determined taking into
account: the needs of the project, possible cost savings in construction
and maintenance, and later possible improvement in the standard. Final



ANNEX 14
Page 3
design work would be based on these considerations, and particular attention
would be given to possible cost savings.
13.       The formation (distance between the bottoms of side ditches)
of the main and subsidiary access roads would be 22 ft. The standard of
main access roads would, where possible without additional costs, conform
to the standard of Ministry of Works "Secondary and Feeder Roads" for
rolling country. The main access roads would have 10-ft-wide and 4-in-thick
gravelling. The subsidiary access roads would not be gravelled.
14.       Drainage structures would consist of concrete pipe culverts and
paved fords.
*              Design Work
15.       Detailed engineering on the main and subsidiary access roads
would consist of a limited number of soil surveys, design of horizontal
and some vertical alignment, and design of bridges and drainage works.
Also major changes in the location of the roads (compared to the rough
location indicated in this report) would be possible, provided they were
motivated by construction and maintenance costs as well as traffic efficiency
and had been approved by the Project Manager. Part of the design work
would be concurrent with actual construction in order to achieve the best
possible economic result. Design work could best be carried out by the
project's own organization with some assistance from the Ministry of Works
and, possibly, from consultants. Field access roads would be designed jointly
with the soil conservation works and by the soil conservation unit with help
of the project construction unit if necessary.
Construction
16.       To achieve the best use of resources (equipment, material,
personnel), a separate construction unit would be set up within the Land
Planning and Soil Conservation Division (see Chart 6770). It would be headed
by an experienced site manager (Roads Engineer). This unit would cooperate
with the Ministry of Works in the design and construction of stores and
houses, as well as being responsible for project road construction and main-
tenance during the project period. The construction unit would also work in
close cooperation with the soil conservation unit in order to make optimum
use of the same equipment and experts.
17.       The construction unit would use Ministry of Works staff or, possibly,
consultants for design work to keep the number of its own personnel to a
minimum. Labor is available for road construction and about 150/200 people
would be employed on the program, representing about 30% of road costs. The
construction unit would mainly employ subcontractors and use hired equipment
for major earthmoving. Depending on the actual situation during construction,
it may also be possible and desirable to use soil conservation equipment.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
18.       A detailed plan for the execution of construction works would be
prepared by the construction unit before work began. The plan would include
at least:  (i) construction techniques; (ii) use of subcontractors, hired
equipment and project equipment; (iii) use of materials; (iv) use of labor;
(v) time schedule in appropriate form; (vi) organization plan; (vii) costs;
and (viii) a system to follow up and report continuously on the actual
progress of the works in terms of time and costs as compared to the proposed
plmn.
19.       Construction works are expected to take about two and a half
years to complete. Construction of main and subsidiary access roads would
precede agricultural works. The final time schedule would be based on the
overall time schedule for the whole project.
20.       The Public Works Department would be expected to assist in soil
and material testing.
Cost Estimates
21.       Costs for each road are shown in the Table.  Cost estimates are
based on the experience and statistics on unjt prices of the Public Works
Department. Additional costs of the construction unit have been taken into
account as well as the possible use of consultants. The cost of paved fords
is also included in the following figures:
Total cost of road construction: R 0.41 M (US$0.52 M)
Unit cost of main access roads:  R 2,600/km (US$3,280/km)
Unit cost of subsidiary access roads: R 1,750/km (US$2,200/km)
Road Maintenance
22.       During the project period (6 years), che maintenance of all project
roads would be carried out by the construction unit which, upon completion of
the works, would be transferred to other works leaving a small separate
maintenance unit or joint unit with soil conservation; or would be reduced
as required for maintenance only.  Total maintenance cost during the project           0
period is estimated at R 35,000 (US$47,000).
Attached: Table
August 4, 1972



LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
Road Construction and Maintenance
Agricultural   No.                 Road                  Standard    Leng-th -Cost Estimate -_______
Area               From         -            To                     km                  Total      Total
R/km     '000 Rand   '000 US$
W. Lowland       1     Botsabelo - Thaba Bosiu          Main access   14.0     2,600        36.4
2     Qeme - Phohleli                       "        11.8     2,600        30.7
3    Masianokeng - Boqate              Subsidiary
access       5.8     1,750       10.2
4     Qeme - Sekoala                        "        10.1     1,750        17.7
5    Mazenod - Mokema                                10.9     1,750        19.1
6    Mofuka - Makoba                                  4 .7    1,750         8.2
7    Lekholela - Taole                      "         8.5     1,750        14.9
8    Phohleli - Lesoli                      "         3.1     1,750         5.4
E. Lowland       9    St. Michaels - Rants'etse         Main access    8.5      2,600       22.1
10     Roma - Project boundary              "i         7.4     2,600        19.2
11     Rants'etse - Phohleli            Subsidiary
access       3.1     1,750        5.4
S. Foothills    12    Nqheku - Mokonyana                     "        15.4      1,750       27.0
It        13    Molengoane - Tsoili                     "         2.7     1,750         4.7
,,        14    Ntsi - South                            "         3.9     1,750         6.8
It        15      Ratau - main road                               2.4    1,750          4.2
it        16      Kubutu - Ntlo - Kholo                           4.5     1,750         7.9
N. Foothills    17     Lancers Gap - Fako               Main access   32.2      2,600       83.7
,,        16    Thaba Bosiu - Fako                      "        16.9     2,600        43.9
"i        19     Khmnolane - Masopha               Subsidiary
access       3.2     1,750        5.6
If        20      Fako - Mokonyana                      "         9.3     1,750        16.3
2)     Sefikeng - Pulane                     "        11.7      1,750       20.5
Sub-total, Road Construction                                         190.1                 409.90      516.5
Road Maintenance, including additional central administration and staff costs               86.49
Total                                                                                      496.39      625.5
August 2,  1972



C
6



*                        0                          
LESOTH
TRI  OSIU RURAL DEVELOMIT PROJECT~
Cowt of  ads
Unit                                                                                                            Foraig
Cost        Year            1           2           3           4           5           6          Total       Ezcane
Senior Road Enginer          12,000                       6,000 ()  12,000(1)  12,000 (1)      -           -           -         30,000        27,000
Technical Officer             1,850                       1,850 (1)   3,840 (2)   3,990 (2)   4,130 (2)   4,280 (2)   4,420 (2)   22,510         -
Sub-total                                             7,850      15,840      15,990      4,130       4,280       4,420       52,510        27,000
Staff On-Costa 402                                        3,140       6,340      6,400       1,650       1,710       1,710       20,950        10,800
Consultants Services                                      5,000     10,000       5,000         -           -           -         20,000        18,000
Sub-total                                            15,990      32,180      27,390       5,780      5,990       6,130       93,460        55,800
44hal Drive                   3,200                       6,400 (2)     -          -           -         3,200 (1)     -          9,600         8,640
pincp                         1,800                       1,800 (1)     -          -         1,800 (1)     -                      3,600         3,240
Office and Laboatory                                      3,000 (1)     400         300 (1)    100 (1)     100 (1)     100 (1)    4,000         3,600
Mobile Traler                 3,000                       3,000 (1)     -           -          -           -           -          3,000         2,700
Sgab-total                                           14,200         400         300       1,900       3,300         100      20,200         18,180
lomes - Type A               16,000                      16.000 (1)     -           -           -          -           _         16,000         9,600
- Ty"e C               4,400                       8,800 (2)     -                      _            _           _          8,800         5,280
Sibtotal                                             24,800         -           -           -           -           -        24,800         14,880
Maintanue and Oeerau-M
Vehicles                      4,200                       1,500       4,200       4,200       2,600       2,600       2,600       17,700        12,390
ouses (2.52)                                                -           620         620         220         220         220        1,900         1,330
Sub-tot*l                                             1,500       4,820       4,820       2,820       2,820       2,820       19,600        13,720
Roads
1ain Access Roads             1,930/km                   19,300 (10) 67,550 (35) 88,780 (46)    -           -           -        175,630       105,380
Submdlary Access Roads        1,300/Ia                   13,000 (10) 45,500 (35) 70,200 (54)    -           -           -        128,700        77,220
Sub-total                                            32,300     113,050     158,980         _           _           _        304,330       182,600
Mtecnce                           50/E                       -         1,000       4,500       9,500       9,500       9,500       34,000        20,400
Sub-total                                            32,300     114,050     163,480       9,500       9,500       9,500      338,330       203,000
TOTAL ROADS                                          8O,7V      151,450     195,990      20,000      21,610      18,550      496,390       305,580
M,
May 26, 1972



a         a



1,S0T1O
IiIA BA 108 RURAL DZVILOMVT PEGJIECT
Goat oDf Soil OcMservation
Unit                                                                                                           Foreign
Cost  Year      1                                                                      6_ c6
Staft
Senior Plan0in & Soil
Conservation Officer               20,000       20,000 (1)   21,100(1)   _21,850         22,600         23,350         24,100        133,000     133,000
Con, rratic  Ibater.                 18,000        9,000 (       .) 18,500 (1)  19 100     19,700          20,300          5,400        92 000      92,000
Mch2anical Sapr lntendwt             15,000        7,500(O    15,350 (1)     15,700        16,050          16,400-        4,000-         75,000     75,000
Sb-total                                       36,500       54,950     - 56,650         58,350          60,050         33,500       300,000     300,000
Local
Senior Tduntcal Officer
(0onau vation)                      2,590        2,590 (1)    2,680(1)       2,770(1)     2,670(1)        2,960 (1)      3,080(1)      16,75D
Techd.cal. Officer (Layout)    A     1,850          925(i    1,920()          1,990(1)     2,070(1)        2,140(1)       2,210(1)      11,255
Plant                         A      1,850          925(Ω)     1,920 1)       1,990(1)      2,070(1)       2,140(1)       2,210(1)      11,255
Technical Asaistants & Artisan C2      860        4,730(50    9,000(10).    9,480(11)       9,960(11)     10,440(12)     10,920(12)     54,530
Plant Operators for heavy              860        2,580(3)    4,500(5)        4,740(5)     4,980(5)        5,220(6)       5,460(6)      27,480
aWnipment                   C2
Plant Operators for light              690         2,070(3)    4,380(6)       4,680(6)      5,100(6)       5,400(6)       5,700(6)      27,330
equipmat                    C3
Mechanics                     C3       690         1,380(2)    2,190(3)       2,340(3)      2,550(3)        2,700(3)       2,850(3)     14,010
Drivers                       03       520        2,080(s)    2,200(4)        2,350(4)      2,560(4)       2,740(4        2,920(4)      14,850
Soorta7 & Clerk & Storem    03         520         1,560(3)    -2,750(5)      2,940(5)      3,180(5)       3,420(5        3,660(5)      17,510
Laborwer                               240         2,IOM(10)    2)j00(1ot9    2,400(10)    2,400(10)        2,400(10)     2,400(10)    14,400
_    Sub-atota                                21,240      33,940         35,680        37,540          39,560        41,410         209,370        _
TOTA:L.                                   57,740       88,890        92,330        95,890,         99,610         74,910        509,370      300,00
Staff On-Costs (40T)                            23,100       35,560         36,930        38,360          39,840        29,960        203,750       87,720
TOTAL STAFF                               80,840      124,450       129,260       134,250         139,450        104,870        713,120      387,720
fraiS l                             11,000       43,000        41,000        43,000          25,000           _           163,000      163,000
TOTAL STJF, CONSULTAMY & MRININljG        91,840      167,450       170,260       177,250         164,450        104,870        876,120      550,720
July 3, 1972



LiOm(O
TB1 EOSII HimRL MVOFRIINT PRWJCT
GoSt of SDil Coaeeration
(bd)
Unit                                                                                                                 Foreig.
Cost    year         1             2                             4            5              6            TOTAL    Eluchango
Heavy3quipmeot
Track tractor 125 HP            35,400            70,800(2)                                                                                70,800      63,720
Motor grader                     27,000           54,000(2)                                                                                54,000      2l8,62
Scraper & Cable 9 cu yd.        16,o0o            i6,000o 1)                                                                               16,000      14,400
Tractors 58 HP                   3,850            23,l00 6)                                                                                23,100      20,790
Diesel Bowser trailer            1,700             1,700(1)                                                                                 1,700       I,530
'dater Bovser trailer            1,200             2,400(2)                                                                                 2,400       2,160
Tippw /Dcsper                    1,600             1,600(1)                                                                                 1,00        1,4,0
PIlughs (0  rking)                 300               900(3)                                                                                   900         810
Concrete mixers                    800             2,400(3)                                                                                 2,400       2,160
Minor equipment                 16,000            16,000(1)                                                                                16,000       4,400
Compressor                       1,500             1500(1)                                                                                  1,500       1,350
Caravans (trailer house)         2,450             2,450(1)                                                                                 2,150       2,200
3-yard scraper with tractors      1,500           15.000(1)                                                                                15,000      13,50
Sub-total                                     207,850                                                                                  207,850     187,060
';ehicles
4-wheel drive                    3,200            12,800(4)                                                                                12,800       11,520
Cars                              1,400             2,800(2)                                   1,400         1,400                          5,600        5,o40
Truck 5-ton                      4,000            a8-eoo02)                                                  4'∞∞∞                         12,000      lo, soo
Piok vp 1s80 10                                     I800                                       1,000           _                           1,600        10,820l
Sub-total                                     25,4oo                                       3,200         5,400                         34,00'      30,600
Equi pment
Survey                           3,000             3,000                                                                                    3,000       2,70
Soil sulrey                      1,000             1,000                                                                                    1,000          900
Gmping                            1,000           -L, OO                                                                                    1,000          900
Sub-total                                       5,o0o                                                                                    5,o2o       4,520
Aerial Photogrz,hy                                  10,000                                                                                   13,00C       5, 30
Forestry Contract (trees '000)2       20                           6,000(300)      6,000(300)    6,000(300)    6,000(300)    6,000(300)      30,000       15,000
C.-tr-otion
Workshop building & office       6,o0o             6,000                                                                                    6,0o2       3,600
Houses - Type A                 16,000            48,000(3)        -                                                                       48,ooo      28,800
Type B                 10,600            10,600(1)                                                                                10,600       6,360
Type C                  4,400             8,800(2)                                                                                 8,800       5,280
Type D                  6,300            18.900(3)    12,600(2)                                                                   31.500      18,900
Sob-total                                      92,300        12,600                                                                    104,900      62,940
TOTAL E)UIHMSNT & COlSTRUCTI0N     3    ]     i     O     ,    T5 60     9,200                             111,00         r=       3       1,7   3551W
V/ Labor through Food for Work.                                                                                                                                                 4
June 5, 1972                                                                                                                                                              St



IHARA BDSIU IRAL D3NOPNENT PBOJ3ZT
Cost of Soil Conservation (cont.)
Unit                                                                                                        Foreign
Costs  Year            1            2                                                             TOTAL    Exchange
EarthmovnlnR & Structures
Waterways earthjoving/sile             400                           18,000(45)   20,000(50)   10,000(25)    8,000(20)    4,000(10)   60,ooo   30,000
Intakas & stone walling/mile           400                           18,000(45)   20,000(50)   10,000(25)    8,000(20)    4,000(10)   60,000   30,000
Diversion ditch, earthmoving/ile       160                           41,600(260)  41,600(260)  41,600(260)  41,600(260)      -        166,400   83,200
Improving e2istig works                 23                -             0OO)  17 25o(750)  17 250(750)  17 250(750)   '70(250)   69 000   34 500
Sub-total                                                        _           _
Dis
3arthioving                         1,800                            7,200(4)     7,200(4)     7,200(4)     7,200(4)      7,200(4)    36,ooo   18,000
Inlets & Fencing                      300                            1 )200(4)       0         1,0(4)       2   0(4)      1  004)      6,oo     3
Sub-total                                                     8,400        8,400         8,400        8,400       :8,400       42,000   21,000
Roads
Earthioving/miles                      200                           10,000(50)   10,000(50)   10,000(50)   10,000(50)   10,000(50)   50,000   25,00o
Structures cul-vrts                 30,000                _          30,000(l)    30,000(1)    30,000(1)    30,000(1)    30,000(1)   150,000   75,000
Sub-total                                                    40,000        40,000       40,000       40,000       40,000       200,000  100,000
TOTAL STRUCTURES                      ;137500                              147,250       127          12,150                     597,400  296,700
Maintenantce & O agCt
1. Workshop                          2,000               2,000        2,000        2,000         2,000        2,000        2,000       12,000    6,000
2. Vehicles                         11,800              11,800       11,800       11,800       11,800        11,800       11,800       70,800   35,400
3. Buildings 2.5%                       20                 -          2,310.       2,620         2,620        2,620        2,620       12,790    6,400
4. Roads/msile                                            _            -           1,000        2,00          3,000        4,000       10,000    5,000
TOTAL MAlT uAMCE/OPERATING                        13,800       16,110        17,420       18,420       19,420       20,420       105,590   52,800
TOTAL SOIL CoNiSRVATION                                  446,190      339,660      340,930       332,120      31,20        193,440    1,970,860 1,2O7j3O
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =
OQ
July 3, 1972 



B          a



THAM  08r RSURPl DHVHLF3RE  zJCr
Coat of  ntearetad Farmin  Program
(and)
Unit                                                                                                             Foreign
Overbeads                           Cott        Tear          L_           2  u                     4           5           6           Total         Buchante
Sociologiat/Ag. EOn*           12,00011                   9000(*)   6000 C1)    6,000 (j)   6,OOO ()   6,000 ()    6 000            39,000         35,100
Technical Officer               2,590                     2,590 (1)   2,680 (1)   2,770(1)   2,870 (1)   2,96O(1)   3,060 (1)    16,950              -
Driver                                                      520          550         590         640         680         750         3,710           -
12,110       9,230       9,360       9,510       9,640       9,810        59,660         35,100
Staff on-Costs 407.                                       4,840       3,690        3,740       3,800       3,860       3,920        23,850         14,040
Sub-total                                            16,950      12,920       13,100      13,310      13,500      13,730        83,510         49,140
Vebiolsa
Car                             1,400                     2,800(2)    -            1,400(1)   1,400(1)                  -            5,600          5,040
Housing
Type A                         16,000'                    12,000(*      ----                                                         12,000         7,200
Type B                         1O,600                    10,600 (1)    -            -           -            -                       10,600         6,360
Sub-total                                            22,600        -            -           -            -          -            22,600        13,560
Maintenance and Operation
Car                             1,200                     2,400 (2)   2,400(2)   2,400 (2)   2,400(2)   2,400(2)    2,400(2)         14,400 (2)    10,080
House (2.57.)                                                _           560         560         560         560          560         2,800         1,400
Sub-total                                             2,400        2,960       2,960       2,960       2,960       2,960         17,200        11,480
Tots'i Overheeda                                     475           ,          17,460      17,670      l1640       16,690        189i10         79,220o
~~~~ ~~Cror InPut
Additional Fertilisar (per 100 ac)
Hatls                             479                      _            _           _            960       2,160       4,310          7,430         6,690
Sorghum                           479                      _                        -            720       1,441       2,870          5,030         4,530
Wheat                             629                       -           -           -          1,570       3,140       6,290         11,000         9,900
Beaus                             400                      _           -            -          1,000       2,000       4,000          7,000         6,300
Total Crop Inputs                                     -           -           -          4.250        8.740      17.47         30 460            42
Total Increental Annual Crop Input                    _                                  4,250        4,490       8,730        17,470         15,720
Livestock Inputs
Fe!ed - Annual                   22                       110         550        1,760       3,630       8,360       9,240         23,650           -
- Incremental                                        110         440       1,210        1,870       4,730         880         9,240            -
Fencing                                                   -          _            -          1,500       3,000       4,500          9,000         8,100
Cows and Cowsheds (Net)l/        150                      750       3.000        7.500      12.000      30.000       6,760        60.010         40.200
Total Livestock Inputs                               860       3,550       9,260       17,130      41,360      20,500        92,660         48,300
Net Working Capital                                         -            -           -         3,540       6,130      12,200         21,870           -
T0TAL COST                                            45,610      1i9430       26720       42,590      72,690      66,860       273,900        154,940
On-Farm CostsY                                         860       3,440        8,710      19,620      42,220       20,870        95,720        64,020
Other Costs                                           ,.750     15,880       17,460      21,210      22,590      28,890        150.780        79,220
TOTAL FuNDSsY                                         45.610      19.320       26.170      40.830      64810        9760         246500        143,240
1/ Part-time University or UDP.                          *  * 75
2/ Years' addition to revolving fund.
3/ Purchase of cows and cost of shads, less value of animals sold prior to cow purchase.
4/ Purchases of Fencing, Cove and CotmbCd5 plu  incremental annual crop inputs,
5/ Total funds required, including revolving fund.
June 19, 1972



LES0TM
THA2A    n UOSU hA~L   L01D.74T 1'R0EGZ
COst of Administration
(Rmd)
Unit                                                                                                              Foreiga
Staff                                 CD&t          Year           1                                                                                        ,_ 3  _5  Ttale
1xjnct MrxpexA                     21,000                      21,000(1)  21,000(1)   21,000(1)   21,M (1)   21 ,00(l)    4 980(l)  109,980            98,980
1p.uty PMoj,. t wasner              3,320                                               3,320(l)    3,46Z(1)    3,560(l.)--- :          10,320           -
ftnar-1 CJller                     19,PO.                      19,GM0(1)  19,000(-)  19,000(1)   19,000(l)  19,000(1)  19,000(1)   114,W0             102,600
Pxm3   Awat                         3,34)                       1,760(O    3,440(1)   3,560(1)   3,690(1)   3,840(1)   3,980(1)    20,250                -
AX..fisatlan Officer                2,59D                       1,250 M     2,680(1)   2,770(1)    2,870()    2,960(1)   3,080(1)   15,610                -
=rat'My                             2,580                       2,50 (1)   2,590(1)   2,680(1)    2,770(1)    2,870(1)   2,960(1)    16,370               -
Stor. ier                          1,850                        -          1,830(1)   1,920(1)   1,99(1)    2,060(1)    2,140(1)    9,960                -
ASSstt Atc ntg t1,180                                        300 ()   1,230(1)   2,4600(2)   2,570(2)   2,670(2)   2,830(2)   12,060
060                        -           _          1,720(2)   1,B00(2)   1,90 (2)   2,00(2)    7,420               -
860                       1,720(2)   3,520(4)   3,700(4)    3,9W0(4)   4,00(4)   4.280(4)    21,200                -
520                       1,040(2)   2,140(4)   2,280(4)   2,380(4)   2,540(4)   2,820(4)    13,200                -
860                         860(1)   2,620(3)   2,750(2)   2,900(3)    3,040(3)   3,180(3)    15,350               -
240                         489(2)      960(4)   1.200(5)   1,2W0(5)   1,200(5)   1,200(5)    6,240 
49,910      61,030      66,36       69.51.0     70,729      52,430      371,00         201,580
Staff OaO-Gsts Ui                                              19,970      24,410      27,340      27,80       28,290      20,970      148,780          80,630
fth-toti1                                                  69,80       85,440      95,700      97,310      99,0o0      73,400      520,740         262,21
Waa3gwa'a Car                       2,050                       2,050(1)    -            _          2,050        -           -            4,100          3,690
Crs=                                1,40                        1,400(1N    -                      1,400(1)     -           -           2,600           2,520
NZ41b                               3,00                         -          3,00 (1)                 -           -           -            3,000          2,700
4k1kw1 Drive                        3,200                       3,200 (1)    -                       -           -           -           3,200           2,880
SVI-total                                                   6,650       3,000        -          3,450        -           -           13,100         11,790
offac}¢ Bqwid:                                                 12,000       8,000       5,000       5,00        5,000       5,000        40,000         36,000
8ab-to1                                                    18,650      11,00W       5,00        8,450       5,000       5,000        53,100         47,90
- Typpe A                   16,800                      33,60 (2)    -                        -           -                      33,600          20,160
Type 3                    10,600                      10, 60(1)    -          10,600 (1)                   _ _                  21,200         12,720
- Ty   C                     4,400                       4,400 (1)   4,4W (1)  _     _        -                                   8,0o0           5,280
3ewk.-Mrs0,000              50,000             .                  -50,000                                            30,00
Sub"total                                                  98,600       4,4-W      10,600                     _ _                   113,600         68,160
W"dicle's                                                       3,000       4,800         ,800      4,800       4,800        3,800       26,00          18,200
ali   (2ldW                                                      _-         2,430       2,540        2,700       2,780       2,380       12,910          6,460
3,00        7,230       7,340       7,58        7,580       6,180       38,910          24,660
%MT. R        ASWJJ ISDAIO8                               190,130     108,070     118,640      113,340     111,590      84,580      726,350        422 820
, Staff rear ited dwmns  first year charged p-Portic-tely.
W  25, 1972



IZSOTHO
THkB  DOSI: IU1*L DZIIP!gf P3IJECT
Project Cost Sumary
_5|__v_~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foeg
(Thoussm nandu}
Ann"        Year         1           2                      14           5           6          Total      Foreh~p     _
on-farm Costs                  6                          6        35         l104         1149        270          261.        825          680      76
Tecbnical Sarvices             7, 8
EIxtensin                    7                         78        50           61          72          90           85         436          163
Training                     8                         84        35           29          31           25          -           204          98
ueaarch                     10                         69        39           37          41          3            38         262
Sub-total                                           231       324          127         14X          153         123          902         406       45
Credit                        13                         76        51           65          60           72          83         1407         157       39
blceting                      12                        100       100          149         157          192         166          8614        256       30
Soil Conservation             14                        514        319         322         312          294         193        1,954       1,191       61
Integated Faring              17
On-far  CcSts                                           1         3            9          20           42          21           96          614      67
Other                                                  45        16           17          21           23          29          151           79      52
Sub-total                                            46        19           26          41           65          50          247         1143      58
Roads                         16                         89       151         196           20          22           18         496          306      61
Administration                18                        190        108         119         113          112           814         26          1423     58
Sub-total                                         1,252        907       1,108         996        1,180          978       6,1h21       3,562      55
Phqzioa1 Contingenciea                                    3          7          69          11           13           12         115           81      70
FPico Contingencies                                      58                    177                                              ,             6i3X   53
&8 .1 waorv3at:Lon Adjutm?l2
gabTqot,al ¢
313    1,0?                                                            17Y                     5
TONAL PROM  COSTS                                 1"l,0                    36         12t1        1,5          1,3214      7                       5
X;/ Inudes rounding,
2/ ConpTasation for devaliation of Rand. 



LESOTH*O
TUABA DoSIm RIJ1L DEVMLM3= P80J
Financial Contributions and ID  Disb axseant
Thouand Rand --
0$ '00N
Year   1        2       3       4       5       6      Sub-total CEotginanes Total                    ß^eat   Totals    %
were g ContribatlMo                1        8      23      35      71      49         187          39         226                     2O                 3
____     Bsdkl                    _        19      42      58     114      98         331          89         420                     530                5
USAID (Soil Coaervation)           479      319    322    308       288     194       1,910         31        2,220                   2,800               29
Sub-total                480       346     387    401      473    341        2,428          &        2,866                   },610     *3,61 
IDA Credit:
A.d  tedCk    a J
Onfe.r Inpnt        2                                                               531         108         639
Vebleait:X  & Iqu15 ut82-                                                           269          41         310
Uspatriate Staff                                                                    733         150         883
Sub-tot&I A                                                                 1,533         299       1,832    902 A-1,649   -2 078               21
B. Oter Geood*  4l erv:icel-
Local On-f&re Tn0"te                                                                203          96         299
Local Staff                                                                       1,042         190       1,232
BuLldigs                                                                            506          53         559
Maintenance & Operations3                                                           371         115         486
Ro"s                                                                            338         138         476
Sub-total B                                                                2,460         592       3,052    902 B92,747    5.461
][D*-Credit Sub-total                                                                                                    4,396       M                57
R.Omi ed to    5,600      ,60O   57
TOTAL                                                                      6,421        4                                                        6
Gvermeint Contribution                                                                                                                                1
f1 Including Soil ConseYvation, with the ewe-otion of vehicles and aerial survey.
2/ Against dencnt.ts.
/ IXncludes aerial survey R10,000.
Augcat 9 3972



LBSOT&i
TUAM BOSIU RUIRAL DVWNTPEOJICT
Govermxent Cash Flow
(Thousand Rand)
Year     1        2       3       4        5       6       7       8        9      10    11-20 21-50
1.    oact Cash Flow
A. Inflow
IDtd                                  730      563     824      639     840      800    - 
USAIA/                                498      346     364      362     351      248    -        -       -        -       -      -
Farmers' depositsl/2/                    1       7       23      40      76       78    75       75      75       75      75    75
Farmers' repaymets on
seasonal loanaJ2/                    -         3      26       87     172      332   425     423      423     423      423   423
Sub-total                      1,229      919   1,237   1,128   1,439   1,458   500                49S 48            98    98
B. Outflow
-Oi-farts cost                           7 7    48      165     292     558      710   581      581     581      581     581   581
Other project coatst                 1,285     910   1,123      876     904      762   253      218     164      160     160   160
Sub-total                      1,292      958   1,288    1,16861,   T.            834     799      745     741      741   741
met balance                            (63)    (39)    (51)    (40)    (23)    (14) (334)   (301)   (247)   (243)   (243) (243)
2.  Goverment Ieaos
Tiort duties & Xomke  taxes-/              -       124       32      53      74      115    96       89      88       87       86    86
Farmrs  repayentst on meiuu
ters' rea      t                         -         1        3      10      27       61   163      164     150      126     108   108
Harketin  cison                            -       -        -       -        -       -       76      76       76      76       76    76
Hlose rents                                 15      18       20      22       22      22    22       22       22      22       22    22
Sub-total                         15      143      55       85     123      198  357       351     336      311     292  292
Net balance before IDA payments            (0)       4        4      45      10      184    23                89      6       *49    49
Paymt   to  DA - Service charse            -          3       8      16       21      27    33       33       33      33       31    18
- Repayments                  -        -       -            -       -      -       -        -       -         44   133
Net an1al balance                          (48)    101       (4)     29       79     157   (10)      17       56      35      (26) (102)
ctlative blaie                             (48)     53       49      78      157     314   304      321      377     412      152 P08n1tivV  to year 21
I/ Coutingencies included up to Year 6.
2 Exclusive of oxen and cow feed.
3t Exclusive of work.in  capital for cvp purchases financed by co=ercial banks.
4/  20% on iported goods ad 4.5X on salaries of additional project staff.
5| Until Year 6, these rvenues are used to reduce cosnercial bank overdrafts.
July 5, 1972



a        a



*                             
LESOTHO
THABA. BOSITU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJTECT
IDA Credit Financing Schedule
1          2          3          4           5          6           Total
-------------------------- Thousand Rand-
1. Total CQsts
On-farm Costs                5         32          89        133        239         236            734
Vehicles & Equipment       113         33          32         39         33          19            269
Staff                      204        278         310        319        347         317          1,775
Buildings                  375        `47          59         -          20           5            506
Maintenance & Operations    40         59          67         73         71          61            371
Roads                       32        112         1614        10         10          10            338
Sub-total           7W 72i T-1                                   72N  0                   3,993
Contingencies Physic 1       3          7         69          10         11          12            112
Pricel".W     39         58        125         126        202         229            779
TOTAL               811        626         915        710        933         889 4i88
2.  IDA Financing 90%                       563         8214        39         8140       800          139
3.  IDA Financing (uS$0ooo)-/   (930)       (720)    (1,050)      (810)    (10)    (1,020)             (5L600)
4. Cmuulative (us$'000)          (930))   (1,650)    (2,700)    (3,510)    (4,580)    (5,600)
I/ Including physical contingencies
2/ Includes rounding.
Au  3
August 3, 1972                                                                                                     MI



ANNEX 22
Table 2
IESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPME&T PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End               Cumulative Disburseent at End of
Quarterl/
1973/74                                                (US$ thousands)
September                                                    -
December                                                     200
March                                                       300
June                                                        500
1974/75
September                                                   600                        J
December                                                     700
March                                                        800
June                                                        900
1975/76
September                                                 1,200
December                                                  1,500
March                                                     1,800
June                                                      2,100
1976/77
September                                                 2,,400
December                                                  2, 6oo
March                                                      2,800
June                                                      3,030
1977/78                                                                                4
Septeiber                                                 3,300
December                                                  3,600
£iarch                                                    3,900
June                                                      4,200
1978/89
September                                                 4h,5oo
December                                                  4,s70
March                                                     5,000
June                                                      5,200
1979/80
September                                                 5,300
December                                                  5,600
/ Allowing for slippage
August 3, 1972



ANNEX 23
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
General
1.        The attached farm budgets (Tables 1-6) illustrate returns
obtainable by participating farmers using project inputs and family labor
on a 5-ac farm, estimated to be the average size in the project area. They
show estimated results from the following model farms or activities:
(a) Wheat farmer with 2 ac wheat, 1 ac beans, 2 ac
subsistence food crops;
(b) Maize/sorghum farmer with 2 ac maize/sorghum, 1 ac
beans, 2 ac subsistence food crops;
(c)  Effect of partial crop failure (drought) for wheat
farmer as in (a);
(d) Tractor operator using one tractor;
(e)  Dairy farmer with one cow;'
(f) Integrated mixed farming with 2 ac wheat, I ac maize/
sorghum, 1 ac beans, 1 ac grass/fodder crop, 1 cow,
*                              10 sheep.
2.        Different farming patterns and budgets can be constructed by taking
the unit costs per acre for each crop in the desired proportions.
3.        For wheat farming, two acres is about the amount a family would
be able and prepared to handle as a winter crop, together with two acres
of summer subsistence crops coupled with one acre of cash crop beans.
4.        Beans, with a net profit per acre of R 30, are the most valuable
crop when compared with wheat at R 13, and maize and sorghum at R 8 each.
This is confirmed by the steady increase in bean growing and exports over
recent years, now about 8-10% of the cropped area. The attached budgets
reflect a further expected increase under the project, with every progres-
sive farmer growing one acre (20%).
5.        But net profit is by no means the sole criterion.  The peasant
farmer will change his crops in response to price or yield variation;
but always food crops take priority. Since an increase in cash crop
acreage would be at the expense of food crop acreage, he will be reluctant



ANNEX 23
Page 2
to increase cash crops further, unless a higher yield from the reduced
food crop area will give him about the same total food supply. As he moves
into the cash economy, however, and as food production in his neighborhood
becomes generally more secure, through improved farming, he would become
more willing to grow cash crops and rely on purchases of grain to meet
part of his family food needs.
6.        Different soils, labor requirements and seasonal peaks also
dictate the crops he will grow. The farmer normally has the use of two
or three scattered fields on different soils. This, plus the different
crops grown, gives him some insurance against failure through drought, hail
and pests. Rainfall is such that two crops cannot be grown on the same
field in any crop year.                                                                   4
7.        The farmer therefore would continue to grow maize and sorghum,
wheat and beans in varying proportions, with the following factors, apart
from soil and climate, limiting the proportion of any one crop:
(a) Wheat: Available ox or tractor power for cultivations;
labor or combine harvesters for harvesting; and credit
for good seed and fertilizer;
(b) Maize: Amount of land with sufficient fertility, to
out-yield sorghum;
(c) Sorghum: Profitability only, since this is the most
hardy and drought resistant crop for adverse conditions
and poor soil;
(d) Beans: Fear of insect damage, labor at harvest and
grading, and credit for good seed and fertilizer.
8.        The rationale for each model precedes each budget.                              I
Attached: Tables 1-6.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 23
Table 1
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget for Wheat
The average 5-ac farm is estimated to grow 2 ac of subsistence
crops, sorghum and/or maize in the summer, without project inputs and,
as cash crops, 2 ac of winter wheat and 1 ac of beans.  The following
budget is calculated on yields obtained under normal climatic conditions
occuring 4 years out of 5. A reserve fund is provided t.o cover estimated
costs of partial crop failure 1 year out of 5.
1. Wheat - 2 Acres                        Rand            Rand      Rand
(a) Income:
Yield of 7 bags/ac             5.20/bag                   72.80
(b)  Inputs:
Seeds: 20 kg/ac                0.20/kg         8.00
Fertilizer 100 kg/ac           0.048/kg        9.60
Plowing                        4.0/ac          8.00
Planting and Cultivation       3.50/ac         7.00
Spraying                                       2.00
34.60
Threshing wfith Combine        0.50/bag        7.00       41.60
(c)  Net Income - Wheat                                        31.20
2.  Beans - 1 Acre
(a) Income:
Yield of 4.5 bags/ac of
which 4 saleable               13.00/bag                  52.00
(b) Inputs:
Seeds: 15/kg/ac                0.28/ac         4.20
Fertilizer: Siefos 100 kg      0.04/kg         4.00
Plowing                        4.00/ac         4.00
Planting and Cultivation       3.50/ac         3.50
Tooth Harrowing                1.50/ac         1.50
Spraying (1 year in 6)                         1.00       18.20
(c)  Net Income - Beans                                        33.80



ANNEX 23
Table 1
Page 2
3.  Overall Net Income                                           Rand
Wheat                                                      31.20
Beans                                                      33.80
Wool:  20 sheep at 4.5 lb/animal and R 0.2/lb;
or 24 goats at 2.5 lb/animal
and R 0.3/lb                                     18.00
83.00
Less: Purchase of Subsistence
Cereals (4 bags)                                 17.60
Total                                      65.40
Less:  Loan Interest and Drouglht Reserve
(assuming Bad Debt Reserve recovered)           11.36
Overall Net Income                                          54.04
4.  Subsistence                            Bags                                             4
No Cost Inputs; Family
Labor Only
1 Acre of Maize                         3
1 Acre of Sorghum                      2
Inter-row Beans                         2
Cereal Equivalent from
Vegetable Garden                      3
-                ~~~~~~10
Purchase to Make Up Family
Ration of 14 bags:
4 Bags Maize Meal at 4.40                            (17.60)
5.  Cash Flow                              Rand                  Rand
August:  Preseason Deposits
10% for Input Purchase
(41.60+18.20 = 59.80)   5.98
10% for Bad Debt
Reserve /1                5.98
Nov-Mar: Balance of Input Cost
(59.80 - 5.98)          53.82
Credit for Input Cost                            53.82
Jan-Mar: Sale of Wool/Mohair                               18.00
Feb-Apr: Food Purchase               17.60
Mar-Aug: Sale of Cash Crops
(72.80+52.00)                                 124.80
Jly-Aug; Repayment of Credit        53.82
Payment of Credit Interest5.38
Net Cash Balance   54.04
196.62                196.62
/1   On successful repayment of his Association's loans, the 10% bad
debt reserve would be transferred to an interest earning Drought
Reserve until it totals the value of one year's inputs.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 23
Table 2
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget for Maize and Sorghum
The average 5-ac farm in the Foothills or Lowlands is assumed
to grow 2 ac of subsistence, together with 2 ac of maize and/or sorghum in
the summer, and 1 ac of beans in winter, as cash crops.  The following
budget is calculated on yields obtained under normal climatic conditions,
occuring on average 4 years out of 5. A reserve fund is provided to
cover estimated costs of partial crop failure 1 year out of 5.
1.  Maize - 2 Acres                      Rand            Rand      Rand
(a) Income:
Yield of 8 bags/ac             3.00/bag                  48.00
(b) Inputs:
Seeds: 7.5 kg/ac               0.20/bag        3.00
Fertilizer 100 kg/ac           0.048/kg        9.60
Plowing                        4.00/ac         8.00
Planting and Cultivation       3.50/ac         7.00
Stalk Borer - Dressing
(0.3 lb of insecticide/ac)   0.60/ac          1.20      28.80
(c) Net Income - Maize                                        19.20
2. Sorghum - 2 Acres (Alternative
to Maize)
(a) Income:
Yield of 8 bags/ac, 7 bags
2.70/bag and 1 bag for
malting at 9.00/bag                                      53.00
(b) Inputs:
Seeds: 5 kg/ac                 1.00/bag        2.00
Fertilizer 100 kg/ac           0.048/kg        9.60
Plowing                        4.00/ac         8.00
Planting and Cultivation       3.50/ac         7.00
Stalk Borer Dressing           0.60/ac         1.20
Spraying                                       2.00      29.80
(c) Net Income - Sorghum                                      23.20



ANNEX 23
Table 2
Page 2
3.  Beans - 1 Acre,                                                  Rand
Net Income as for Wheat Farmers (see Table 1, Part 2 (c))   33.80
4. Overall Net Income
Maize or Sorghum /l                                             19.20
Beans                                                           33.80
Wool or Mohair:  As for Wheat Farmers                           18.00
71.00
Less: Purchased Subsistence Cereals
(See Table 1, para 3)                                 17.60
Total                                           53.40
Less:  Loan Interest Repayment and Drought Reserve
(assuming Bad Debt Reserve recovered)                  8.90
Overall Net Income                                               44.50
5.  Cash Flow                                             Rand
August:   Preseason Deposits
10% for Input Purchases
(28.80 + 18.20 = 47.00)                 4.70
10% for Bad Debt Reserve /2             4.70
Nov-Jan:  Balance of Input Cost                     42.30
Credit for Input Cost                                42.30
Jan-Mar:  Sale of Wool/Mohair                                   18.00
Feb-Apr:  Food Purchases                            17.60
Mar-Jly:  Sale of Cash Crops
(48.00 + 52.00)                                   100.00
Jly-Aug:  Repayment of Credit                       42.30
Payment of Credit Interest                4.20
Net Cash Balance                    44.50
160.30     160.30
/1   Alternative sorghum would increase cash by R 4.00.
/2   See Footnote I in Table 1.
June 30, 1972



ANNEX 23
Table 3
Page 1
LESOTRO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget for Wheat in Year of Drought
(One Year in Five)
1.  Wheat - 2 Acres                       Rand            Rand       Rand
(a) Income:
Yield of 3.5 bags/ac            5.20/bag                  36.40
(b) Inputs:
Seed, Fertilizers, Plowing,
Planting and Spraying                         34.60
Threshing with Combine          0.50/bag         3.50      38.10
(c) Net Income - Wheat                                          (1.70)
2. Beans - 1 Acre
(a) Income:
Yield of 2 bags/ac             13.00/bag                   26.00
(b) Inputs:
Seeds, Fertilizers, Plowing,
Planting, Tooth, Harrowing
and Spraying                                  18.20     18.20
(c) Net Income - Beans                                           7.80
3. Subsistence
Total production estimated at 5 bags of
cereal or equivalent, requiring purchase
of 9 bags of grain at R 4.00 to make up
14 bags required                                   36.00



.ANNEX 23
Table 3
Page 2
4.  Overall Net Income                                              Rand
W4heat                                                         (1.70)
Beans                                                           7.80
Wool and Mohair                                                18.00
Drought Reserve Refund
(5.98 at 5% per annum compound
over 4 years + 5.98)                                        33.08
57.18
Less:  Subsistence                                             36.00
Total                                               21.18
Less: Loan Repayment Interest and Drought Reserve
(assuming Bad Debt Reserve recovered)               11.01
Overall Net Income                                              10.17
5.  Cash Flow                                            Rand
August:   Preseason Deposits
10% for Expected Cost
of Input Purchase                      5.98
10% for Bad Debt Reserve               5.98
Nov-Mar:  Balance of Input Cost
(38.10 + 18.20 - 5.98)                50.32
Credit for Input Cost                               50.32
Jan-Mar:  Sale of Wool/Mohair                                  18.00
Feb-Apr:  Food Purchase                            36.00
Mar-Apr:  Sale of Cash Crops                                   62.40
Jly-Aug:  Receipt of Drought Reserve Fund                     33.08
Jly-Aug:  Repayment of Credit                      50.32
Payment of Credit Interest                5.03
Net Cash Balance                   10.17                             _
163.80     163.80
june 30, 1972



ANNEX 23
Table 4
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traztor Operating Budget
Equipment Cost                                  Rand      Rand
1 Tractor                                 2,400
3 Furrow Plow                               300
Wheat or Maize Planter                       300
3,000
Financed by:
Owner's Contribution (25%)                   750
Project Loan                              2,250
3,000
Operating Results
Revenue: 750 Paid Hours at 3.50/hr'.  2,625
(out of 1,000 total running
hours per annum)
Expenses
Costs per Tractor Running Hour (Average
1,000 hours per year)
Rand
Fuel & Oils               0.25
Drivers' Pay              0.26
Spares and Repairs        0.45
Insurance                 0.30
1.26
Total Cost per Annum                                 1,260
Net Revenue                                          1,365
Annual Loan Repayment with Interest
over 5 Years at 9% (equated annuity)                 580
/2
Net Cash-                                    785
/1   In first year only 650 paid hours would probably be achieved.
/2   With the tractor replaced in 5 years and worth R 500, and
machinery in 10 years worth R 60, annual replacement costs
would be R 385.
June 30, 1972



4



ANNEX 23
Table 5
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Budget for a Milk Cow
Rand      Rand
(a) Income
Sale of 250 gal milk at
R 0.03/pint                      60.00
Sale of one-third weaned calf
(R 10) and one-fifth culled
cow (R 20)                       30.00     90.00
(b) Inputs
4 lb concentrate feedstuffs
per gal for 200 gal
at 0.027/lb                                21.60
68.40
Less: Annual Loan Repayment
with Interest over
5 years; R 75 at 9%
(50% of R 125 for cow
and R 25 for building)              19.30
(c)  Net Income                                      49.10
June 30, 1972



a'          a



ANNEX 23
Table 6
Page 1
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Budget for Integrated Farming on 5 Acres Arable
plus 5 Acres Associated Permanent Grazing
Future developments in land usage, and integration of associated
stock, would involve individuals or groups of farmers in following new
cropping patterns. Two examples are listed below: the rotations would be
flexible, but proper moisture conserving techniques, with a bare fallow, would
be necessary, preceding winter wheat. Fodder, after a summer crop, could
readily comprise a volunteer crop of Bluegrass (Panicum spp), self sown,
aggressive and productive, at no establishment cost. It would probably also
serve as a ley grass, while experience was gained with other planted species.
Crop Rotations
(Fields of one acre each)      -------------Wheat Farm-------------
Field No.                         Summer           Winter
1                              Fallow        Winter Wheat
2                              Fallow        Winter Wheat
3                          Maize/Sorghum        Fodder
4                              Beans            Grass
5                              Grass            Grass
or:
Field No.                    -------------Maize Farm-------------
1                              Maize            Fodder
2                              Maize            Fodder
3                              Beans            Grass
4                              Grass            Grass
5                              Grass            Fallow



ANNEX 23
Table 6
Page 2
Wheat 2 acres                                   Rand      Rand
(a)  Income:     10 bags/ac at R 5.20/bag               104.00
(b)  Inputs:     As for regular wheat
farmer                      34.60
plus Double Fertilizer        9.60
plus Higher Harvest Costs   10.00       54.20
(c)  Net Income - Wheat                                  49.80
Maize 1 acre                                    Rand       Rand               4
(a)  Yield:      12 bags/ac
(b)  Inputs:     As for regular maize
farmer                      14.40
plus Double Fertilizer        4.80      19.20
or:
Sorghum 1 acre
(a)  Yield:      12 bags/ac (some might be
sold for malting and pro-
ceeds used to purchase
food)
(b)  Inputs:     As for regular sorghum
farmer                      14.90
plus Double Fertilizer        4.80      19.70             4
Beans 1 acre
(a)  Income:     6 bags/ac of which 5.5
saleable at R 13.00/bag               71.50
(b)  Inputs:     As for regular bean crop    18.20
plus Double Fertilizer        4.00      22.20
(c)  Net Income - Beans                                  49.30



ANNEX 23
Table 6
Page 3
Overall Net Income                                         Rand
2 Acres Wheat                                             49.80
1 Acre Beans                                              49.30
Income from one milking cow and follower                  49.10
Income from 10 improved sheep at 6 lb wool each
at R 0.3/lb plus sale of 5 lambs at R 5.0 each          43.00
191.20
Less: Cost of one acre of maize inputs, to
produce 12 bags of maize used for
9                                     subsistence, together with 2 bags
equivalent garden produce                       19.20
Less: Loan Interest, Repayment Installments,
and Drought Reserve                             37.50
Overall Net Income                                        134.50
Cash Flow                                       Rand       Rand
August:   Preseason Deposits
10% for Input Purchase
(54.20+19.20+22.20 = 95.60)       9.60
10% for Bad Debt Reserve          9.60
Nov-Mar:  Balance of Input Cost               86.00
Credit for Input Cost                          86.00
Jan-Mar:  Sale of Wool/Mohair /1                          43.00
Apr-Jly:  Sale of Milk and Follower                       49.10
Mar-Jly:  Sale of Cash Crops                             175.50
0_                          Jly-Aug:  Repayment of Credit                  86.00
Repayment of Crop Credit
Interest                           8.60
Repayment of Stock Credit
Interest and Loan                 19.30
Net Cash Balance             134.50
TOTAL                   353.60      353.60
/1    Income from 10 improved sheep at 6 lb wool each at
R 0.3/lb plus sale of 5 lambs at R 5.0 each = 43.00.
June 30, 1972



Al              a



ANNEX 24
Page 1
LESOTHO
TEABA BOSIIT RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        Tables 1 and 2 show incremental project benefits from crop
production and dairy farming. Table 3 details annual costs and benefits
'used in calculating the estimated rate of return to the economy of
Lesotho.  Table 4 shows a sensitivity analysis and the rates of return
obtained from the project and its components.
2.        The economnic life of the project is assumed to be 25 years, the
estimated life of project structures, buildings and permanent on-farm im-
provements.
3.        Investmnent costs are as shown in the project cost tables, exclusive
of taxes or duties and with the adjustments noted in the following paragraphs.
4.        Expatriate staff of the crop improvement program would be replaced
by counterparts before or at the end of Project Year 6. Before their replace-
rment, expatriates would allocate some of their time to extra-project activi-
ties such as extension of the proposed project, and support to national
institutions. The proportionate time allocated to these activities is
shown in the following table:
Years of
Project Investment Period         1-9    3    4    5    6
-----  Percent---
Project Manager                    -     -    20   50   -
Financial Controller               -     -    -    10   20
Senior Extension Officer           -     -    -    50   50
Senior Credit and MarketinE,
Officer                      -      5    10   20   25
Senior Conservation Officer       -      -    -    50   80
Expatriate staff salaries and staff on-costs have been adjusted proportionately
in project economic costs. The social scientist for the Integrated Farming
Program would spend 25Z of his time on an educational program at Roma Uni-
versity in Year 1. Ihis involvement in the project would decrease progress-
ively and stop in Project Year 10.
5.        Administrative, Extension, Credit and Marketing Services required
at the end of the project investment period could be progressively reduced
without affecting project achievement. From Year 7, administrative and
extension services costs have been reduced annually over three years by 25%



AXiEX 24
Page 2
of their full capacity and maintained at that level tlLereafter.  Credit
facilities have been reduced and maintained at 75% of their full capacity.
Narketino staff at headquarters would be transferred to CLL, thereafter
dedicating about 25% of their time to the project.
6.        Soil conservation staff _o be provided by USAID are included in
project costs at salaries USAID would pay. However, some of the USAID staff
assigned to the project would narticipata in a national program which exceeds
project requirements. The costs of consultancies, the 'techanical Superintendent
and half the technical assistants are excluded, to compensate for this, and
salary costs, for rate of return purposes, are reduced to levels comparable
with other project expatriate salary costs. Farmers would maintain the soil
conservation structures with family labor and no maintenance costs have therefore
been included.                                                                                  4
7.        Costs of the research program for better fertilizer use, wqhich
would have national impact, are not included as economic costs of the project.
8.        Only phvsical contingencies have been included in economic costs;
it is assumed that price increases, due to inflation, would apply with about
equal effect to costs and benefits, and cancel out.
Benefits
9.   (a)  Yields and output of proJect produced coimmodities hiave been
taken from Table 1. Production has been reduced by 10% to
allow for partial crop failure about one year in five.
Proceeds of crop sales would be received, on average, about
half a year after costs have been incurred. It would, thierefore,
be incorrect (and overstate the economic rate of return - by
about 2%) to show costs and benefits occurring simultaneously in
the same year.  It wiould also be incorrect, and understate the
return, to show costs in one year and benefits one whole year
later.  To comnensate for this, half the crop proceeds are
included in the year in which the costs are incurred and half
one year later.
(b)  Benefits of soil conservation are of uncertain magnitude and
have been calculated on the following different assumptions:
(i) soil conservation cost included in project cost but
no additional benefit attributed to soil conservation
alone;
(ii) benefit of soil conservation included as avoidance of
crop loss that would occur without it fro, 2 bags/ac
to 1 bag/ac at the rate of 5% per year value R3/bag,
period of loss, 15 years (see Amnex 3, Sec.ion E);



ANIEX 24
Page 3
(iii) same as (ii) but average crop valued at R6Jbag
(the average for the project) - the most probable
assumption.
(iv) same as (iii) with loss at rate of 7% per year.
(v) same as (iii) with loss at rate of 3% per year.
(c) The effect of these various assumptions and the sensitivity
of the economic rate of return are shown in Table 4.
10.       Prices.  Returns have been calculated using gross prices for
average grades on the 1971/72 South African market, for maize, sorghum and
wlheat (slightly less than the price for best grades in Annex 11, Table 8);
and a forecast for beans, 10% lower than at present, to reflect expected
market conditions. From these prices the cost of bags and cleaning, as shown
in Annex 11, Table 8, have been deducted. These prices are expected to
increase annually as they have done in the past, to reflect increases in
production costs. Since investments have been costed in terms of current
Rand, estimated prices have also been maintained in constant Rand values.
11.       Residual values for staff houses no longer recuired for the project
are based on a 25-year life.
12.       Extra-Project Traffic.  Statistics (August 1971) show that the
number of vehicles now on project roads varies from about 5 to 40 per day,
15 to 40% being heavy vehicles (3 tons and over). The saving in transport
costs is estimated at R 0.055 per heavy vehicle mile and R 0.08 per light
vehicle mile. Annual nileages would be approximately 115,000 for heavy
vehicles and 283,000 for light vehicles. This would mean a saving of about
R 28,000 as from the fourth year of the project, estimated to increase at
5% annually thereafter.
Attached: Tables 1-4
July 5, 1972



a I



AINNEX 24
'ESOTWn                                               Table I
THA8A BOSIU RURAL DEVELOP18IT PROJECT
Estimated Production
(Bags of 200 lb.)
Year   1           2        3           4           5          6a
onwards
Matel
Production with project
Acres                             120         360     1,200       2,400      4,800       7,200
Yield (bags/ac)                     8           8         8           8           8           8
Production (bags)                 960      2,880      9,600      19,200     38,400      57,600
9071%                864      2.592      8_640      17.280      34.560     51-840
Production without project3i
Acres                             120         810     2,700       5,400      10,800      16,200
Yield                               2           2         2           2           2           2
Production                        240       1,620     5,400      10.800      21.600     32_400
Incremental Production              624         972     3,240       6.480      12.960      19_440
Additional Production_/              -           -                    -        11,400      22,8003/
TOTAL M4AIZE                     624         972     3,240                  24,360      % 724
Production with project
Acres                              80         240       800       1,600       3,200      4,600
Yield                               8           8         8           8           8           8
Production                        640       1,920     6,400      12,800      25,600      38,400
90%2/                   576       1,728     5,760      11,520      23,040      34,560
Production without project!/
Acres                              80         540     1,800       3,600       7,200      10,800
Yield                               2           2          2          2           2           2
Production                        160       1,080     3,600       7,200      14,400     21,600
Incremental Production              416         648     2,160       4,320       8,640      12,960
Additional Production!/              -           -        -           -         7,600      15,2003/
TOTAL SORGHUM                   416         648     2,160       4,320      16,240     28,160
Wheat
Production with project
Acres                              -          600     2,000       4,000       8,000      12,000
Yield                              -            7          7           7          7
Production2/                       -        4,200    14,000      28,000      56,000      84,000
9       3,780    12,600      25,200      50,400      75,600
Production without project.3/
Acres                              -          180       600       1,200       2,400       3,600
Yield                              -                       2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5
Production                              -          450      1,500      3,000       6,000       9,000
TOTAL WHEAT                     -       3,330    11,100       22,200      44,400     66,600
Beans
Production with project
Acres                              50         600     2,000       4,000       8,000      12,000
Yield                               4           4          4          4           4           4
Production                        200      2,400      8,000      16,000      32,000     48,000
9071/                   180       2,160     7,200      14,400      28,800      43,200
Production without project3t
Acres                              50         180       600       1,200       2,400       3,600
Yield                               I           1          1           1          1
Production                         50         180       600       1,200       2,400       3,600
TOTAL BEM.2S                  f                   6l,60 1 00   2.4                   39,600
TOTAL ACREAGE DEVELOPED        250       1,800      6,000      12,000     24,000      36,000
1/ The current proportion of maize and sorghum to total crop land is estimated at 45% and 30% or
a ratio of maize to sorghum of 3:2.  The ratio would be maintained under the project, but the
total acreage devoted to these crops would be reduced from 27,000 to 12,000.
2t Production estimate reduced by 10% to allow for oartial cre0 failure about one vear in five.
3/ After project Year 1, production without the project has been estimated on the basis of the
existing acreage proportions of 45% maize, 307. sorghum, 10% wheat, 10% beans and 5% fallow.
4/ From -he 75,000 ac. of land suitable for cultivation in the project area, 36,300  wcould be
improved with project inputa.  Soil conservation. extension and better marketing vould cause
increased yields on the remaining 39,000 ac. by the equivalent of 0.5 bag/ac of maize/sorghum
in Year 5 and by 1.0 bag from Year 6 onmards.
June 29, 1972



LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Proiect Benefits
Year       1            2         3          4           5            6
onwards
Crop IIDIovement
Maize      (Bags)                            (624)         (972)   (3,240)    (6,480)    (24,360)    (42,240)
Sorghum   (Bags)                             (416)        (648)   (2,160)   (4,320)    (16,240)    (28,160)
Wheat      (Bags)                                       (3.330)  (11,100)   (22,200)    (44,400)   (66,600)
Beans      (Bags)                            (130)      (1,980)   (6,600)  (13,200)    (26,400)    (39,600)
TOTAL VALUE                      Rand    S,208        50,757   16,188   338,376    739,832.  1,141,288                4
Integrated Program
Maize bags                                                                       (720)     (1,620)     (3,240)
R at 3.4/bag                                                             2,450       5,508      11,016
Sorghum bags                                                                    (540)     (1,080)      (2,160)
R at 3.2/bag                                                             1,730       3,456       6,912
,Wheat bags                                                                      (680)     (1,370)     (2,700)
R at 5.6/bag                                                             3,780       7,560      15,120
Bean  bags                                                                       (225)       (450)       (900)
R at 13.5/bag                                                            3.040       6.075      12,150
11,000      22,599      45,198
Dairv Farming
Cows additional                                (5)         (20)       (50)       (80)        (200)        (45)
Cows cumulative                                (5)         (25)       (75)      (155)        (355)       (400)
Milk at R 0.24/gal                            300        1,500      4,500      9,300      21,300      24,000
Sale of yearlings and
cull cows at R 30/cow/year    Rand          150          750      2,400      4,150      11,400      12,600
TOTAL BENEFITS FROM  FARI                                -
PROGRAM                              450         2,250      6,900    14,250       32,700      36,600
June 28, 1972



LESOTUO
THARA  BDSIU RURAL DEIOPHENT PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations
(Thousand Rand)
Year          1          2          3          4           5          6          7          8           9         10      11-24        25
Costs
Project costs                         1,252        907       1,108        996      1,180        978        647         647        647       647       647         647
Adjlstents
On-fam coats and
Integrated Farming                   -            2         22          79        157        340        349         346        343       340       340         337
Technical Services                    (69)       (39)        (37)       (41)       (47)       (47)        (77)       (94)      (111)      (111)    (111)       (111)
Credit                                -          -           -          -          -          -           (14)       (14)       (14)      (32)       (32)       (32)
marketing                             -           (20)       (46)       (67)      (134)      (135)        (47)       (47)       (47)       (47)      (47)       (47)
Soil Conservation                     (87)       (47)        (49)       (54)       (56)       (31)       -           -          -         -          -          -
Administration                        -          -           -          (15)       (24)       -           (54)       (68)       (83)       (83)      (83)       (83)
ContingEeies & Working Capital          3         13          86         51         85         94          93         89         89        89         89         47
Eccoadic coets                        1099                   1084         949       1,161     1199          897        859        806       803       803         758
Crop ifpProvfelt--                    -            5          51        169         338       740       1,141      1,141        -          -         -          -
Adjusted over 2 yea2/                   3         28         110        254         539       941       1,141      1,141      1,141      1,141     1,141      1,141
Roads                                 _          _           -           28          29        31          32         34         36         38        40         40
Soil Conservatiou3'                   -           27          53         77         101       124         145        166        186       204        223        312
Integrated Famiang Crops              -          -           -          -            11        23         45         -          -         -          -          _
Adjsted over 2 yers                   -                                   6          17        34          45         45         45         45        45         45
Dairy farmin                          -            1           2          7          14        33          37         37         37         37        37         37
Sub-total                                    1           2         13          31        67          82         82         82        82         82         82
Residual value of houses                          -          -           14         -           52        122         21         18         13                  -
TOTAL llEntFItS                   3         56         165        386         700     1,5         1,522      f,444      1,463      1,478     1,486      1,575
NET      ITlLrS              (1,096)       (0)        (19)       (63)         (i61)       16        625        585        657        675       683        817
1 Crop benefits as froa Tables I and 2.
/ According to pargr 9(a) of this Anne.
See Anez 3, Section X:
(a)  Sheet erosion: amnml loss of 5. from 2 bag/ac to 1 bag/ac (15 years) over 40,000 ac at the average price of R6.0/bag.
(b) Onlly erosion:  loss of 250 ac per year with an average yield of 2 bags/ac R6.0/bag = R3,000.
July 5, 1972
4 >



ANNEX 24
Table h
LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity of Economic Rate of Return
Most Probable                                                       Percent
1.  Crop Improvement, including Soil Conservation
Costs/Benefits with Integrated Farming on
3,000 ac in Years 4-6.                                          11
2. Prices increased 10%.                                              13
3. Prices decreased 10%.                                               8            4
4.  Costs increased  10%.                                              9
Components
5. Crop Improvement excluding Soil Conservation
Costs/Benefits.                                                 10
6.  Soil Conservation alone.                                          10
7.  Integrated Farming alone, excluding overheads                     17
Alternatives
8. Crop Improvement, including Soil Conservation costs
but no additional Soil Conservation Benefits.                    6
9. As in 1 with crop price R3/bag instead of R6/bag
for Soil Conservation Benefits.                                  9
10. As in 1 with Soil Conservation Benefit at rate of 7%                             4
per year.                                                       12
11. As in 1 with Soil Conservation Benefit at rate of 3%
per year.                                                        9
12. Project extended to Year 13 with Integrated Farming
on all 36,000 ac.                                               14
13. Project advanced one year.                                        15
July 6, 1972



LESOTHO
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
LESOTHO GOI.ERNMENT
PROJECT GOMMITTEE                                       PRDJECT CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE
-NANIR  PEP     -SE   TAv                                           -S OF FAR-Rs (,H
rFIMANCE  EET A          -E                                               CHIEFS  (4S
MIR4ISSR FOE ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     I ST,1  -1,111
lANG FIANNINA a                 ASMINISTR-ATIOPNNNI  .-t                                                                     LA.IN  QIIC
-_      ._ n       - n    R                                               UNDF LEHRIE
AMI-ITRATION                                                    SOIL CONSERVATIONC.T
DEPUT FINANCIAL                                                G Y CNERVATION                                             R                       eFEGXTeNSION              TRAINING                                         OFCER E
CONT  RLLE R                                                 coNorRLc  v GFFlcefi                                                             Of FICE R _
1~~~~- W1                                                                        1                                   I-
AnCA~~~~~~~~~~AI MArERIEOR                                                     EDIT
I~ ~~~~~~~~~~AE MARKETING                                                SU)PERVISORS (4)
SENI;;CnEYAINR  D                                                                                                                               ASS1 AREA 
ACCOUNTA:T|EGKE                                                      NIER|                            FANT   l                                  SPEV`"R so..     |                                            |
| EODKKEEPJNG1                                                                                                     |     E^TENSION       |                                 | MARst rl NG STAFF  l              l   CREDIT AGeNT~~~~~~~~~~I,
STAFr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El,80                                                                                                                                                       FRI G-ATS
" ono tu te P>O^]nted LoPuxs rroect Manager In Year 2 or Q                                                                                                                                                      World Eallk - E770AGETt4WIR(I)G



p



t 0: tF~~~~~~~~~~"
1~~|Pt) > , ./.'\\2-
~~~~--e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * r Z J '' - \ '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                    e
.           q;  02z~; X ,5r ,a



