DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Pubbc Use
FILE  r",'hOPY                       Report No P-1181-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR THE
THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 9, 1973
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does not accept
responslbility for the accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           = Rand (R) 0.78
A                  R 1            = US$1.28
R 1,000,000    = US$1,280,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Jt



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE KINGDQM4 OF LESOTHO FOR
THE THABA BOSIU RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Kingdom of Lesotho for the equivalent of US$5.6 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development
Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report on the current economic position and prospects of
*           Lesotho was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 27, 1971.
There have been no fundamental changes in the economic situation since
then. The following paragraphs summarize the main characteristics of
the economy and highlight its problems and prospects. Country data are
given in Annex I.
3.        Lesotho is a small, mountainous nation surrounded by South
Africa. Average annual per capita income is below $100. Recurrent
crop failures cause shortage of food supplies and malnutrition is
widespread. The country has few natural resources except for water
and beautiful scenery, neither of which is fully exploited. Diamonds
are found in the mountains but commercial development has so far been
on a small and inefficient scale by individual diggers. Oil exploration
has recently begun but there have been no promising finds.
4.        Because of its location, Lesotho has close economic ties with
South Africa. It belongs to a monetary and customs union with Botswana,
South Africa and Swaziland, uses the South African rand as its currency,
relies on South Africa to provide central banking services and foreign
exchange and receives a substantial portion of its current revenue from
the common revenue pool of the customs union. South Africa is Lesotho's
main trading partner; and about 170,000 Basuto, almost half the male labor
force, work in South Africa because of limited employment opportunities in
Lesotho.
5.        Lesotho has been politically divided since January 1970, when
after alleged election irregularities, Prime Minister Chief Jonathan
suspended the Constitution, dissolved Parliament, jailed the opposition
leader and many of his followers and dismissed many civil servants who
sympathized with the opposition.  Since then, the Prime Minister hastruled
by decree.  However, early in 1972 he released the opposition leader and
some of his followers and is actively seeking their cooperation in bring-
ing about national unity.



-2  -
6.        The economy has been stagnant for a ntumber of years and the
increasing volume of remittances from Biasuto working in South Africa
has probably been the most significant growth elemeni in the economy.
Agriculture provides a livelihood for about 85 percent of the resident
population and contributes about 65 percent of GDP. The other productive
sectors are small, and only around 20,000 persons find wage employment
within Lesotho.  Manufacturing, mining, construction and public utilities
together contribute no more than 5 percent of GDP. Governnent adminis-
tration accounts for 8 percent and the remaining 22 percent represents
thelestimated added value of trade and services.
7i        During recent years the government's budgetary position has                   J
improved considerably.  The recurrent deficit was reduced from about
50 percent of recurrent expenditure in 1966 to about 15 percent in 1971
mainly as a result of the renegotiation of the Customs Agreement and a
strong check on recurrent expenditures. Lesotho's share of the common
revenue pool increased from R1.9 million in 1969 to R5.9 million in
1971 and it now contributes nearly 60 percent to total recurrent revenues.
The recurrent deficit is met through grants-in-aid from the U.K.
8.        Since government is unable to generate any budgetary savings
and the monetary union with South Africa limits the possibilities for
domestic borrowing, virtually all of its development expenditare has
to be provided from abroad. The U.K. and private aid agencies have in
the past financed most of the government's capital expenditure which
averaged about R2.6 million per year since 1966. This low level of
spending is partly due to the shortage of personnel experienced in
planning, preparing and implementing projects and partly to the un-
settled internal political situation.
9.        In 1971, Lesotho adopted its first development plan which
calls for government capital expenditure of about R6 million per year
over the next 2-3 years. Prospects for increasing capital expenditure
to this level are fairly good, as the government has recently been
successful in expanding its sources of aid to include Canada, Denmark,
the Federal Republic of Gernany, Sweden and the United States. However,
difficulties in meeting the recurrent costs of essen-tial government
services and new projects are likely to continue.
10.       Government is also improving its administrative ability to
carrjg out development projects. It is initiatLng studies in the
transport, education, tourism, telecommunications and power sectors
to identify suitable projects for external financing.  Having been
designated by the United Nations as one of the Least Developed Countries,
Leso-tho is receiving an increased amount of technical assistance from
TJDP and bilateral sources. The move toward political reconciliation
enables government to utilize more fully- its internal manpower potential.
It is hoped therefore that within a year, or two additional clearly defined
projects suitable for external assistance will have been prepared.



-  3  -
11.       Nevertheless, the scarcity of natural resources and its
geographic position make Lesotho's prospects for economic development
rather poor. Present government programs may lead after a few years
to some increased agricultural production.  A medium-scale diamond
mine is expected to come into operation in late 1973; but the prospects
for developing mining of diamonds and other minerals on a large scale
seem limited. Any substantial development in manufacturing must be
export oriented and this at present is hampered by the uncertainty of
free access to markets in South Africa, which are often protected by
cartel or market-sharing arrangements. The prospects for tourism are
somewhat better, and the construction of a second hotel/casino complex
is now underway.
12.       Lesotho's external public debt is very low and largely in
the form of loans for self-liquidating projects.  Since Lesotho is
likely to continue to be able to draw on the foreign exchange earnings
of the whole Southern African monetary area to service its external
debt, its credit-worthiness depends upon its budgetary position. Its
present budget deficits are expected to continue to decline but it may
take three to four years before government is able to finance current
expenditure from its own resources. Therefore, development investment
requires finance by external lenders of practically the entire cost of
projects, and on the softest possible terms.



- 4 -
PART II - BANK GROUP LEEDEN-G TO LESOTHO
13.       The project now proposed would Ice the first Bank group operation
in Lesotho since independence in 1966. One previous credit of $4.1 million
was made for a road project in 1966, when the area was still the UK High
Commission Territory of Basutoland. In addition to the present project,
a credit is planned if possible in FY1974 for preliminary works and design
for a dam, reservoir and tunnel to divert water for export to South Africa.
The Bank was Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed feasibility study of the
scheme, which is known as the Malibamatso River Diversion Project. The
credit would be followed by a Bank loan to assist in financing the
construction of the scheme. Any progress on these projects will depend
on the successful completion of negotiations between Lesotho -and Eouth
Africa which are currently stalled over the issue of the water sales price.
If satisfactory arrangements are concluded between Lesotho and South Africa
on the price of water, Lesotho would benefit from a substantial addition to
her resources for development.
1L4.      Other contemiplated Bank group operations in Lesotho are related
to the development plan's stated objectives of increasing agricultural
production and improving and expanding economic and social infrastructure.
We plan to supplement our capital assistance with substantial amounts of
technical assistance. We plan to advise the government on thet scope and
focus of the transport, tourism and education surveys it intends to under-
take. Our Permanent Mission in East Africa (PMEA) helped prepare the
present project which provides for an evaluation unit to collecti data to
be used in the preparation of future projects in agriculture. We hope to
be able to continue to provide assistance in the identification and
preparation of future IDA projects.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
15.       Agriculture in Lesotho is dominated by subsistence farming which
constitutes about 50 percent of GDP.  Productivity is low, and the limnited
available data suggests that yielcis have slowly declined over -the past 20-
25 years due primarily to overstocking of livestock and soil erosion. Only
15 percent of the country's small area is suitable for cultivation while
the rest is mountainous and suitable onlLv for grazing.  Growth in both
human and livestock populations has led to increasing pressure on arable
land (550 persons per square mile). Tne main crops are maize, sorghum,
wheat, beans and peas; although food crops (mainly maize and sorghumn) are
grown on 75 percent of arable land, Lesotho has to import substantial
amounts of food each year.
16.       Overstocking, improper cultivation, torrential rainfall and
inadequate soil cover nave all contriouted to the acute soil erosion.
Conservation programs started in the 1930's introduced countour far,nirng



which has helped reduce the problem. However, since traditional grazing
management and cropping systems were not altered the program has been only
partially successful. Under the traditional land tenure system a farmer
has exclusive rights to the land he tills, but only during the time he
has crops on the land.  After harvest, his exclusive rights cease and any
crop residues left become communal grazing fodder available to the livestock
of all the people in the area. The individual farmer has no incentive to
*              control the number of his animals; and overstocking, elimination of the
vegetative cover and erosion result. Fortunately, there are signs that
this traditional system is changing as precedents for year-round exclusive
land use are being established. Grazing control and pasture management
regulations which government intends to introduce would require grazing
permits and the culling of undesirable stock, promote proper soil
conservation practices and give farmers exclusive rights to their crop
residues.
17.       The problems caused by erosion and traditional farming methods
have been compounded by the lack of trained manpower to carry out agri-
cultural improvement programs. The Ministry of Agriculture is currently
under-staffed and in particular has a critical shortage of extension
officers due largely to the dismissal of many experienced staff during
the 1970 political disturoances. The government intends to increase its
capacity to administer agricultural programs by adding a Planning and
Marketing Unit staffed largely by UNDM experts and by rehiring some of
the workers previously dismissed for political reasons.
18.       Agricultural development has also been retarded by the lack of
established institutions to furnish nationwide credit and marketing
services. Until now these services have been provided by a number of
unrelated organizations with little central coordination or control.
Marketing is carried on through private traders, through a cooperative
organization backed by government and through a government-controlled
livestock marketing corporation. Credit is provided by a number of small
institutions which are currently unable to handle credit on a national
scale. Government recognizes the need to build stronger institutions and
has decided to establish a Produce Marketing Corporation for crops. In
addition, in 1971 it established the Lesotho National Development and
Savings Bank as the channel for development financing, including agri-
cultural credit. However, it will be some time before these new entities
are able to provide extensive services as the legislation establishing
the marketing corporation has not yet been enacted and the bank began
operations only in late 1972.
19.       Increasing agricultural production is one of the key goals of the
current Development Plan, and government has begun a number of programs
designed to tackle the serious problems in the agricultural sector. In
addition to the present project and the manpower development and
institution-building programs described above, it has undertaken a large
UNDP-sponsored project in the north designed to demonstrate modern farming
methods and to train a core of agricultural staff for other projects. It
has also started a project to promote agricultural development in the south
by strengthening the existing extension service in the area. It will be some
time before these programs have any impact, 'but they constitute an important
start.



- 6  -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
20.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Thaba Bosiu  iural Development
Project - Lesotho'? (No. PA.-l47a dated Ja1ilTaary 24, 1973) is being circulated
separately.  A Credit and Project 3umItmary is provided in Anne:x l f .
21.       The project was identified and prepared by government with major
assistance from the Bank and also FAG and was appraised in the field in
March 1972.  Negotiations for the Droposed IDA Credit were held in Washington
in December 1972. The Lesotho goverrnment was represented by:
H.E.M.T. Mashologu, Ambassador to United States; Mr. K.T.J. R.akhetla,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agricu.lture; Mr. T. Thahane, Director of
Planning and Developnent; Mr. E. Waddington, Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Finance; Mr. M. P. Sejanamane, Planning Officer, Ministry of Agriculture;-
Mr. B.M. Woods, FAO Adviser, Ministry of Agriculture and Mr. V. Burke,
Project Manager Designate.
Objectives and Main Components
22.       The main objective of the project is to raise the standard of
living of about 12,000 smallholder families by increasing their maize, sorghum,
wheat and bean production. The government will attempt to achieve this aim
by arresting soil erosion and introducing modern agricultural practices
in the project area leading to integrated crop and livestock farming on a
rotational basis. This rotation method combines better cultivation techniques
with controlled grazing of stock. It would initially be introduced on a pilot
basis on 5,000 acres of the total project area of 300,000 acres. Farmers
practising these rotational farming methods would be given full rights over
their cropping, and provided with contiguous grazing land which would enable
them to fence their land, limit stock numbers and introduce a cropping plan to
include fodder, grassland and crop rotations. But the farmer will need
education, persuasion and demonstration before accepting these new methods.
The project therefore provides training, extension services and research
facilities to help introduce the new concept of farming. The government's new
grazing control and pasture management regulations (see para. 16) will assist
in bringing about necessary changes in land use and grazing patterns.
23.       The main project components are (a) farm inputs as short-term
credit in kind; (b) medium-term credit for tractors and dairy cattle;
(c) extension services; (d) marketing; (e) training and research; (f)
road development and soil conservation.
Organization and Execution
24.       The project would be carried out by the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development
Authority (the Authority) which has been created by the Lesotho government
pursuant to regulations satisfactory to the Association.  The Authority, which
is composed of the Senior Permanent Secretary (Chairman) and top civil servants
of relevant ministries, would approve budgets, recruit senior staff and provide
marketing and credit services.  It would be free from normal government



regulations with respect to staff selection, salary scales, procurement and
accounting procedures. The project manager, assisted by a financial
controller and division heads for land planning and soil conservation,
marketing and credit and extension services, will be responsible for day-
to-day management and execution of the project.  A Project Liaison Committee
is being established in order to involve participating farmers in project
management and to serve as a forum for discussion of farmers' views and
problems.
25.       The project is the first of its kind in Lesotho and also relatively
large for such a small country.  Staffing and training would, therefore, be
critical to its success and the project makes provision for this. It also
allows a year for planning and preparation, and provides for a gradual build-
up over six years to the total estimated number of farmers served. The
planned number of extension workers is relatively low (1:250 farmers), but
since project participants would form farmers associations of 20 to 100
members the extension workers would make more efficient use of their time.
The government is aware of the difficulties in staffing and administering the
project and has already selected the project manager, identified local staff,
and begun some small training programs for school leavers with bookkeeping
backgrounds.
Credit and Marketing
26.       The Authority would provide the credit and marketing for the
project initially, because existing institutions are at present inadequate
(see para. 18). However, government may ultimately wish to transfer these
functions to national institutions once they are fully operative and,
accordingly, provision for such a transition has been made in the credit
agreement.
27.       The Authority would operate market centers through which it would
distribute farm inputs, market crops, and collect credit repayments and from
which advisory services would be extended. The Authority would not be the
exclusive marketing outlet in the project area; farmers would still have an
option to sell to private traders. Therefore, it is not possible to ensure
that the seasonal credit granted to farmers by the Authority be collected at
the time of marketing. The Authority would have to rely on the sanction of
further credit refusal and on help from farmer associations to ensure
repayment. Credit to most individual farmers would be made through approved
farmers' associations which would assist in the processing and collection of
loans. In accordance with current practice in Lesotho, if a farmers,
association has a member in default to the Authority, the Authority would not
make a loan to 2m member of this association in the following year. Members
of the association would,therefore, put pressure on an individual delinquent
to cure a default.



- -)
28.       The customs agregLenz ~rjth  Au     ,  trlca nermit,s f:ree access to the
South Wirican mnarket for the crops to be produced under the projecte  It is
expected that about half the maize wi:Li be conssumed in Lesotho and all other
produce sold in South Africa, where it will either be taken up by the
appropriate marketing boards or5 in thle case of beans  exported through
commercial channels.  Prices fixed by the Farketing boards are usually hiJgher
than world prices.
Evaluation Unit
29.       A project evaluation unit w'ould monitor the progress of the
project and collect and evaluate data foli the preparation of fut,ure rural
development projects iR other areas.  USAID is furnishlng a rura.l
sociologist who would be attached to t,he unit and focus on some of the
broader problems of rural development.
Project Costs and Ftiancing Plan
30.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $9.8 million -
$5.4 million (56%) in foreign and $4.4 m.llion (44s%) in local costs.
IDA would provide $5.6 million (57%) of total costs. Of this amount $3.8
million would be for foreign costs and $1.8 million for local costs. The
remaining funds would be provided by USAID as a grant, the government, local
banks and participating farmers (see Annex III for details of the financing
plan). IDA and USAID funds would be made available to government who would
pass them on to the Authority as a grant.  Comercial bank loans for crop
purchases would be made directly to the Authority.
31.       USAID has approved, subject to available funding, a six year program
to provide $2.8 million as a parallel grant to finance the soil conservation
component of the project. An agreement providing for this assistance for
the first two years ($1,056,000) is expected to be signed shortly; and
signature of this agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit. The remaining finance for soil conservation will be provided
by subsequent agreements. USAID is providing the senior staff for the Land
Planning and Soil Conservation Division of the Project Authority and the
rural sociologist for the evaluation unit. USAID has agreed that the staff
it provides will be under the control of the project manager, because
of the need for soil conservation to be closely integrated w.ith the
other aspects of the project.
Procurement and DIisbursement
32.       All vehicles, tractors, farm eatipment and fertilizer (totalling
$0.9 million) would be procured by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. IHowever, to facilitate initial
purchases and emergency replacements the project manager wou:Ld be given
freedom to purchase through local competitive tender items costing less than
$8,000 up to an aggregate of $60,000. Project roads ($0.6 m4llion) are in
small isolated sections and buildings ($0.6 million) are few and widely



- 9 -
scattered. Neither would be sufficient in value to attract international
competitive bidding. Contracts for roads and buildings, would therefore,
be subject to government local tender procedures which require competitive
bidding. Seeds ($144,000) and dairy cattle ($60,000), suitable for local
conditions, would be purchased in nearby South African markets. Equipment
for soil conservation to be financed by USAID ($0.3 million) would be subject
to USAID procurement procedures.
33.       The credit would be disbursed against the cif cost of imported
goods or 90 percent of the cost of locally procured goods. The Association
would finance 100 percent of total expenditures of expatriate staff to
minimize the burden on the government.Disbursement for all other project
items would be against 90 percent of total expenditures. The credit provides
for retroactive financing from January this year of up to $100,000 for staff
training costs and the salary of the project manager.
Economic Justification and Benefits
34.       The estimated economic return, including the return on soil
conservation, is 11 percent. Project overheads and training are a high
proportion of costs as the project is the first of its kind in Lesotho and
is designed to bring about basic changes in traditional attitudes.
The project would increase annual cash crop production of maize by 4,600,
sorghum by 3,100, wheat by 7,000 and beans by 4,100 tons and thereby
increase exports, reduce dependence on food imports and help feed a growing
population. The annual cash income of some 12,000 farm families is estimated
to increase from US$25-28 to US$60-75. It is hoped that the demonstration
effect of the adoption of rotational farming techniques, which could lead
subsequently to three or fourfold increase in farm incomes, will be widespread
throughout the country.
35.       The cost of marketing services is recovered through buying and
selling charges, and part of the cost of providing credit services is
recovered through interest charges. The government will consider introducing
a development levy at a later stage, when the project is sufficiently well
established, integrated farming introduced and when participation has proved
profitable.
36.       Although adverse factors, such as weather, have been taken into
account in calculating the rate of return, the project would be subject to
many uncertainties that cannot easily be quantified. Success depends, for
example, on overcoming resistance to change in a traditional society, which
would affect the willingness of farmers to accept new techniques, including
enclosure and livestock limitation, and to maintain soil conservation works
against insidious erosion; on persuading tractor operators to use more
efficient methods; on prompt collection of credit, in the light of past
failures. But farmers in the project area show willingness to accept change
and enthusiasm for the project, while government offers fervent support and
has publicized the project extensively. The chances of success are there-
fore good. The project is extremely important to Lesotho, which has few
alternatives for economic development.



- 10 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
37.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Association and the
Kingdom of Lesotho, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion and the text of a resolution approving the proposed credit are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
38.       Ever since the suspension of the constitution in 1970, Lesotho
has had a de facto government.  However, the government has indicated its
intention to honor its international obligations; and after considering
the factors involved, I have concluded that the de facto government should  *-'
not be regarded as a bar to Bank group lending.                                    i   J
39.       The draft agreement conforms to the normal pattern for credits    /         ;
for agricultural projects.
40.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMEMIATION
241.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
S. Aldewereld
Attachments
February 9, 1973



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
COUNTRY DATA - i.O  I.
AREA       ,X2              POPULATION-                                                    DESTY_
30,350  km-                0.95million (mid-1971)                                           30  per km
Rate of Growth:/ to ?.5,'from 19('to 1371)                     210  per km2 of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (year)                                        HEALTH (1970)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                                             Population per physician
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                                             Population per hospital bed  EGc4
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)
INCONE DISTRIBUTION (year)                                               DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP (year)
% of national income, lowest quintile  %..                               % owned by top 10% of owners          .
highest quintile                                 % owned by smallest 10% of owners
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (year)                                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (year)
% of population - urban                                                  % of population - urban
- rural   ..                                                             - rural
NUTRITION (year)                                                         EDUCATION (1966)
Calorie intake as % of requirements                                      Adult literacy rate %
WPer capita protein intake    ..                                            Primary school enrollment %  91
(unadj ustEd)
/2
GNP PER CAPITA in 1970:  US $9',
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 196(768                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7., constant prices)
US $ Mln.        %                        1960-65             19t7-70-           1967,/4P
GNP at Market Prices              7L. 3       100.0                        ..                  ..                -3
Gross Domestic Investment          8.1         10.9                        ..                  ..
Gross National Saving              7.1          9..
Current Account Balance           -1.0         -1.3                                   .         *                     /) /c- 
Exports of Goods, NFS             10.'         13.9                        .-                  -4.                -'.7-  X  /
Imports of Goods, NFS             36.3         13.9                        *-                   0.0 /5             4     /
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1967/68
Value Added                           Labor Force                      V. A. Per Worker
us$ Mln.       %                       Mln.         %                     US$           %
A griculture                      02.4        65.4                       ....
ndustry                        3. 91.9                              ..9
Services                       19.2        29.7                      ..
Unallocated
Total/Average            614.9       100.0                                100.0                               100.-0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Central Government
( Rand Min.)         % of GDP                   ( Hand  Mln.)        % of GDP
197077T       1971      1968-71                  197 0/71     197      196 -7
Current Receipts                                                                           10 ..  ..  10.7
Current Expenditure                      .1. 2.1
t     Current Surplus                           ..            ..         ..                      -1.L         . 
Capital Expenditures                     ..            ..         ..                        2.1
External Assistance (net)                ..5 ..                                           ..
/l  Dc facto population.  In addition, about 150,000 Balsotho  o-r-nt.s wor> n- in 3oilt '
77  The Pcr Canita 2JP cstirm.to ic at 1970 r,nrkct nric_:, cclcu-.     byv the sarre convera4  n-
technique as the 1972 Wdorld Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this table are
at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/3  In current prices.
7   Estinrated deflator of 24.
77 Gcods only.
7 1270
not available
not applicable



ANdNEX I
Page 2 of 2
COUNTRY DATA - TLE":090
Sept        3pt
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                       1965         1969         1970         1971         1971        1972
(Million 5td  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                         ..           ..           ..
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)       .     .            .7? 2.2    *-
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 ..           1.9         2.6           .            ..
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             ..           ..          ..
General Price Index (1963 = 100)/1                      1?0.5         5./          3?.5        1''.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index/l                          4.1         .3           4.1         5.7           .           7.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                  ..           ..          22.4
Bank credit to Private Sector                 ..           .. '         . .
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 196-70)5)
1967/68  1970      1971                                                 US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Cattle and other live sninmls    1.          2'.0
Exports of Goods, NFS          10.7       ..        ..                   Rood stuPf                       1.0       19.-
Imports of Goods, NFS          36.3      ..        .ol                                                    1.1 
Resource Gap (deficit   -)                     -                        Mohair                            0.6  l      -,
Diamonda                         l.l      21.2
Interest Payments (net)                   ..       ..                 All other commodities               0.1        1.O
Workers' Remittances            6.7       ..        *.                      Total                         5.2    1OO
Other Factor Payments (net)   -0.6
Net Transfers                  18.9       ..        ..               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1971
Balance on Current Account                 .
US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment
Net MIT Borrowing                                                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                7.7
Disbursements                ..        ..       ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                 ..        ..       ..                 Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                     ..        *-       *-                                           /2
Capital Grants                  ..        ..       ..               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197l-
Other Capital (net)             ..        ..
Other items n.e.i
Increase in Reserves (+)        ..        ..        ..                 Public Debt, intl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year) /2      .        .         .                 Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves   (end year),        .        .         .                                                                             J
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Jan. 1973   ) (Million US $)
Through  - Dec. 1971          Jure 1`72 - Cct. 1972                                                    IBRD        IDA
US $ 1.00 =R   U. 7           Floating with Pound -terling
R 1.0O   US S 1.40                                           Outstanding & Disbursed                 -          5.
Undisbursed
Dec. 1971 - June 1972          Since Cct. 1972                  Outstanding incl. UJndisbursed          -
US $ 1.00 .  R   0.75)        US01.00 =   RC.?7
R 1.00 = US $ 1.33          R l.OO = US91.9.,
/1  Consumer orice index South Africa.
,/2  Lesotho uses the South African Rand as its currency and has no central hank of its o-n.  It,
therefore, does not maintain its own foreign exchange reserves, and the debt sarvine ratio is
not a useful concept for assessing the government's creditworthiness.
not available
not anplicable



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN LESOTHO
Statement of IDA Credits at January 31, 1973
(US$ million)
Amount (Less Cancellation)
No. Year       Borrower             Purpose    IDA             Undisbursed
82   1966      Lesotho              Roads       4.1
Of which has been repaid
Total held by IDA               4.1
Total undisbursed                -
.






ANNEX III
Page 1
Lesotho - Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                            Kingdom of Lesotho
Beneficiary:                         Thaba Bosiu Rural. Development Project
Authority.
Amount:                              Various currencies equivalent to USt5.6
million.
FProject Description:                The project would provide the following over
a six year period for about 12,000 peasant
farmers on 60,000 acres of land:
(1) On-farm Inputs: Credit in kind consisting
of improved seed, fertilizers, pesticides,
soraying and cultivation services, tractors,
ploughs, cultivator/planters, and dairy stock.
(2)  Training Extension and Research Services:
Additional staff, buildings, equipment and
vehicles for (a) extension services, (b)
expansion of existing farmer and tractor
training centers and (c) research designed to
support the integrated farming program by
developing improved cropping and grazing
patterns appropriate to the small farmer.
(3) Credit Services: Staff, buildings,
equipment and vehicles needed in connection
with providing project credit.
(4) Marketing Services: Staff, enuipment,
vehicles and five principal and six
subsidiary markets to serve as the focal
point for distribution of materials, for
purchase and storage of project output,
repayment of credit and provision of extension
services.
(5)  3oil Conservation:  Around 1700 km of
diversion terraces; (00 drainage structures;
repair to, or reconstruction of, i100 hm of
terraces; and protective fencing, grass and
tree planting.



ANNEX ITT
Page 2
(6) Roads: About 90 km of all-weather
gravelled main roads, 100 km dryweather
ungravelled subsidiary access roads and
400 km of farm access roads.
(7) Integrated Farming: Staff, buildings,
vehicles, equipment and additional
fertilizer and livestock inputs for inte-
grated farming (i.e. fencirLg and sheds for
improved livestock production, controlled
grazing of livestock and the implementation
of a cropping plan that includes fodder,
grassland and cron rotations).
(R) Project Administration: Staff and
buildings for the project authority which
will implement the project.
Estimated Cost:                      Costs:  Project costs are estimated at $9.8
million, with $5.4 million (569) in foreign
costs and $4.4 million in local costs.
A more detailed breakdown is set forth in
the follow.ing table:
Costs in US$ (thousands)
Item                                Local            Foreign           Total
Seed, fertilizer, pesticides,
cultivation, tractors and dairy
cows                                 223              937            1,160
Training, extension and research       625              512            1,137
Credit services                        315              198              513
Market services                        766              323            1,089
Soil conservation                      961            1,500            2,461
Integrated farming                      91               99              190
Roads                                  239              386              625
Administration                         332              533              915
Sub-total                                                              8,090
Contingencies                          736              944            1, 68&
Total project cost                                    5,432            9,770



ANN.E'X III
Page 3
Financing Plan:                      Summarized project financing (including
contingencies) is as follows:
Farmers   Banks   Govt.   USAID   IDA   Total
-JUS$ (thousands)---------------
On-farm costs                            280      - 1   120         _   1,070   1,470
Staff and operations                      -      530-    280    1,220 3,000   5,0,0
Vehicles and equirment                    -       -        40       300   350      690
Buildings                                 -       -        70       180   640      890
soil conservation works                   -       -        50,  1 100   540   1,690
Totals                                720      S30      7           , 600   9,700
(Percent)                             (3)      (5)      (r)     (2)  (57'   (100)
/1 Incremental working capital for crop purchases.
72  Including UNDP US$40, 000.
The $5.f million provided by IDA comprises
the equivalent of the foreign costs
not financed by USAID (i.e. +)3.8m or 70% of
foreign costs) and the local costs not financed
from another source (i.e. tl.8m or L3% of
local costs).  The IJSAID contribution is for
soil conservation (except aerial survey and
vehicles); the commercial banks contribution
is for produce financing and the farmer's
contribution is for downpayments and credit
reserves.
Estimated Disbursements:
73/724    74/75      75/76      76/77      77/78      7 8/7?     7 /80
0.5       0.4        1.2        0.9        1.-        1.0       .T
Procurement Arrangements:            (1)  Vehicles, tractors, farm equipment and
fertilizer (totalling US$0.9m)would be
procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding on the basis of Bank/IDA
guidelines.
(2)  Roads (US$0.6m), buildings (uS$0.6m),
seed ($144,000) and dairy cattle ($60,000)
would be procured pursuant to the Borrower's
tender procedures.
(3) So-l conservation equipment financed by
USAID ($0.30m) would be procured in accordance
with USAID regulations.



ANNEX IIT
Page a
Rate of Return:                       The most probable rate of return, including
the return on soil conservation is ll%.
The integrated farming phase of the project
has returns in the 15-2Ml7 range.
Appraisal Report:                     Report No. PA- 1h7a   dated January 2h, 1973
Agriculture Projects Department.



H§:s XX X S i=0ll: :e X ffS ,-v 4i
o-o~~2=-t\%   SS9f 
jVAVLi0X*--'SSX,^- \t f;f< 0 Xf
'': X   t:S:  f   t/r ) K       s A:,A\   s 
5i lX                                                               '



