CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 361 LSO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 23, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 361 LSO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 23, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1973, between KINGDOM OF
LESOTHO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Agency for International
Development, an agency of the Government of the United States of America
(hereinafter called AID) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of
Part H of the Project, and AID has approved, subject to available funding, a six-year
program to provide such assistance as a grant in an estimated aggregate amount
equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand dollars ($2,800,000); and
(C)   By an   agreement   dated  February   26,   1973   between   the
Borrower and AID, AID has agreed to provide assistance for the first two years
of such program, in an aggregate amount equivalent to one million and fifty-six
thousand dollars ($1,056,000).
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Authority" means the Tbaba Bosiu Rural Development Project
Authority established pursuant to Order No. 9 of March 2, 1973 of the Borrower's
Council of Ministers (The Development Projects Order 1973) and under Legal
Notice No. 11 of March 2, 1973 of the Borrower (The Thaba Bosiu Rural
Development Project Regulations 1973), and includes any successor thereto.
(b)   "AID Agreement" means the agreement dated February 26, 1973
between the Borrower and AID for the purpose of Part H of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
agreements supplemental to the AID Agreement, all subsequent agreements
providing funds to the Borrower pursuant to the program referred to in Recital
(B) of this Agreement and all schedules and annexes to the AID Agreement.
(c)   "AID" means the Agency for International Development, an agency
of the Government of the United States of America, and includes any successor
agency.
(d)   "beneficiary"  means any   farmer, farmer-association, registered
cooperative society or small agricultural contractor in the Project Area, who is
qualified to receive credit services under Part A of the Project.
(e)   "Project Manager" means the person serving as the chief executive
officer of the Authority, referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement.
(f)   "Project Area" means an area of about 300,000 acres comprising most
of the Phuthiatsana (Little Caledon) Watershed and Berea Plateau, as defined in
the Thaba Bosiu Rural Development Project Regulations 1973 of the Borrower.
(g)   "Project Period" means the period during which the proceeds of the
Credit will be disbursed.
(h)   "CLL" means the Co-op Lesotho Limited, a cooperative society
established pursuant to Proclamation No. 47 of 1948 of the Borrower, and includes
any successor thereto.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million six hundred thousand dollars
($5,600,000).
Section 2.02. TK-, amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972,
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
August 1, 1983, and ending February 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Project Manager is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause the Authority to
carry out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of subsection (a),
the Borrower shall, notwithstanding any suspension, cancellation or termination
of provision of funds by AID under the AID Agreement, make available to the
Authority, promptly as required, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required to enable the Authority to carry out Part H of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: the Borrower
shall: (a) cause the Authority to employ, during the Project Period, persons with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to serve in the following positions: Project Manager;
Financial Controller; and the heads, respectively, of its Land Planning and Soil
Conservation Division, Extension Division and Marketing and Credit Division.
(b)   cause the Authority to employ, at all times during the Project Period,
a sufficient number of qualified staff to carry out the Project, on terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall:
(a)   make the proceeds of the Credit, the proceeds under the AID
Agreement and funds referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement available to
the Authority as a grant;


﻿7
(b)   establish and maintain a bank account for the Project (other than that
part of the Project financed by AID) (hereinafter called The Project Bank Account)
subject to the control of the Project Manager;
(c)   adjust and replenish the amount in the Project Bank Account at
monthly intervals to a level at least equivalent to the estimated amount of payments
to be made for goods and services required for the Project less the estimated
amounts of payments to be made directly by the Association to the suppliers,
consultants or contractors for such goods and services, during the next three
months' period; and
(d)   cause the Project Manager to be appointed the Chief Accounting
Officer of the Authority.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower may, to the extent practicable, use its own
staff to carry out Part G of the Project.
(b)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (a) hereof, in carrying out
construction works under the Project (other than Part H), the Borrower shall
employ or cause to be employed qualified and competent consultants and
contractors.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority:
(a)   to carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the lending
policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b)   to be the sole governmental agency responsible for credit operations
other than those included in Part A of the Project in the Project Area but mpy
authorize other institutions to undertake such credit operations on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Authority.
Section 3.06. The Borrower agrees that the roads, markets, stores, staff
housing and other buildings to be constructed under the Project shall be in locations,
and shall conform to design standards, acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying
out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall:


﻿8
(i)         cause to be established and maintained a Project Credit Account
which shall reflect all credit operations included under Part A
of the Project;
(ii)        ensure that adequate provision is made to meet the estimated
credit needs under Part A of the Project with funds from (a)
contributions by the Borrower including the proceeds of the
Credit allocated for Part A of the Project, (b) contributions by
the beneficiaries, and (c) debt repayments of the beneficiaries;
and
(iii)       cause control over the Project Credit Account to be vested in
the Chief Credit and Marketing Officer of the Authority, subject
to the general direction of the Project Manager.
(b)   If the Borrower shall at any time during the Project Period wish to
carry out Part A of the Project through any organization other than the Authority,
the Borrower shall first obtain the consent of the Association and shall cause the
Authority and such organization to enter into an agreement satisfactory to the
Association, providing for the respective obligations of the Authority and such
organization towards the carrying out of the Part A of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall at all times, take or cause to be taken all necessary
steps to ensure that credit provided under the Project will be repaid by the
beneficiaries, including if required, the exercise of all available legal remedies against
delinquent beneficiaries.
Section 3.08. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(i)         cause the Authority to be the agent of CLL for commodity
purchases and marketing in the Project Area;
(ii)        cause CLL to carry on its operations on a commercial basis;
and
(iii)       make arrangements to obtain from commercial banks or other
financial institutions, adequate   financing   for  commodity
purchases and marketing under the Project, at a rate of interest
not less favorable than the then prime rate on government
overdrafts, including, without limitation, if required, the
guaranteeing of all such financing.


﻿9
(b)   If the Borrower shall at any time during the Project Period wish to
place iesponsibility for marketing of produce in the Project Area in any organization
other than the Authority, the Borrower shall cause the Authority and such
organization to enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, providing
for the respective obligations of the Authority and such organization towards the
carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall make available or cause to be made available
to the Authority the necessary facilities at (i) the Borrower's existing Matelas
Farmer Training Center, and (ii) at the Borrower's existing tractor school at Maseru,
for the carrying out of Part D of the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall at all times maintain and repair or cause
to be maintained and repaired, all roads included under Parts G and H of the
Project, in accordance with appropriate engineering and administrative practices,
and shall make available, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall not implement or permit to be implemented
the construction of any soil conservation works included under Part H of the
Project, unless prior to such implementation, arrangements satisfactory to the
Authority for the maintenance and protection of such works shall have been made
with appropriate authorities, including the beneficiaries and chiefs in the area
affected by such works.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, by the dates indicated below or such later
dates as shall be agreed to by the Association, submit or cause to be submitted
to the Association for the Association's approval:
(a)   specific plans for the carrying out of training programs uinder Part
D of the Project by June 1, 1973; and
(b)   specific plans for the carrying out of agricultural research under Part
E of the Project by October 1, 1973.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to prevent
overstocking of livestock and impose grazing control within the area included in
Part F of the Project, and shall submit by June 30, 1974 to the Association for
approval specific plans for the implementation of such measures.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
or make or cause to be made adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported


﻿10
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of dhe Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.15. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as thc.
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Without limiting or restricting the generality of the provisions of
subsection (b), and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause the Authority (i) at all times during the Project Period, to maintain
an evaluation unit to monitor the progress of the Project and to collect and evaluate
agricultural, economic, financial, technical and other data for the preparation of
similar rural development projects in other areas, and (ii) to prepare and submit
to the Association, quarterly reports and not later than three months after the
end of each fiscal year of the Authority, annual reports of Project progress, in
scope satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.16. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall make availaile to the Authority for purposes of
the Project, without cost to the Authority, suitable land (i) for construction and
operation of the markets and stores included under Part C of the Project; and


﻿11
(ii) for all office buildings, workshops, laboratories, stores and staff housing required
for tie Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Authority.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Authority to: (i) maintain separate
accounts in commercial form showing the results of each of its activities under
the Project; (ii) furnish to the Association, within 60 days after the end of each
quarter or fiscal year, quarterly summaries of its accounts and financial statements,
aid draft annual financial statements; (iii) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Auditor General of the Borrower or other independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (iv) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than three months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (v) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Authority and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes that:
(a)   it will consult with the Association regarding its policies affecting (i)
the prices at which commodities produced by farmers participating in the Project
are purchased and sold and (ii) the marketing of such commodities sufficiently
in advance of the implementation of such policies for the Association's comments
to be considered; and
(b)   in establishing the policies referred to in subsection (a) hereof, it will
take due account of market conditions and incentives for farmers participating
in the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the


﻿12
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound practice.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Authority and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Authority and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿I
13
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.0 1. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Development Projects Order 1973 of the Borrower or the Thaba
Bosiu Rural Development Project Regulations 1973 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior agreement of the
Association.
(b)   AID shall have suspended disbursements under the AID Agreement
or the AID Agreement shall have been terminated pursuant to paragraph P of the
Standard Provisions Annex thereto.


﻿1
14
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and the Borrower shall fail to obtain funds from other sources in
substitution therefor, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
within a period of one hundred and twenty days.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the AID Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, has been duly executed and authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action and has entered into force pursuant to the terms thereof;
and
(b)   that the Project Manager has been employed by the Authority in
accordance with Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as as additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the AID
Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
in accordance with its terms.
Section  8.03.   The   date  June   22,   1973   is   hereby  specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03 and 5.02(a) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿15
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru, Lesotho
Cable address:
FINMIN
Maseru
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿1.6
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ M. T. Mashologu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in               Expenditures
Categoy                 Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.   On Farm Inputs,                 850,000               100% of foreign
including seed,                                      expenditures or
fertilizer, pesti-                                   90% of total
cides, cultivation                                   expenditures
services, dairy
cattle, fencing and
sheds, tractors,
plows, cultivator/
planters and draft
animals
11.  Vehicles and Equip-             300,000               100% of foreign
ment                                                 expenditures or
90% of total
expenditures
III.  Technical Assistance -         950,000               100% of total
emoluments and costs                                 expenditures
of international
travel for Expatriate
Staff
IV.  Civil Works (staff            1,000,000              90% of total
housing, buildings                                   expenditures
and roads)
V.   Emoluments for Local          1,600,000               90% of total
Staff, Project                                       expenditures
Operation and Main-
tenance
VI.  Aerial surveys and               20,000               100% of foreign
mapping                                              expenditures or
90% of total
expenditures
VII. Unallocated                     880,000
TOTAL              5,600,000


﻿18
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of payments made after January 1, 1973
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   expenditures (other than expenditures for aerial surveys and mapping,
and vehicles) for Part H of the Project.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above


﻿19
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿I
20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a program of the Borrower for rural development in the Project
Area, designed to increase productivity of agriculture and farmer income and to
arrest soil erosion. The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Credit Services
The provision of credit services to beneficiaries to enable them to obtain
the input packages (including improved seeds, fertilizers, pesticides spraying and
other farm inputs), tractors and machinery, draft animal, and dairy stock, and
to enable selected farmers and farmer associations to participate in the integrated
farming phase of the Project (Part F of the Project).
B.    Extension Services
The provision of intensive agricultural extension services to beneficiaries
including advisory services on proper selection and use of seed and fertilizer,
cultivation techniques, crop timing, and proper control and production methods
for livestock.
C.    Marketing Services
The provision of marketing facilities and services to beneficiaries including
the construction and operation of markets and stores to serve as the focal points
for distribution of input packages provided under Part A of the Project, for the
purchase of farm output, for the provision and repayment of credit, and for the
provision of extension services under Part B of the Project.
D.    Training
(1)   The provision of additional staff, buildings and equipment for the
Matelas   Farmer   Training  Center, to    serve  the  training  and
demonstration needs of credit, extension and marketing services under
Parts A, B and C of the Project, respectively; to train farmers in crop
and livestock production and simple budgeting; to train managers of
farmer-associations; and to conduct seminars and for related training
purposes; and
(2)   The provision of additional staff and equipment for the existing tractor
school at Maseru for training of tractor operators.


﻿21
E.    Research
The provision of staff, vehicles and equipment, farm buildings, staff housing,
simple laboratories and related services and facilities for agricultural research
designed to improve rain-fed crops and to support the integrated farming phase
of the Project (Part F of the Project) by developing improved cropping and grazing
patterns.
F.    Integrated Farming
The development and implementation of a program of integrated crop and
livestock farming in an area of about 5,000 acres within the Project Area, including:
mapping and measuring of farm holdings; land registration; more intensive use of
farm inputs; fencing and sheds for improved livestock production; controlled grazing
of livestock; the implementation of a cropping plan that includes fodder, grassland
and crop rotations.
G.    Roads
The construction of about 90 km of all-weather gravelled main roads, and
about 100 km of dry-weather ungravelled subsidiary access roads and the provision
of maintenance equipment for such roads.
H.    Soil Conservation
The development and implementation of a comprehensive soil conservation
program in the Project Area, including without limitation: the construction of
farmer access roads, with associated protective fencing, grass and tree planting;
grass-covered diversion terraces; and drainage structures; the construction or
reconstruction of, or repair to, existing or new terraces; the construction of
multi-purpose earth dams on natural waterways; the improvement of natural or
constructed waterways; the construction of fencing to protect critical installations
(e.g., stabilized waterways and drop structures); the planting of trees for erosion
control; aerial photography and mapping, soil analysis, and the preparation of
coordinated agricultural and soil conservation plans for each of the main marketing
areas included under Part C of the Project; coordination with the integrated farming
phase of the Project (Part F of the Project).
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth in Paragraph 3 of this Schedule vehicles,
tractors, farm equipment and fertilizer included under Categories I and 1I of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, shall be procured on the basis of international competition
under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972, and in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
2.    With respect to any contract for the purchase of goods referred to in
Paragraph I of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿23
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ fror those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
3.    Any contract for the purchase of goods referred to in Paragraph I of this
Schedule estimated to cost below the equivalent of $8,000 is exempted from
international competitive bidding provided that the aggregate of all such contracts
shall not exceed $60,000 equivalent.
4.    With respect to any contract other than those referred to in Paragraph 2
of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
5.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. Maseru price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation
of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
6.    (a)   Orders for tractors shall be bulked in each year, and beneficiaries shall
be enabled to purchase tractors directly from the successful bidder.
(b)   In evaluating bids for the supply of tractors, the Borrower shall
consider, inter alia, the availability of servicing in the Project Area, and shall obtain
from the successful bidder, an undertaking to provide adequate servicing in Maseru
or the Project Area.
7.    Contracts for the construction of roads (other than those to be carried out
by the staff of the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement), for


﻿24
other civil works and for the purchase of goods not subject to international
competitive bidding shall be let in accordance with the Borrower's tender procedures
provided that the Project Manager shall be authorized to procure goods or services
estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than $6,000 by obtaining price
quotations.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 4
Policies and Procedures for Credit Operation
1.    General - Credit shall be extended normally in kind to beneficiaries for three
categories of inputs: (i) seasonal inputs; (ii) tractors and equipment, and
draft animals; and (iii) dairy cows and sheds.
2.    Channelling of Funds - Credit shall be provided by the Authority through
the Project Credit Account referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
Funds from beneficiaries, contributions and debt service shall be credited
to such account.
3.    Supervision of Credit Operations - Credit operations shall be under the
direction of the Chief Credit and Marketing Officer and assisted by the
Deputy Credit Officer, Credit Assistant and accounting staff under the general
direction and control of the Project Manager.
4.    Eligibility of Beneficiaries
(a)   The suitability for candidates to receive loans shall be assessed by the
Chief Credit and Marketing Officer and his staff;
(b)   Credits t- individual farmers may be made through approved farmers'
associations which would aszist in the processing and collection of loans
and which would have sanctions for the repayment of such loans
satisfactory to the Authority. In such cases, the farmers' association
shall assess each individual suitability before processing and approval
by the Authority. No Credit shall be made to any member of a farmers'
association if any member of such association is in default in debt
repayments to the Authority; except where arrangements satisfactory
to the Project Manager shall have been made to remedy the default
and except when the credit is based on the member's individual
creditworthiness independently of his membership in such association;
(c)   Credits may also be made to registered cooperative societies and
approved farmers' associations capable of being used as individual legal
entities for their own use or for on-lending to their members.
5.    General Conditions for Granting Credits - Before granting a credit the
Authority must be satisfied that:


﻿1
26
(a)   the recipient is a farmer, (preferably member of a farmers' association),
an eligible farmers' association, a registered cooperative or a small
agricultural contractor;
(b)   the recipient has requested credit from the Authority under the Project;
(c)   the recipient has a farm    or contracting business established in the
Project Area, and resides there or has a conpetent member of his
extended family resident near the lands to be farmed;
(d)   the recipient is not in default on debt repayments to the Project or,
if in default, that he has made arragements to remedy the default
satisfactory to the Authority;
(e)   if the recipient is a farmer, he has the right to farm  sufficient lands
to utilize the loan funds;
(f)   small agricultural contractors (1) have completed an approved training
course at the Maseru tractor training school or have equivalent
approved experience or employ a tractor driver trained under the
Project; (2) undertake to buy approved machinery; (3) will regularly
maintain such machinery; (4) will give priority services to farmers in
the Project Area; and (5) work for cash or Project credit only; and
(g)   recipients of livestock   credits are part of the integrated farming
program under the Project or control individually sufficient land to
maintain the livestock and provide their keep.
6.    Credit Terms - Terms of the credit to be provided under the Project shall
be as follows:
(a)   Annual Credits for Seasonal Inputs - The beneficiary shall pay in
advance 10% of the credit plus 10% of the credit as a bad debt reserve
and 10% as a crop failure reserve. A bad debt reserve shall be
established in the name of each individual beneficiary and shall be
used to pay outstanding credit in the event of default by such
beneficiary. The reserve shall be refunded to the beneficiary at the
end of each year after full repayment of the beneficiary's credit. The
crop failure reserve shall be credited each year to a joint savings account
(in the name of the Authority and the individual beneficiary) which
will earn interest for the beneficiary until the amount in the reserve
reaches 100%    of the beneficiary's previous year's credit from    the


﻿27
Authority. Thereafter, the excess over 100% may be withdrawn with
the Authority's approval. The crop failure reserve may be applied
towards the indebtedness of a beneficiary in any year in which there
is crop failure.
(b)   Medium Term Credits - The beneficiary shall pay in advance 25% of
costs for tractors, equipment, draft animals and cow sheds, and 50%
of costs for dairy cows.
7.    Interest - Annual credits to individual farmers shall be charged interest at
1% per month on outstanding balances. Interest on medium term credits
shall be 9% per annum on outstanding balances. Credits to farmers'
associations or cooperatives made in accordance with Paragraph 4 of this
schedule may be made at lower interest rates to compensate them for their
work in processing of such credits.
8.    Repayment - The following policies and procedures shall be followed in
connection with repayment of credits granted by the Authority:
(a)   Annual credits shall be repaid immediately after harvest;
(b)   Medium term credits for tractors, equipment, draft animals, cow sheds
and dairy cows shall be repaid in regular installments (at least annually)
over a period of five years from the date of such credit;


