CREDIT NUMBER 316 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Road Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1972


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 316 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Road Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1972, between the REPUBLIC OF
UPPER VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h1) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Ministry" means the Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and
Urban Affairs of the Borrower, and
(b)   "Directorate" means the Directorate of Public Works of the Ministry.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($2,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿4
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1982 and ending April 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, engineering and


﻿5
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the procedures for the
procurement of goods and services under the Project, in the supervision of the
civil works to be carried out thereunder, and in the carrying out of Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. In order to agree upon the selection of the particular roads
or sections of roads to be the subject of the preinvestment studies comprising


﻿6
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as
available all relevant information, statistics and other data related to the Road
Plan of the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required to assess
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road network for
the proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
the Directorate be staffed at all times with qualified and experienced personnel
in adequate numbers.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall adequately maintain the roads included
in the Project and the other roads under the jurisdiction of the Directorate in
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views thiough their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Directorate and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and


﻿7
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Directorate and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the servic-
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿8
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date September 25, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower charged with Finances is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta


﻿9
Cable address:
Minifinance
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through     their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s / Dominique Sisso
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Civil Works:
(a)   Part A of the             1,210,000          75% of total ex-
Project                                      penditures
(b)   Part B of the               530,000          75% of total ex-
Project                                      penditures
II.   Consultants' Services:
(a)   Supervision of              110,000          100% of total ex-
Civil Works                                  penditures
(b)   Part C of the               500,000          100% of total ex-
Project                                      penditures
III.  Unallocated                      450,000
TOTAL          2,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods


﻿11
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditure" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if after consultation with the Borrower, the Association shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿12
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the construction, to the design standards set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, of two roads, and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies, as follows:
Part A. The construction of a road between Solenzo and Koundougou
(about 70 km),
Part B. The construction of a road between Hounde and Bereba (about
27 km); and
Part C. The carrying out of feasibility studies for the improvement of about
400 km of roads to be selected by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association on the basis of the information furnished pursuant to Section 3.06
of this Agreement, and the carrying out of final engineering on such of the selected
roads as shall have the highest priority.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Design Standard for Project Roads
Design Speed                                80 km/h
Formation Width                             7.60-7.80 m
Gravel (Laterite) Surface
Width                                 7.0 m
Thickness                             20 cm (Minimum)
Radius of Curves
Horizontal                            300 m (Minimum)
Vertical                              2,000 m - sag
3,000 m - crest
Bridges
Width between parapets                 4.50 m
Width of carriageway                  3.50 m
Design Loading
13 ton (metric) axle loads


﻿15
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, bidders shall be required to
prequalify. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants
are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions from
the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in the said documents as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award of the said consultants, and
the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
5.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


