CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 161 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 23, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 161 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 23, 1969


﻿Brorlopment TJrrbit Ag~mmut
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1969, between FED-
ERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of an education project consisting
inter alia of the construction, furnishing and equipment of
schools;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to make available to the Borrower a
development credit on the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to ten million live hundred
thousand dollars ($10,500,000).
SECTY-x 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the C i-edit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Categories I and III of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of sixty-nine per cent (69%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Category II of the allocation of the pro-


﻿5
ceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; provided, iowever, that if there
shall be an increase in the estimate of such pay-
ments for goods or services included in Category II,
the Association may by notice to the Borrower ad-
just the stated percentage applicable to such Cate-
gory as required in order that withdrawals of the
amount of the Credit then allocated to such Cate-
gory and not withdrawn may continue pro rata
with the payments remaining to be made for goods
or services included in such Category.
SECTION 2.04. Withdrawals from   the Credit Account
may be made on account of payments in CFA Francs for
goods produced, or services supplied from, outside the ter-
ritories of the Borrower; provided, however, that no with-
drawals from the Credit Account shall be made on account
of payments for taxes inmposed by the Borrower or any of
its political subdivisions on, or in connection with, the
importation or supply of such goods or services.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1979, and ending
June 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per


﻿6
cent (1/2 of 1o) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (111,%o)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this De-
velopment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Proj-
ect, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Association in February
1968, and in accordance with such other piocedures supple-
mentary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of
such goods and services shall be subject to the prior ap-
proval of the Association unless otherwise provided in said
Schedule 4.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial and technical practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿7
(b) In carrying out Part 1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association
upon such terms .ad conditions as shall have been approved
by the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association for its approval, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, contracts and work and pro-
curement schedules for the construction works included in
the Project, the lists of instructional equipment and furni-
ture included therein, and any subsequent material modi-
fications thereof, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(d) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain within the Ministry
of Education, Youth and Culture a Project Unit with such
responsibilities, powers and services as are specified in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall employ architectural consultants, selected
and retained in accordance with procedures agreed with the
Association and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association; such consultants shall be responsible for
the architectural, engineering, supervisory and technical
control services in respect of all construction works under
the Project, and the preparation of the contractual arrange-
ments therefor (subject to the Borrower's undertakings
pursiant to Schedule 4 to this Agreement).
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) ensure that
all such land and other property rights as shall be required
for carrying out Part I of the Project are immediately
available for the purpose; and (ii) take all such timely
action as shall be necessary for the acquisition of legal title
to such lands, such acquisition to be completed, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, not later than one year
after the date of this Agreement.


﻿8
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment of the educational institutions included in
the Project to be adequately maintained at all times, shall
cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be
made promptly as needed and shall cause adequate main-
tenance records to be kept by the ministries of the Bor-
rower responsible for such maintenance, repairs and re-
newals.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the educa-
tional institutions included in the Project to be so operated
as to promote the educational objectives of the Borrower
and to be provided with qualified teachers and administra-
tors in adequate numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall reinforce its Educational Plan-
ning Service and employ therein an adequate number of
Cameroonians qualified in educational planning, economics,
school building, agricultural education and technical edu-
cation.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and budgetary condition, in
respect of the Project, of the ministries, departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the operation there-
of, the goods and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the operation of the educational system of the Bor-
rower, the programs for educational development in its


﻿9
territories and the operations and budgetary condition, in
respect of the Project, of the ministries, departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and
the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party: (i) exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof, and
(ii) furnish to the other party all such information as it
shall reasonably request with regard to the general status
of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such informa-
tion shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes with, or threatens
to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.


﻿10
SECTION 4.07. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.08. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registra-
tion thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for the
period, if any, therein set forth, then, at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may, by notice to the Borrower, declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition of effectiveness within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that
provision satisfactory to the Association shall have been
made for compliance with the requirements of Section
4.02 (a) (i) and initial compliance with the requirements
of Section 4.02 (a) (ii).


﻿11
SECTION 6.02. The date of December 30, 1969 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of tho General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1974
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Ministre it Plan et du D'veloppe-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et du Developpement
Yaound6
Federal Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Minplan
Yaound6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, United States of America, as of the
day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ JOSEPH N. OwoNo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Jredit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. Furniture and Equipment for
Part 1 of the Project                   2,105,000
II. Construction Works, Siteworks and
Professional Services for Part 1 of
the Project                             6,892,000
III. Technical Assistance and Project Unit    720,000
IV. Unallocated                              783,000
Total    10,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I, II, or III shall decrease, the amount
of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category IV.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I, II, or III shall increase, an amount
equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gories I, II, or III from Category IV, subject, however,
to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by
the Association, in respect of the cost of other items in the
other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following three Parts:
1. A. The construction, furnishing and equipment of:
(a) three new primary teacher training colleges;
(b) extensions to the secondary teacher training col-
lege located in Yaounde;
(c) five new first cycle general secondary schools;
(d) extensions to three first cycle general secondary
schools located in Eseka, Nan:    Eboko and
Yokadouma;
(e) six new second cycle general secondary schools
(lyc6es);
(f) extensions to one second cycle general second-
ary school located in Bambili, including an agri-
cultural and a secondary teacher training wing;
(g) one new vocational training school;
(h) extensions to an existing technical lycee located
in Douala; and
(i) extensions to the higher school of agriculture
located in Nkol-Bisson.
B. The re-equipment of two existing vocational training
schools located in Ebolowa and Edea.
2. The provisions of 24 man-years of technical assistance
(advisers and teachers) and of 20 man-years of fellowships
to ensure that the schools included in Part I hereof function
satisfactorily and to assist the Ministry of Education,
Youth and Culture in the strengthening of its planning
services.
3. The establishment of a Project Unit to supervise the
execution of the Project and the provision of services and
facilities necessary therefor.


﻿15
The educational institutions to be included in the Project,
their location, their planned total full-day student enroll-
ment levels and the approximate area to be constructed for
each such institution shall be as specified in the Exhibit
hereto set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such
exhibit may be amended by agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1973.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Exhibit
List of Educational Institutions
Area of new
Total        construction
Item                            enrollment      (approx.
No.      Location'              capacity2      gross M 2)
New Primary Teacher Training Colleges
1    N'Goumou                    270             6020
2    Bafoussam                   210             3800
3    Bertoua                     210             3800
Extensions to the Secondary Teacher Training College
4    Yaounde                     500             1900
New First Cycle General Secondary Schools
5    Fort Foureau                320             3000
6    Mokolo                      320             3000
7    Yagoua                      320             3000
9    Batouri                     320             3000
10    Akonolinga                  320             3000
Extensions to First Cycle General Secondary Schools
8    Yokadouma                   320             2250
11    Nanga Eboko                 320             2250
12    Eseka                       320             2250
1In East Cameroon, unless otherwise stated.
2 For the schools to be extended, the capacity indicated is the total for
the extended facilities.


﻿17
Area of new
Total         construction
Item                              enrollment       (approx.
No.      Location'                capacity2       gross M2)
New Second Cycle General Secondary Schools
13     Obala                        360             3120
14     Sangmelima                   360             3120
15     Edea                         3403            3200
16     Bertoua                      180             2660
17     Garoua                       270             2940
18     Kumba (West Cameroon)        180             3060
Extensions to a Second Cycle General Secondary School
19     Bambili (West Cameroon)      360'            1500
Extensions to a Technical Lyc6e
20     Douala                       600             1580
Re-Equipment Only of Existing Vocational
Training Schools
21     Edea                         170
22     Ebolowa                      170               -
New Vocational Training School
23     Kumba (West Cameroon)        280             4100
Extensions to the Higher School of Agriculture
24     Nkol-Bisson                   120             770
1 In East Cameroon, unless otherwise stated.
2 For the schools to be extended, the capacity indicated is the total for
the extended facilities.
3 Includes 160 first cycle students.
4 Includes 80 students in the Annex of item No. 4, and 100 in the agri-
cultural wing.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement Procedures
1. With respect to goods and services in Categories I and
II of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, referred
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and required to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
under Section 3.02 of this Agreement, identical or similar
items to be procured shall be grouped together wherever
practicable for the purposes of bidding and procurement.
2. Contracts for Civil Works
(a) In respect of civil works contracts expected to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(i) Prior to inviting bids the Borrower shall submit
for approval by the Association:
(A) lists containing the types of works proposed
to be let and the estimated costs thereof, to-
gether with a description of the method to be
used for obtaining bids, the proposed ad-
vertising coverage and a timetable for their
award;
(B) a description of pre-qualification procedures,
the list of pre-qualified contractors and the
pre-qualification documents;
(C) the draft bidding documents and the draft
contracts.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval, prior to making any award, a summary
of bids received, the analysis of the bid by the
Project Unit, and a brief justification of the Bor-
rower's decision on the award.
(iii) As soon as a contract has been awarded, the Bor-
rower shall send a conformed copy thereof to the
Association.


﻿19
(b) In respect of civil works contracts expected to cost
less than the equivalent of $100,000, copies of all tender
documents, including invitations to bid, bid analyses and
evaluations as well as one conformed copy of any such con-
tract relating thereto shall be sent to the Association
promptly after the execution of any such contract and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
(c) The Borrower shall request the approval of the
Association for any proposed change in a contract involv-
ing a price increase of 5%o or more or of the equivalent
of $10,000 or more, whichever is less.
3. Contracts for Instructional Furniture and Equipment
(a) When evaluating bids for the procurement of in-
structional furniture, prices of locally produced goods shall
be compared with prices of imported goods on the following
basis: (i) the price of goods produced in the territories
of the Borrower shall consist of the ex-factory cost of such
goods net of all taxes imposed by the Borrower; and (ii)
the price of imported goods shall consist of the c.i.f. landed
cost of such imported goods plus a margin, to be agreed
with the Association from time to time but not to exceed
fifteen percent (15%) of such cost. This margin of prefer-
ence may be extended by the Borrower to local manufac-
turers of other member countries of C.A.E.C.U. (Central
African Economic and Customs Union).
(b) In respect of contracts for the supply of turniture
and equipment expected to cost the equivalent of $25,000
or more:
(i) Lists for all items of instructional furniture and
equipment required for the Project shall be pre-
pared by the Project Unit, showing the specifica-
tions and the estimated unit and total price of each
item.


﻿20
(ii) Prior to inviting bids the Borrower shall submit
for approval by the Association:
(A) the lists mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) here-
of, together with a description of the method
to be used for obtaining bids and the proposed
advertising coverage;
(B) the draft standard bid, tender and contract
documents.
(iii) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall send to the Association for its ap-
proval, prior to making any award, a summary
of bids received, together with the Project Unit
analysis thereof and a brief justification of the
Borrower's decision on the award.
(iv) As soon as the contract has been signed, the Bor-
rower shall send a conformed copy thereof to the
Association.
(c) In respect of contracts for the supply of furniture
and equipment expected to cost less than the equivalent of
$25,000, the lists of all items included in any such contract,
and copies of all tender documents, including invitations
to bid, bid analyses and evaluations, as well as one con-
formed copy of any such contract shall be sent to the Asso-
ciation promptly after the execution of any such contract
and prior to the b,ihmission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Ae-
count in respect of any such contract.
(d) The Borrower shall request the approval of the As-
sociation for any proposed change in a contract involving
a price increase of 5% or more or the equivalent of $10,000
or more, whichever is less.
4. Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded to a
supplier or contractor not registered in Federal Repub-
lic of Cameroon, the Borrower shall facilitate the accom-
plishment by such supplier or contractor of all formalities
which may be required to enable him to carry out such
contract.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 5
The Project Unit
1. The Project Unit shall be responsible for initiating, co-
ordinating and supervising all phases and aspects of the
implementation of the Project, including inter alia:
(a) the selection, briefing and supervision of architec-
tural consultants provided for in Section 4.01 (e) of this
Agreement;
(b) the approval of the design of the educational insti-
tutions included in the Project;
(c) the preparation of master lists of the furniture and
equipment to be procured for the Project;
(d) the preparation of bidding documents for all con-
struction works and for the procurement of furniture and
equipment, the analysis of bids and, where required by
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the making of recommenda-
tions regarding the award of contracts;
(e) coordination with the Secretariat of Public Works
of East Cameroon, and the Department of Public Works
of West Cameroon;
(f) the regular inspection of all construction works;
(g) the keeping of records, including financial records,
related to the execution of the Project; and
(h) the preparation of quarterly progress reports to
be sent by the Borrower to the Association.
2. The Project Unit shall consist of:
(a) a full-time Cbief of Project acceptable to the Associa-
tion, who shall have over-all responsibility for the direction
and coordination of its work;
(b) a full-time Project Architect (or Engineer) accept-
able to the Association, who shall in particular be respons-
ible for the direction and supervision, through the archi-
tectural consultants referred to in Section 4.01 (e) of this


﻿22
Agreement, of all construction works and for liaison with
the government departments responsible for such works as
well as with other official agencies having jurisdiction over
such works; and
(c) such technical, accounting, administrative, and secre-
tarial staff, as may be required for the efficient carrying
out of the Project Unit's responsibilities.
3. The Project Unit shall be provided with the necessary
office space and equipment as may be required by the Unit.


