0UFF1CZ'[l
0<CU MENT8cREDIT NUBER 1610 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Rehabilitation Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1610 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credi,t to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions have   the
respective  meanings   therein  set  forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 22, 1985 and
June 6, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)  "BDM" means Banco de Mocambique, the Central Bank of
the Borrower;
(d) "Metical" and the plural "Meticais" mean the currency
of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(e) "Economic Action Program" means the Borrower's Economic
Action Program for 19814-1986, as the same may be amended or
supplemented from time to time; and
(f) "Eligible Enterprise" means an enterprise which has
been agreed by the Borrower and the Association as being eligible
to utilize the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-five million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 45,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordaace with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank in the name of BDM on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled,
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1995, and ending May 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BDM is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts BDM with responsibility for the prepara-
tion of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for the


﻿-4-
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support of applications; such withdrawal
applications shal to the extent practicable be consolidated so
as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$500,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
diligence and efficiency and :"n conformity with appropriate
administrative  and  financial   practices, and   shall  provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association;
(ii) take all such action as may be required to ensure
that such financial and administrative measures
are adopted and implemented as are necessary to
ensure that all eligible goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit are
utilized for the purpose for which they were
procured;
(iii) cause loans in Meticais to be made to Eligible
Enterprises  when   required, subject   to  normal
procedures, for the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;


﻿-6-
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. In order to assist in ensuring the financial
viability of Eligible Enterprises in the Industry Sector, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take
all necessary measures to ensure that prices for goods produced
by such Eligible Enterprises are established at levels which are
at least equal to actual production costs, including an
appropriate allocation for administration, interest payments,
adequate maintenance and depreciation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Tcrmination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Procurement Unit referred to in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been established
and the procurement, accounting and logistics advisers to assist
the Unit have been duly employed.
Section 5.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated


﻿-7-
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O. Box 423
Maputo
People's Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:                       Telex:
MOBANCO                             6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United StaLes of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                    Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Raw materials,            27,800,000        100% of foreign
equipment, in-                             expenditures
cluding installa-
tion costs and
spare parts
for the Industry
Sector
(2) Raw materials,             9,050,000        100% of foreign
spare parts, tools                         expenditures
and workshop equip-
ment for the Transport
Sector
(3) Seeds, agricultural        5,060,000        100% of foreign
implements, produce                        expenditures
bags, irrigation
pumps and spare parts
for pumps and other
irrigation equipment for
the Agriculture Sector
(4) Office equipment, furni-      50,000        100%
ture and vehicles for
Project Implementation
(5) Consultants'                                100%
services for:
(a) Project                 460,000
Management


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) Industry             1,920,000
Sector
(c) Transport              560,000
Sector
(d) Studies                200,000
(6) Refunding of                400,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
TOTAL              45,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,720,000, may be made    in
respect of the purchase of seeds under Category (3), on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
February 1,1985; and
(b) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its
efforts towards economic recovery, particularly through the
rehabilitation of its industry, transport and agriculture sec-
tors, and to support the policy and institutional reforms
included in the Economic Action Program.
It consists of (i) a program for the provision of the requi-
site foreign exchange for the importation into the territory of
the Borrower of part of the essential raw materials, intermediate
goods, spare parts, equipment, implements, and seeds for the high
priority sectors of the Borrower's economy, consistent with its
Economic Action Program; (ii) strengthening the administrative,
technical and managerial capacities of Eligible Enterprises; and
(iii) carrying out of sector and other studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Modified International Competitive Bidding
1.   Individual supply contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded Through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Business; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single cur-
rency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."


﻿- 13 -
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $250,000 but less than $1,000,000 per contract may
be procured through limited international bidding procedures on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a
list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $250,000 per contract, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.   Contracts for proprietary spare parts and equipment, and
seeds shall be procured on a negotiated basis from the original
manufacturers or authorized representatives, on terms satisfac-
tory to the Association and such contracts which are estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 shall be awarded only
after the approval of the Association.
4.   Vehicles,   furniture  and  office   equipment  for   Project
implementation may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the


﻿-14
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the procurement of
goods under the Project, (ii) the carrying out of pre-investment
studies under the Project and (iii) the strengthening of the
administrative, technical and managerial capacities of Eligible
Enterprises, the Borrower shall employ experts or consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such experts
or consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   BDM shall, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, be
responsible for the overall coordination, monitoring and super-
vision of activities under the Project. In order to assist BDM in
performing its duties, BDM shall at all times during the imple-
mentation of the Project assign or appoint a program manager (the
Program Manager) whose qualifications and experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The Borrower shall cause its Minist6rios da Agricultura, dos
Portos, Caminhos de Ferro e Marinha Mercante, da Industria e
Energia, da Construcao e Aguas and do Com6rcio Externo and its
Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes Rodoviarios and de Estado da
Industria Ligeira e Alimentar to nominate designated officials to
serve as liaison persons with BDM and, in particular, with the
Program Manager for the purpose of the monitoring of the
Project. The Program Manager may, if necessary, convene meetings
of all designated officials to review the implementation of the
Project.
3.   In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall establish a Procurement Unit within
its Ministerio do Comercio Externo (hereinafter called the PU)
which shall include professional and other staff assigned from
the Borrower's trading corporations and an adequate number of
support staff. In addition, the PU shall be assisted by a
procurement adviser, an accounting adviser and a logistics
adviser, to be employed in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.   The PU shall be responsible for, inter alia; review and
approval of (i) lists and specifications of goods, (ii) technical
services, (iii) methods to be used in procuring such goods and
services and (iv) methods for the distribution of such goods,
included in the requests submitted by state trading corporations
on behalf of Eligible Enterprises which procure goods and ser-
vices through them or by Eligible Enterprises which are author-
ized to procure goods and services directly.
5.   Requests for utilization of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be made in appropriate form to the PU by state trading corpora-
tions on behalf of Eligible Enterprises which procure goods and


﻿-16 -
services through them or by Eligible Enterprises which are autho-
rized to procure goods and services directly. Each request shall
contain such information as the PU shall require and shall
include at least, the list of goods or services required, their
proposed utilization and the procurement procedures intended to
be utilized to procure such goods or services and the arrange-
ments for the payment to BDM of the Metical equivalent of the
foreign exchange required. The request shall also include the
text of the invitations to bid and the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding.
6.   Upon approval by the PU of a request, the following steps
shall be followed:
(i) modifications in the documents or procedures
required by paragraph 5 shall be made as the PU
shall require;
(ii) after bids have been received and evaluated, the
Eligible Enterprise or the state trading corpora-
tion responsible for procurement shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the PU
of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract, including the justification therefor, so
that the PU may review the same with a view to
concurring or rejecting the proposed award; and
(iii) the terms and conditions of the contract with the
winning bidder shall be submitted to the PU, for
its review, prior to the execution thereof.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (5) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 18 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Categories
(1) through (5), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Sched-
ule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (5) for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation and of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1) through (5) for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 19 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    74      day of
198O .
FOR SECRETARY


