E910
THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA
FOURTH POVERTY
REDUCTION SUPPORT
CREDIT
(PRSC4)
ANALYSIS OF
ENVIRONMENT AND
RESETTLEMENT ISSUES
Annex 4
March 11, 2004
FILE CbPy


﻿Annex 4
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOURTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
(PRSC4)
ANALYSIS OF ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES
1.     This document presents an analysis of environmental and resettlement issues in the fourth
annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC4) for Uganda. This EA discussion builds upon
the previous PRSC EAs, and considering that PRSCs are sequential annual tranches, repeats the
previous impact and mitigation considerations, adding more details regarding resettlement and
pesticides. The Annex is divided into four sections. Section I summarizes the project. Section II
summarizes impact and mitigation measures. Section III presents the key environmental,
resettlement, pesticide and other policy issues along with relevant mitigative measures and
monitoring needs. Section IV discusses institution capacity building for issues of environment
and involuntary resettlement in Uganda. Finally, Section V proposes indicative plans for
monitoring and supervision.
I. CREDIT BACKGROUND
2.     PRSC4 Project Goals, Objectives and Structures. PRSC4 continues to support the
implementation of Uganda's poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan (PEAP) and summarized in the Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
The overarching goal of PEAP policies and resource allocations is to reduce the incidence of
poverty in Uganda (based on the headcount index) from 44 percent in 1997 to 10 percent or less
by the year 2017. The PEAP also sets forth the specific goals of achieving universal access to
primary education, primary health care, safe drinking water, rural development, guaranteeing
political freedom and human rights, and establishing an effective disaster relief system targeted at
the poor. Government's strategy for poverty eradication is based on four pillars:
1.     Creating a framework for economic growth and transformation;
fl.    Strengthening good governance and security;
III.   Increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes;
IV.    Improving the quality of life of the poor.
PRSC4 continues supporting reforms under each pillar.
3.     PRSC4 Objective and Activities. The specific objective of PRSC4 is to improve public
service delivery, given that poor public service performance is one of the key constraints to
economic development and poverty reduction. In particular, PRSC4 will continue supporting the
reform program adopted under PRSCs1, 2 and 3, further developing and deepening the rural
agenda, specifically the agro-processing and marketing component. The reform program
supports activities that raise the quality of life and incomes of the poor; specifically, improve
access to and quality of education, health, water and sanitation services, and improve rural
services. Since improving the delivery of these services requires a more broad-based action than
only addressing sector-specific constraints to their delivery, the reform program focuses heavily
on cross-cutting governance issues (such as public procurement, financial management, anti-
corruption, and monitoring and evaluation) and public expenditure management.
4.     PRSC4 will support activities in the following areas:
1


﻿Annex 4
(a)    Public expenditure management financial sector strengthening, and monitoring
and evaluation. (i) align expenditure with PRSP priorities; (ii) include donor-
financed projects and link staffing plan with the wage bill in the medium-term
expenditure framework; (iii) reduce deviations from the budget; (iv) streamline
inter-governmental fiscal transfers; (v) enhance results-orientation of sector
expenditure programs; (vi) streamline and strengthen monitoring and evaluation
arrangements; (v) strengthen financial sector performance.
(b)    Cross-cutting public sector reforms: (i) public service management (public sector
pay reform, improve payroll management, control expansion of public
administration, launch a public service reform); (ii) public procurement (update
the legal and regulatory framework, reform procurement arrangements,
strengthen enforcement of procurement rules and regulations, improve efficiency
of National Medical Stores); (iii) financial management (update the legal and
regulatory framework, improve accounting and reporting, strengthen audit
structures and practices, implement regular expenditure tracking surveys); (iv)
transparency (improve access to public information); (v) civil society
participation (develop NGO policy and code of conduct); (vi) detection,
investigation and prosecution of corruption; (vii) legal and judicial reform
(implement commercial justice reforms to enhance enforcement of commercial
contracts).
(c)    Promoting enabling environment for rural development: (i) research and
technology (improve responsiveness and impact of publicly funded agricultural
research); (ii) agricultural advisory services (increase access and effectiveness of
agricultural advisory services); (iii) rural finance (develop legal and regulatory
framework for microfinance); (iv) land (implement the 1998 Land Act in a
prioritized manner, promote access to land by women and children/orphans); (v)
environment (integrate environmental sustainability concerns in government
programs); (vi) agro-processing and marketing (reduce constraints to agro-
processing and marketing).
(d)    Improve quality of education: (i) primary education (reduce pupil-teacher ratio,
pupil-textbook ratio, pupil-classroom ratio); (ii) post-primary education (develop
and implement a strategy for the expansion of post-primary education).
(e)    Improving health care: (i) health care financing (rationalize health care
financing); (ii) drug procurement and management (strengthen procurement and
management of drugs and medical supplies); (iii) human resources (increase
human resource for health); (iv) health infrastructure (improve health
infrastructure).
(f)    Increase access to and reliability, affordability, and sustainability of water supply
and sanitation (WSS) services: (i) rural WSS (strengthen decentralized planning,
preparation, implementation, and management; improve central government's
capacity to provide technical assistance to districts; utilize the local private sector
for WSS delivery; develop a strategy for national hygiene promotion, sanitation,
and communication); (ii) small towns WSS (introduce a new management
framework); (iii) urban WSS (introduce commercial operations, improve
financial sustainability).
In each of the sectors included in the PRSC, sector plans are prepared by sector working
groups, which include government officials, donors, NGOs, and private sector
representatives.
2


﻿Annex 4
5.     Environmental Classification and Safeguard Policy.  Based on the above project
objectives and structures, PRSC4 was classified as a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC) at a
meeting convened by the Bankwide PRSC Working Group, in accordance with the Interim
Guidelines for PRSCs of May 2001. According to Bank policy, the Operational Directive (OD)
8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental Assessment, apply.
Given the nature of the credit, which includes support to Uganda's Plan for the Modernization of
Agriculture, OP 4.09, Pest Management, is also applicable. In accordance with OP 4.01, the
credit was categorized as a B without a separate Environmental Assessment (EA), and is so
documented in the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet. In accordance with the Bank's revised
disclosure policy, this environment and resettlement Annex is being disclosed through the World
Bank InfoShop, and in Uganda with the World Bank Kampala office InfoShop and to NEMA for
distribution to the Districts.
6.     Potential Environmental and Resettlement Impacts of PRSC4. Overall, the activities
supported by the PRSC4 continue for the most part along the lines of the previous PRSCs. And
are not expected to result in major adverse, or irreversible, environmental impacts. Biophysical
environmental impacts, although thought to be modest given the nature of the activities, can be
foreseen at this time only in a generic manner. The potential for land acquisition, resettlement,
and effects on cultural resources also cannot be ruled out, but such effects are likely to be limited
in extent given the de-emphasis on large-scale construction in the PEAP approach and the nature
of IDA support to it. The environmental impacts of activities in agriculture, education, health and
water and sanitation are expected to be sufficiently addressed by appropriate Ugandan institutions
and implementing agencies. Potential conflict over land use, land tenure, and common property
may arise in some of these sectors. IDA currently has a strong presence in the above sectors and
will continue to work with counterparts to ensure that appropriate mitigative measures are
promoted and incorporated into credit activities. Table 1 shows the investment projects that
complement PRSC4 in the areas of environment, roads, agriculture, health, and water and
sanitation and their development objectives in Uganda. As relevant, each of these investment
projects fully incorporates Bank safeguards issues, management plans and monitoring of
environmental and social performance indicators.
3


﻿Annex 4
Table 1: Investment Projects Complementing PRSC4
Name of Project                              Project's Development Objectives
Environment:
Second Environmental Management Capacity     Promote sustainable environmental and natural
Building Project                             resources management at the national, district and
community levels.
Institutional Capacity Building--Protected Areas  Establish effective institutional capacity within
Management and Sustainable Use Project       wildlife and tourism sectors for strategic planning,
program development and implementation, and
promote long-term sustainability.
Lake Victoria Environment Credit             Rehabilitate the lake ecosystem.
Roads:
Roads Development Program                    Improve  access to   rural and  economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Second Phase of the Road Development Program  Improve  access to  rural and  economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Road Sector/Institutional Support Technical  Strengthen  the  Government's  road   sector
Assistance Project                           management.
Agriculture:
Agriculture Research and Training            To   support  technology   development  and
dissemination, consistent with Uganda's Plan for
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA).
National Agriculture Advisory Services Project  Establish an effective and sustainable demand-
driven agricultural advisory service.
Health:
HIV/AIDS Control Project                     Support the implementation  of the National
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS to reduce the
spread of HIV; mitigate the health and socio-
economic impact of HIV/AIDS; and to strengthen
the national capacity to respond to the epidemic.
II. SUMMARY OF IMPACTS, MITIGATION MEASURES, CAPACITY BUILDING
AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Sectoral Impact Analysis
7.     Rural Development. Potential adverse impacts of the activities under the Plan for the
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) include environmental and natural resource degradation due
to intensification of small-holder agriculture; expansion of large-scale agriculture (cash crops);
increased use of agro-chemicals, and development of rural roads to support agricultural
marketing. Such impacts need to be anticipated and managed appropriately. Several agencies are
4


﻿Annex 4
responsible for environmental management in Uganda. Ministry of Water, Lands, and
Environment (MOWLE) and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF)
are responsible for management of sustainable natural resources development. National Bureau
of Standard (NBS), National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), and National
Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS) are responsible for mitigating impacts from agro-
chemicals (including pesticides) through improvement of agricultural technology, research, and
training. The Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) is developing capacity to screen activities
and prepare environmental assessments and management plans for its own projects, including
district roads. The National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) coordinates
intersectoral review of environmental impact assessments for projects that will significantly affect
the environment, and reviews the work of the sectoral environmental units that it is helping to
launch.
8.     Education Sector. Construction of school building and sanitary facilities is not expected
to cause significant adverse impacts. Most impacts are local and can be easily mitigated. The
Government of Uganda mandates that measures of the Public Health Act be applied to
construction of school buildings and other public works. The Bank needs to ensure that the
Government's standard requirement for school construction meet the Bank's requirements and
policies.
9.     Health Sector. Concerns include construction activities as well as overall health care
waste (HCW) management. Environmental risks are associated with hazardous medical waste
materials, including possible infection from HIV/AIDS through used needles and blood waste;
building health clinics and hospitals; construction of water supply and sanitation facilities.' The
Ministry of Health (MOH) has identified the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) to address the
handling, storage and disposal of HCW at all levels of the national health care delivery system.
This includes development of a management strategy, guidance, and human resources
development.2 Such measures address various sanitation and waste issues, including the handling,
storing and disposing hazardous medical wastes.
10.    Water and Sanitation Sector. In the water and sanitation sector, the focus of the PRSC
operation is to promote systematic reforms in the sector in order to ensure sustained access to safe
drinking water and sanitation services and in particular, expand services to those who currently
do not have or cannot afford such services. Under PRSC 1, strategies were implemented to initiate
nation-wide decentralized planning and management system that enhances community
participation in choosing water and sanitation services as well as increases commitment to
operation and maintenance of the service. Through the MOWLE, environmental checklists for
both design and operation of systems have been developed and incorporated into the Planning and
Operational Guidelines for District WSS Conditional Grants. This includes a section covering
environmental screening criteria for subproject appraisal and environmental requirements for
contractors. It is also standard practice in Uganda for EIAs to be conducted for all investments
and development projects (including but not limited to donor-supported projects) using guidelines
developed at the sectoral level by the lead agency involved (MOWLE in this case) and NEMA (in
this and other sectors). These guidelines and the environmental screening checklists were
developed in Uganda to be directly compatible with World Bank environmental standards.
Measures for protection of water sources will also be refined. The reorganized Directorate of
Water Development (DWD) in MOWLE will engage trained staff and experienced consultants to
For purposes of this discussion, health care waste includes pharmaceutical, anatomic, radioactive, infectious,
genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, pressurized containers, sharps, and associated contaminated materials following
WHO. Safe Management of Wastes from Health-Care Activities, 1999.
2 Ministry of Health, Health Sector Strategic Plan, 2000/01-2004/05, August 2000.
5


﻿Annex 4
implement these measures under PRSC4 and carry out annual environmental audits to ensure
compliance by local governments. Expanded stakeholder consultation will also be provided
through further training of staff.
Mitigation Measures
11.    Rural Development-Land Tenure. The process of systematic land demarcation provides
an opportunity for any land tenant/occupant to go through a formalized process of having land
"certified" and then if desired "titled". In general, a land owner can come to agreement on a
settlement where the occupants can purchase the land, with money coming from the Land Fund.
No resettlement cases are expected in the coming year, but as the implementation of systematic
demarcation proceeds further, cases may arise. The Prime Minister's Office will continue the
development of national standards for involuntary resettlement. Like the Bank, the Government
is committed to ensuring that processes of involuntary land acquisition leave those affected no
worse off than they would otherwise have been. The Bank will continue to explore options to
support the intended updating of the background and policy work carried out in 1995. To date,
however, it is noted that the Bank finds that GOU has not made any progress in implementing the
resettlement framework.
12.    Rural Development-Agriculture. Potential adverse impacts associated with the PMA
implementation will be mitigated through the National Agriculture Advisory Services Project
(NAADS) that was approved in January 2001. A number of mitigation practices were identified
in the NAADS EA. A Pest Management Plan was prepared as part of the EA for NAADS, and it
focuses on ensuring sustainable pest management activities, minimizing health and environmental
pesticide risks and strengthened capacity for IPM and pesticide regulatory control.
13.    Health. A health care waste (HCW) management plan was endorsed by the Health Sector
Review in October 2002. The national HCW planning is covered by the sector strategy.
14.    Water Supply and Sanitation. MOWLE has developed environmental screening
checklists for both design and operations, and they are being incorporated into the revised
Planning and Operation Guidelines for District WSS conditional grants. IDA will continue to
review the guidelines and the checklists. The checklists identify any potential environmental,
land tenure, and resettlement impacts of proposed activities, and apply to borehole drilling for
water supply, expanding and improving the existing water supply, latrine, other sanitation
facilities, and wastewater treatment.
Public Disclosure
15.    Consultation and Disclosure. In accordance with the requirements of the revised
disclosure policy, this annex will be disclosed publicly in-country and at the World Bank
Infoshop. Investments made with support of the PRSC will be subject to Government policy,
which likewise requires public consultation and for environmental impact statement (EIS)
documents of projects with potential adverse impacts on the environment.
Institutional Capacity Building
16.    Environmental Issues and Mitigation Measures. NEMA has the mandate to coordinate,
monitor and supervise all environmental activities. The framework for environmental assessment
and regulation is based on the National Environment Statute of 1995. The more recent
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Regulations of 1998 define in detail the EIA process,
6


﻿Annex 4
which requires, as appropriate, environmental impact assessments, environmental impact
statements, and/or environmental audits for all private and public development projects.
Basically, a system of EIA and monitoring that identifies adverse environmental impacts is in
place. On physical cultural property, the Ugandan EIA system includes a stipulation to prevent
destruction of cultural heritages, historic sites, and archaeological resources. NEMA undertakes
the EIA oversight function, but leaves implementation to the relevant line ministries and
departments. In addition, NEMA also develops EIA capacity in sectoral ministries, line-
departments and at the district level through an ongoing investment project financed by IDA.
1 7.   Impact Assessment Institutional Capacity Building. The Government's implementing
agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental management for sectors associated
with PRSC4. The Bank will work with its counterparts in the Government to create a viable
framework in identifying and tracking key issues. Through the IDA-supported Environmental
Management Capacity Building Projects (EMCBP) I and II, IDA has been assisting NEMA to
enhance environment management in lead agencies, districts and communities, in addressing
environmental degradation problems and sustainable resource management.
Monitoring and Supervision
18.    Monitoring and Supervision. A monitoring plan to review the Government's EIA
procedures and other relevant regulatory procedures for sectoral activities in the PRSC3 will be
developed. IDA will undertake regular supervision to assure that the Bank's requirements on
environment assessment and resettlement are being complied with, including appropriate
involvement of specialists.
III. KEY ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES AND MITIGATION
PLANS
19.    Key Environment and Resettlement Issues of PRSC4. There are direct and indirect
environmental and potential resettlement issues primarily linked to reforms under the
PEAP/PRSP Pillar III (Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes) and IV
(Improving the Quality of Life) of PRSC4. While the types of activities in each sector are known,
the specific locations and conditions of activities will only be known as the implementing
agencies execute their budget plans.
Rural Development--Degradation of Environment and Natural Resources
20.    Environmental Degradation. PRSC4 continues to address issues of environmental
degradation by integrating environmental concerns in all government programs, as part of the
well established sector wide programming in health, education and water and sanitation, as well
as in modernization of agriculture (Pillar III). In Uganda, degradation of the environment and
natural resources (ENR) sectors is estimated to range from 4 percent to 12 percent of GDP.4 The
agricultural sector alone is estimated to be responsible for 86 to 91 percent of ENR degradation in
monetary terms. This takes the form of deforestation, loss of natural habitats, loss of top soil,
uncontrolled growth of water hyacinths, pollution of water bodies, illegal logging, and bush land
burning.
NEMA Statute Supplement, section 50, May 19, 1995.
Yakobo Moyini and Eugene T Muramira "The Cost ofEnvironmental Degradation and Loss to Uganda'Economy
with Particular Reference to Poverty Eradication "-Final Draft, IUCN Uganda, July 2001.
7


﻿Annex 4
21.    Environmental Regulations. The National Environmental Statute of 1995 (NEMA
Statute) and regulations passed under this statute are the principal safeguards to curb ENR
degradation in Uganda. The Statute also mandated the National Environmental Management
Authority (NEMA) to coordinate, monitor, and supervise policies/programs on environmental
management. This is done primarily through the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
process. A large-scale agricultural project, such as development of cash crops (coffee, tea, oil
palm, and sugar cane), which will affect the environment, is required to undertake an EIA. The
Statute also promotes conservation in ecologically sensitive areas, such as lakes, wetlands,
forests, and hillside areas. However, for high altitude crops, such as tea and horticultural crops,
farming the hill sides may be unavoidable. For the ecologically sensitive areas, the following
measures are recommended: use of appropriate farming methods, curbing of soil erosion, and
protection of water catchments. The NEMA Statute prohibits activities that will reclaim and
drain the wetlands; and limits other human activities in the wetlands. In the same manner, it also
prohibits activities that will lead to the destruction of forest and hillsides areas'
22.    Soil and Water Conservation. On farms, soil and water conservation is a priority.
Agricultural development in Uganda is constrained by weathered soils whose fertility varies
across districts. There are thirteen districts scattered through the Eastern, Central and Western
regions. The districts with high population density--over 300 persons per sq. km--coincide with
good agricultural potential and high rainfall. Consequently, those are at risk of soil erosion (e.g.,
in the Jinja district and around Lake Victoria). Currently, the traditional farming systems to
restore soil fertility and land productivity do not keep up with the rate of soil degradation and
population pressure on land.'
23.    Mitigation and Management of ENR impacts. Mitigation and management of adverse
impacts on natural resources are mainly the responsibility of NEMA, MOWLE, and MAAIF. The
research and extension advisory services agencies, NARO and NAADS, support those agencies in
managing adverse environmental impacts of agricultural sector through research and training.
IDA, however, needs to ensure that any PRSC4 activities that will involve large scale agricultural
development comply with the Bank's policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Natural
Habitats (OP 4.04), and Forestry (OP 4.36). IDA has funded several capacity building initiatives
in Uganda, including current investment support to NARO and NAADS. The agencies are
expected to play important roles with regard to compliance with environmental, resettlement and
other relevant policies in Uganda.
Rural Development--Use of Agro-chemicals
24.    In 1970, the Pharmacy and Drug Act was enacted in Uganda, but it was not until 1989
that an Agricultural Chemicals Statue came into effect. The manufacture, storage, distribution,
trade, importation and exportation of pesticides in Uganda are now controlled by the Agricultural
Chemicals Statute (ACS) Number 8 of 1989 and by the Statutory Instrument Supplement No. 23
of the ACDS Regulations of 1993. This lead to the creation of the Agricultural Chemicals Board
consisting of 13 members that ensure agricultural chemicals are duly registered in the country and
are used in a manner consistent with the rules made by the state. The Board appoints an
Agricultural Chemicals Technical Committee (ACTC) to advise the Board on such technical
matters and both of these operations fall under the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries (MAAIF).
The Water Statute 1995, The Wetland Policy 1995, National Environment Waste Management Regulations, 1999,
Draft Forestry Act, 200].
NEMA Statute sections 37,38; and 3947.
Plan for Modernization ofAgriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda. MAAIF Report, 2000.
8


﻿Annex 4
25.    Importation and distribution of pesticides and other agricultural inputs used to be
conducted by Government and its parastatals, but recent privatization initiatives, have seen GOU
remove itself from this role including removal of subsidies for these products. Aligned with this
process was the removal of import taxes on agricultural chemicals, which is thought to have
increased the availability of pesticides to producers. USAID reports suggest that the number of
pesticide shops and dealers in the country has remained constant or increased since this change,
suggesting that consumption of pesticides is substantial or growing. This is hard to quantify and
other informed sources regularly indicate that there is relatively low use of pesticides throughout
the country by small subsistent farmers.
26.    The overall pesticide use in agriculture was estimated at 17 kilograms per hectare of
cropland in 1996' (ranking Uganda as No 40 in Africa). The pesticides import in 2002 amounted
to USD 7.8 million, and export to USD 69,0009. Most of the pesticides sold in Uganda are
imported from Kenya and may carry a label approved by the Pest Control Products Board of that
country. The total pesticide market value is estimated at USD 10 million0.
27.    The National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) for Uganda described low or declining
soil fertility in many farming systems of the country. Pesticides were not mentioned as a problem.
However, the country's crop diversification policy, especially the encouragement of high value
export crops, is considered likely to contribute to greater use of agrochemicals (fertilisers and
pesticides). The NEAP conclusion was that when combined with chemicals used in livestock
industry and pesticides used to protect humans (e.g. tsetse fly control), the total quantity of
residual chemicals entering the environment is significant.
28.    Registration of agricultural chemicals, dealers, fumigators and premises is provided
annually in the Uganda Gazette, including trade name, common name and firm, and/or propriety.
Although there are good regulations in place, enforcement is variable. Unregistered pesticides are
still being sold without ACB registration, such as malathion, diazinon, Rogor, and sulfur. There
are cases of pesticides being repackaged and sold in smaller amounts without proper labels.
Although the regulation requires sales of pesticides to be in separate buildings, it is rare to find
this followed. Lack of staff hinder enforcement, only one person handles registration applications
and inspection of pesticide premises for the whole country. The Public Service Commission has
still not approved the request for additional staff and district agricultural officers are being asked
to undertake some of these roles.
29.    Other constraints include:
* Inadequate monitoring, enforcement and policing mechanisms
* Lack of residue and analytical capacity for purity of active ingredients, residue on foods
and toxicological acceptability
* Lack of registration of pesticides for specific use on specific crops
* Lack of adequate public information on registered pesticides and
* Limited number of registered pesticides
30.    Pesticide Management. Measures to mitigate potential adverse impacts of pesticide use
will be taken through the ongoing National Agriculture Advisory Services Project (NAADS) that
8 Africa: Environment: Pesticide use, www.nationmaster.com/graph-T/envpes_use/AFR
9Source: FAOSTAT Database
'Steven Matovu, personal communication
9


﻿Annex 4
was approved in January 2001. The goal of NAADS is to increase security of rural livelihoods
with sustainable improvements in agricultural productivity and household incomes through
increasing commercialization of farming. The project aims to transform the existing public
extension service to a decentralized, largely farmer-owned and private sector advisory service. As
of early 2003, NAADS was operational in 16 Districts, with the process of expanding its
programs to more districts slower than originally intended. There is an expectation that the good
practice in crop production will eventually expand to most of the country. As a category B
project, its EA was prepared in July 2000, and a Pest Management Plan in September 2000.
31.    Although agro-chemical use is relatively low in the country, NAADS is facilitating
intensification of smallholder agricultural production systems, potentially increasing the use of
fertilizers and other agrochemicals. Mitigation practices identified in the NAADS EA include:
* Training of input suppliers in precautionary measures required for the handling, labeling
and application of agrochemicals under field conditions. These measures will include
advise on pesticide stock management procedures and record keeping practices; pesticide
storage, use of protective equipment; use and cleaning of application equipment; and
emergency plans in response to spillage and/or contamination.
* Training of farmers and service providers in use and handling of agrochemicals.
* Promotion of reduced input production systems and avoidance of the use of pesticides
whenever practicable by using alternative pest management methods, including best mix
of biological or cultural controls.
32.    The NAADS Executive is responsible for environmental monitoring and evaluation by
specifying in the contracts the obligations and environmental mitigation measures to be taken by
the contractor. Each contractor will be responsible for ensuring that monitoring and record
keeping conform with environmental obligations by presenting written records for inspection to
the NAADS Executive and/or designated alternatives at local government level.
33.    Pest Management Plan. The Pest Management Plan prepared for NAADS focuses on
ensuring sustainable pest management activities, minimizing health and environmental pesticide
risks and strengthened capacity for Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and pesticide regulatory
control. The plan summarizes the current status of pesticide use in the country, pest management
approaches for specific crops (i.e., cotton, vegetables, bananas), IPM experiences, and farmer
training in IPM. It indicates that information on the use of pesticides is limited, farmer
application of pesticides might lack proper dosage, mixing procedures are varied and observation
of safety requirements questionable. However, the National Union of Plantation and Agricultural
Workers has since then initiated training activities on safe handling of pesticides.
34.    Pesticide registration came into effect in 1994 and to date 233 chemicals have been
registered following FAO Code of Conduct and PIC mechanisms are observed. Traders are
registered and licensed while large-scale importers must acquire a certification for handling and
transport and their personnel undergo training for safe pesticide handling. In addition, these
importers must have their facilities meet certain specifications and general safety requirements.
Commercial operators have to be certified to ensure safe chemical use.
35.    Statistics concerning pesticide poisoning are not available, the capacity for analysis of
insitu residues is limited, and there is no systematic monitoring for residue levels. The capacity
to monitor pesticide use and storage and enforcement of regulations is also limited. Research on
IPM is on going as part of the strategy in the agriculture sector to enhance farmer productivity. In
10


﻿Annex 4
general, there is farmer awareness on holistic management that addresses soil and water
management as well as IPM. This consists of farmer pilot training and extension capacity
building in crop ecology.
36.     The plan identifies the following mitigative measures:
*   Crop management training for service providers and farmers including integrated
approaches to soil, water, plant and nutritional management and IPM;
*   Improving IPM skills for service providers;
*   Ensuring that service providers with experience in integrated production and pest
management at the district level is expanded;
*   Observing IPM approaches if pesticides are used as part of demonstration activities;
and
*   Ensuring that pesticides use is in compliance with existing laws and regulations,
particularly MRLs for commercial export crops.
37.     Also, the plan recommends the following monitoring and evaluation measures to be taken
through NAADS:
*   Training activities on integrated management for service providers and farmers;
*   The knowledge and skills acquired by farmers;
*   Compliance on pesticide use; and
*   Pest management approaches by service providers and farmers.
38.     NAADS Policy and Strategy. The NAADS draft (October 2002) policy and strategy
framework for natural resources cover a wide array of issues and challenges, including
agrochemical use and EIAs. Key challenges are listed in Table 2 below.
Table 2. Key Natural Resource Management Challenges for NAADS
Issue                       Key Challenges for NAADS
Agrochemical Use            *   Promoting appropriate use of agrochemicals as part of integrated farm
management
*   Quality assuring private service provider advice on agrochemicals (e.g.
regulations, appropriate use, health and safety, etc.)
*   Promoting alternatives to high agrochemical use
Environmental Impact        *   Clarification of what agricultural activities require EISs
Assessments (EIAs)          *   Updating EIA/SIA of NAADS
*   Training and information provision on EIA issues for service providers
Sustainable Agriculture     *   Capitalizing on current practices of sustainable agriculture and low
agrochemical use
39.     Specific actions that are identified under advisory and information services dealing with
pesticides include:
* Service provider contracts: clauses in contracts which require adherence to NAADS
principles and guidelines on what natural resources-specific clauses should be included in
particular contracts (e.g., on use of agrochemicals, requirements for EIAs, environmental
impacts of certain enterprises, e.g., floriculture).
11


﻿Annex 4
* Production of guidelines and criteria: production of environmental guidelines, checklists
etc. for service providers, ensuring that guidelines highlight the need to include natural
resources-related issues and requirements, guidelines and checklists for including natural
resource issues in planning and outputs.
40.    The PRSC Team, in collaboration with NAADS, undertook a more detailed analysis of
pesticide use in the country and provided the following recommendations:
*  Introduction of more stringent restrictions in availability of pesticides to farmers and the
general public based on the end users' level of awareness and training
*  Revision of current labeling requirements for pesticide products to sensitise illiterate people
of hazards and concurrent need for personal protection
*  Establishment of a national clearing-house for integrated pest management to avoid
duplication of work and to better identify and fill gaps in IPM research, education and
training
*  Inclusion of requirements for IPM and judicious use of pesticides in NAADS contract
specifications for advisory service providers and input suppliers
*  Retraining of de-layered extension staff in "Facilitator Field Schools"
*  Official recognition of organic farming as a viable option for improved livelihoods, and
concurrent need for improved infrastructure
*   Strengthening of national pesticide control and enforcement functions through establishment
of a 'National Pesticide Control Authority' (copied on the National Drug Authority)
* Establishment of a system-wide approach for judicious use of pesticides.
These recommendations have been discussed with the NAADS program and are in the process of
refinement for added focus in the near future.
41.    PMA Sub-Committee on Natural Resources. A PMA sub-committee on natural resource
management has been established to ensure that the vision for environmental sustainability as
outlined in the PMA is achieved. This group consists of members of all agencies and
organizations dealing with PMA issues related to natural resources in a broad sense and has a
terms of reference to report on the progress of each of its organizations in meeting the goals of the
PMA. The committee has recently issued a proposal to monitor and review sustainable natural
resource use and management in the PMA in over a dozen thematic areas. Under the PMA, focus
is on environmental issues that fall under research related to the environment-integrated pest
management and pesticide use-with NARO, Makerere University, NEMA and UNBS as lead
agencies.
42.    PMA   Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. The overall PMA monitoring and
evaluation framework is designed to monitor inputs, outputs, and outcomes through performance,
beneficiary, and impact assessment of the seven PMA components. The current framework does
not include indicators on pesticide use nor management, but includes an output indicator focusing
on  environmental guidelines for sectoral plans and programs that is related to pesticides.
However, a set of environmental indicators related to integrated natural resource management and
agrochemical use has been further developed by environment and safeguard specialists, and the
plan is to integrate these into the overall PMA M&E framework. The indicators are designed to
provide qualitative information to verify World Bank pesticide safeguards are adhered to and will
also link to the NAADS supervision activities.
12


﻿Annex 4
43.    World Bank Supervision. The NAADS project is still in its early stages of implementation
and the World Bank Task Manager has reiterated her intention to ensure that the pesticide issues
as identified in the NAADS EA and PMP will be supervised. This will take the form of using
pesticide specialists to verify, in the field, that proper measures are being undertaken and review
the chemical registration process. During PRSC4 the Bank will also explore mechanisms to
introduce specific analytical work covering the pesticides theme as part of the PRSC/NAADS
nexus.
Rural Development--Land Tenure
44.    The Land Act passed in 1998 provides for regularizing land tenure under mailo, freehold
and customary tenure regimes. The Land Sector Strategic Plan prioritizes implementation of the
Act, and forms the basis for the National Land Policy, capacity building for land administration,
and implementation of three pilots on land consolidation and land readjustment in Soroti,
Masaka, and Ntungamo. Pilots will provide an opportunity for any land tenant/occupant to go
through a formalized process of having land "certified" and then if desired "titled". In general, a
land owner (who may or may not have a title-the land registry has degraded over the past 20
years) can come to agreement on a settlement where the occupants can purchase the land.
Discussions have continued for the past year on mechanisms for the Land Fund to provide some
of these financial resources to assist in land purchase, but the details are still to be worked out.
45.    Under the Land Policy, two kinds of land adjudication processes may be undertaken. The
first is a process that addresses poverty by moving toward security of tenure under modem
mechanisms that will allow land to be used as security for land improvement finance and other
purposes. It is based on a process for individuals to address matters pertaining to land occupancy
and ownership that is being gradually established at the district levels. No resettlement is
expected in the pilot areas, since occupants and tenants will acquire certificates through the
demarcation and adjudication process. If people have occupied land for an extended period, they
will not be required to move.
46.    Another process the Land Commission may choose to implement is sorting out historic
claims of major land areas disputed by various ethnic groups, which may also include lands
administered by districts with residents belonging, by affiliation, to a chief or king. For example,
in Kibale district, the Land Commission is currently sorting out land occupancy between several
ethnic/tribal groups, and the Land Fund is being used to provide payments for demarcation and
settlement of tenants and occupants. Some resettlement may at later point take place in this
region since some people, if inappropriately occupying land, could be required to leave after
adjudication. The Bank will continue its dialogue with appropriate authorities to encourage the
use of the Land Fund for settling land tenure issues other than historic ethnic claims.
47.    A National Policy on Resettlement was drafted in 1995 and its implementation rests with
the Prime Minister's office. The Bank currently has no project in the land sector addressing these
matters, but the GOU has recently asked the Bank to engage in discussions and technical
assistance with the resettlement policy again. The Bank intends to continue its discussions with
these authorities to move the Resettlement Policy forward and will use the PRSC4 to undertake
additional analytical and policy work. The Bank has communicated to the Ministry and Land
Commission that if individuals are required to move off currently occupied lands or resettle as
part of the LSSP process, appropriate Resettlement Action Plans or Frameworks will have to be
completed.
13


﻿Annex 4
Rural Development--District Road Work
48.    District and Rural Roads. Agricultural marketing in Uganda is constrained by the poor
quality of the road network. More than 90 percent of Uganda's road network consists of earth
and gravel roads and 25 percent of the rural roads in the districts are impassable during the rainy
season.l I During PRSC4, a program of district and community roads will be begun. This
program will run parallel to and be guided by the principles of outsourcing and the environmental
regulatory frameworks in the long-term Roads Program (APLs 1-4) currently under
implementation in Uganda. In parallel with this national program, the Ministry of Works,
Housing and Communication (MOWHC) has initiated a sectoral Environmental Liaison Unit in
charge of promoting, developing, and disseminating guidance in environmental issues, and the
training of transport staff in particular. This work is consistent with the national mandate that
lead agencies should build up their own environmental regulatory capabilities, to carry out the
work in environment that they need to do in liaison with NEMA. In any case, the vast majority of
the work to be carried out in the PRSC will involve stabilizing and reconstruction of existing
minor roads at the community and district level, with no changes of alignments, widening, or hard
surfacing. Thus, no environmental or land acquisition issues will arise, except for minor drainage
and maintenance works. Appropriate environmental measures are already built in to the district
roads crews standard operating procedures.
Education--School Building Construction
49.    School Building Construction. No significant environmental impact is expected from
school construction. Minor impacts are associated with physical activities such as construction of
class room, dormitories, latrine and other facilities. The activities are regulated by the
Government in the Public Health Act (sections 72 and 73). Standard requirements for classroom
construction include approved lists of materials, location of latrines with washing facilities and
safe drinking water. The Bank needs to ensure that the Government's standard requirement for
school construction meets the Bank's requirement and policies.
Health--Disposal of Health Care Waste in Health Units, Health Centers and Hospitals
50.    Health Care Waste. Uganda is committed in its policies to ensure that no harm comes to
people from the management of health care wastes (HCW) or from gaps in sanitary facilities at
health care institutions. To date, it is difficult to assess the general status of sanitation and
medical waste at health facilities in Uganda because of limited data. Generally there is a need for
significant improvement in both areas. The following are the Ugandan problems in health care
wastes:
*   Pharmaceutical waste includes drugs and chemicals that are outdated, contaminated,
spilled or no longer required.
*  Radioactive waste includes solids, liquids and gaseous radio nuclides generated from
in vitro analysis of body tissues and fluids, in vivo body imaging and tumor
localization and therapeutic procedures.
*  Anatomic or pathological waste consists of human and animal tissues, organs, body
parts, fetuses, blood and body fluids.
*   Sharps comprise needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, broken glass and other puncture
inducing items.
H Plan for Modernization of Agriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda. MAAIF Report, 2000.
14


﻿Annex 4
*   Infectious waste that can transmit infectious disease with pathogen concentrations and
quantities of that are of concern for exposure originate in laboratories, infectious
patient wastes, surgery and autopsies.
*   Other waste of concern include genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, and pressurized
containers.
*   Communal/domestic type material such as packaging, paper and plastic products and
other organic material.
51.    Health Care Waste Strategy. Strategy for health care waste management was drafted
through dialogue with the appropriate decision-making and national authorities-12 The national
HCW planning process led by a task force that includes representatives from all the relevant
ministries. The proposed national HCW policy and strategy includes:
*   Strategy for proper HCW management and disposal.
*   Prevention and reduction of waste generation.
*   Means of monitoring of infection control and environmental protection.
* Use of appropriate technology for packaging, transportation, treatment, and disposal.
* Central or decentralized treatment and disposal.
* Distribution of responsibility in the sector between national and local governments.
* Recommendations on private sector involvement.
* Investment plan for implementation of improved HCW management.
* Mechanisms for financing health care waste management.
* HCW management training programs at facility and municipal/district level.
52.    Health Care Waste Management by Type of Facility. Specific HCW     management
considerations related to the key health care facilities in Uganda are outlined in Table 3.
Draft Policy and Strategy on Sanitation and Healthcare Waste Disposal at Health Facilities, September 2001.
15


﻿Annex 4
Table 3: Considerations for Health Care Waste Management at Small and Large
Health Care Facilities
Small facilities                                 Large facilities
Raise awareness at the management level.        Raise awareness.
Develop an integrated HCW management plan.      Ensure special HCW is segregated from other waste.
Ensure segregation of special HCW from other    Determine appropriate treatment technology.
waste.                                          Consider facility-based vs. centralized waste
Determine appropriate treatment and disposal    treatment and disposal options.
site for facility.                              Ensure proper packaging and storage of special health
Train health care workers in proper HCW         care waste.
Ensure safe transport of special HCW.
Develop a HCW management plan for facility.
Train health care workers in HCW management
procedures.
Address scavenging issues.
Water Supply and Sanitation
53.     Water Sector Standards and Guidelines. Currently, all water supply and wastewater
projects will have to meet existing national environmental standards and water sector
guidelines. 13 In addition, all larger village and urban potable water supply and distribution
systems and wastewater proposals (covering population clusters of above 5,000 people) submitted
to the DWD will undergo a prescribed EIA process that includes the following information:
*   Description of the project and identification of all phases;
* Description of the proposed site and reasons for rejecting alternative sites;
* Environmental effects of the project, including direct, indirect, cumulative short-term and
long-term effects and possible alternatives;
*   Measures proposed for eliminating, minimizing or mitigating adverse impacts; and
* A monitoring and evaluation program.
54.     Water Supply Regulations. Regulations concerning water supply fall under the Water
Resources Regulations of 1998. They specify particular requirements for (i) any water extraction
by motorized water pump that temporarily or permanently pumps water from a borehole or
waterway and (ii) weir, darn, tank, or other work capable of diverting or impounding an inflow of
more than 400 cubic meters in any 24-hour period. Furthermore, both drilling and construction
permit requirements include submission of standard application forms. Since DWD is the
delegated NEMA agency, all EIA and technical requirements are managed by DWD, specifically
in the Water Resources Division. Based on these standards, guidelines and current practices, the
EIA process in the sector is characterized by the features highlighted in Table 4.
Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, Water Supply Design Manual, 2000; RUWASA, Environmental
Guidelines and Code of Conduct; RUWASA, Guidelines for Assessing the Risk to Groundwater from On-site
Sanitation, RUWASA, Shallow Wells Information Booklet, 1999; Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project,
Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Pit Latrine Systems, 2000; Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation
Project, Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Human Excreta Disposal, 2000; RUWASA, Socio
Technical Manual for Siting, 2000; Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation
Transformation, 2000.
16


﻿Annex 4.
Table 4: Key Elements of the EIA Process for Water and Sanitation Projects-Design and
Construction
Objective                                   Responsible Party
*   Ensure that environmental issues are    District WSS Units
considered as part of design.           DWD Water Resources Division and Technical
*   Ensure that environmental impacts are   Support Units
reduced or minimized at site.           Commissioned Consultants and Contractors
* Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders
R                                                ncions
"   Review the current environmental condition at  Veriication
the site.                                Subproject appraisal by District WSS Units
"   Assess the potential environmental impact  Environmental Impact Statement for large projects
associated with the proposed scheme.    Independent Environmental audit within a period
C Identify mitigation measures in construction  of 12 months after completion of project
and operation.                          DWD inspections
55.    Protection of Water Sources, Drinking Water Standards and Sanitary Conditions. There
are several types of small-scale rural water supply schemes in the country: shallow wells,
boreholes, protected natural spring water points and borehole pump and distribution systems.
Most of the environmental considerations for water supply schemes involve avoiding water
containation. Measures are considered to ensure initially good water quality. During operation
of the system, measures are taken to prevent contamination from agricultural activities, grazing
animals, and human contamination. Borehole construction in alluvial areas with intense sugar
cane production is of potential concern because of concentrated pesticide treatments. Testing of
the water supply should be performed regularly to detect any contamination to the system, and
this should be done in conjunction with periodic chlorine treatment under certain circumstances.
Also, proper training of technicians is critical to ensure that adequate maintenance occurs for both
the single source and network water systems. The MOWLE has developed environmental
screening checklists for both design and operations which has been incorporated into the revised
Planning and Operation Guidelines for District WSS Conditional grants. IDA has reviewed the
guidelines and the checklists for compatibility with OP 4.01 during Appraisal of PRSC4. These
checklists identify any potential environmental, land tenure, and resettlement impacts of proposed
activities. These checklists apply to borehole drilling for water supply, expanding and improving
the existing water supply, latrine, other sanitation facilities, and wastewater treatment. The
efforts of the DWD in "mainstreaming" these guidelines is still behind schedule. The Bank PRSC
and water sector staff will continue to work with these counterparts to expand utility of these
Sustainable development tools.
56.     Water Distribution. The PRSC will be used mainly to extend focus on rural water supply
for the poor.  DWD and other water delivery programs incorporate standard water quality
analysis to assess potential point water sources. Post-construction water quality monitoring is
also Undertaken. Data collection and reporting procedures are regularly undertaken, yet such data
is not filly utilized. For example, monthly water quality reports for one district showed high
levels of nitrates among numerous spring point sources, yet no one had determined possible
causes. Improved data analysis at the regional and national level as the delivery of potable water
is expanded will become more important to identify potential environmental and human health
concerns. Other issues including access to drinking water and sanitation services as well as
resettlelent requirements for the larger construction schemes will be summarized in a standard
report summary.
17


﻿Annex 4
Public Disclosure
57.    Disclosure. PRSC4 has been categorized as a B (without a separate EA) under OP 4.01.
The requirements of the Bank's revised disclosure policy for Category B projects apply for those
appraised after January 1, 2002. The Bank's policy also requires public consultations and
disclosure for activities with potential adverse impacts on the environment in sectors supported
by PRSC that will occur in the future. The requirements include discussions of the project's
potential environmental impact with the project affected groups and local NGOs, and take their
views into account. 14 Similarly, the Government mandates public consultation, stakeholders
involvement, and information disclosure of project with potential adverse impacts on the
environment through the EIA process. Public consultation with local NGOs and affected people
has been the normal pattern within Bank assisted-projects in Uganda, and non-Bank projects
under NEMA-led EIA procedures, for several years. Some stakeholders feel that the consultation
could be improved by a better selection of NGOs, and by following through more proactively on
stakeholder feedback during project implementation.15
58.    Outreach in Water and Sanitation Programs. Poor communities may have little
opportunity to learn about programs designed to help them. In the case of a water and sanitation
project, DWD uses mobilizers, staff trained in social work, to undertake community out-reach
programs and conduct community consultations. These staff also engage in sanitation and health
promotional programs. It is common practice now for DWD to assist in organizing water
committees that identify the type of water system they want and are willing to pay for and
procedures for operating and maintaining the water supply facilities. In numerous cases, access
to water is controlled at public standpipes by an approved operator who is entitled to charge for
water and is also responsible for paying monthly-metered water bills. Restricting hours of
operation, reduction in the number of faucets and social conflicts regularly occur. Practical
mechanisms to quickly identify such problems and engage in conflict resolution are required to
ensure that water is available.
59.    Local Level Consultation. The purposes of public consultation include both the spread of
information and the incorporation of local knowledge and perspectives into development projects.
Supported by donor advice and resources, for example, the Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable
Forest Conservation Trust (MBIFCT) was formed to conserve the Mgahinga and Bwindi forests
through a consultative and participatory approaches driven by the local communities. Donors
alone do not drive participatory development. In Uganda, the degree of openness and
inclusiveness in the local political process helps condition the support for consultations and
participation. Ugandan local level councils have been very vocal for at least a decade, and so
there is an inbuilt mechanism for projects to get and incorporate local feedback. As district
government becomes a better-performing, more powerful process at a level just above the
community, some observers see the potential for weakening the individual community inputs into
governance. District government will have to find a way to continue the sense of participatory
"ownership" by communities as more resource decisions are made at the district level.
IV.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR IMPACT ASSESSMENT
60. NEMA 's Mandate. In Uganda, NEMA has the mandate to co-ordinate, monitor and
supervise all environmental activities. NEMA leads an oversight function on EIA but leaves its
implementation to the relevant line ministries and departments. In practice, NEMA is the focal
1OP 4.01. para 15.
Conversation with Mr. Kivoumbi ofNGO Environmental Alert in Kampala, October 2001.
18


﻿Annex 4
institution and the EIA has become a primary tool for safeguarding the environment from the
adverse impacts of development activities in Uganda. To further the effort, NEMA has
developed EIA guidelines (including public hearing guidelines), code of conduct for EIA
practitioners, regulations for appointing inspectors, and environmental easements. From January
1996 to September 2001, a total of 286 projects were subjected to EIA; 314 projects received
certificates; 9 environmental audits were conducted; 15 projects were stopped. Supported by
IDA-funding through the EMCBP credits, NEMA also builds EIA capacity in sectoral ministries,
departments, and at the district levels. NEMA also assists districts to establish and strengthen the
statutory management institutions and ensure adequate community inputs into district
environmental planning and management. Since 1996, 41 out of 56 districts have recruited
District Environment Officers (DEOs). In addition, NEMA has helped to recruit 54 environment
inspectors. To enhance NEMA capacity, the Bank approved the Second Environmental
Management and Capacity Building Project (EMCBP-II) in February 2001.
61. NEMA 's Capacity in Relation to PRSC4. Currently, NEMA is, and has been, largely
donor-funded. This is a risky situation that creates uncertainty about the sustainability of its
programs. At the district level, similarly, resources and funding to recruit personnel and to make
the DEOs operational are inadequate. This lack of capacity undermines full integration of
environmental concerns at local government and community levels. Several ways to improve
environmental management could be mainstreamed within the framework of PRSC4: (i)
improving the effectiveness of the institutional arrangements to address environmental concerns
across government programs; (ii) integrating environmental risks and opportunities into districts
and municipal government development plans, and taking steps to implement the management
plans; (iii) implementing sectoral environmental policies (such as pest management, agricultural
chemicals, medical waste, forest conservation, etc.); and (iv) ensuring that funding for NEMA is
reflected more in the government budget. At the district and community levels, planning and
decision-making require the appropriate measures to conserve water, soil, and forests, to keep the
human environment healthy; and to ensure that more intensive development in rural and urban
areas does not introduce unmanaged dangers of environmental degradation, displacement, or
tenure conflict. Key to supporting these efforts is continually improving human resources in
environmental management through institutional capacity building and training. NEMA, under
IDA-assisted project, has been building capacity within the sectoral ministries/lead agencies.
V.     MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
62.    Environmental and Land Acquisition/Resettlement Monitoring Plan. Monitoring plans
are needed to ensure that adverse environmental impacts are addressed and any land acquisition
and resettlement are adequately implemented and sustained in each of the key sectors which the
PRSC will support. The NEMA statute indicates that "the lead agencies should monitor
compliance and implementation of activities to ensure that the design criteria, mitigation
measures, and monitoring plans are implemented, the monitoring plan should also identify the
key indicators of environmental impacts." A simple and practical array of potential monitoring
indicators is provided below in Table 4.
63.    Relationship of Monitoring Plan to PRSC4 Monitoring. The monitoring plan for
environment and land acquisition/resettlement will be incorporated into the overall PRSC4
monitoring plan described in the Credit documentation and overseen by the Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED). Consequently, MOFPED will be the ultimate
information focal point. The relevant sector will be responsible for submitting appropriate
information as described below to the PRSC Steering Committee and PRSC Technical
Committee. The PRSC Steering Committee will provide a report to IDA on the issues addressed
19


﻿Annex 4
in this Annex on an annual basis. This report will be expanded as additional sectors are added to
the subsequent annual Credits.
64.    PRSC Preparation and Appraisal. In preparing subsequent PRSCs, IDA continues to
include participation of environmental and resettlement specialists. These specialists review
progress in implementing the Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP). The specialists coordinate
with other IDA staff in the relevant sectors to ensure that appropriate environmental assessment,
resettlement, and other relevant policy issues are addressed and any consequent management
plans are being implemented. Where additional capacity building is needed, the PRSC team will
work with the selected sector agencies to develop such initiatives. The missions will review the
performance of sectoral procedures and progress in increasing awareness of and appropriate
measures for environmental and other concerns as detailed in this analysis.
20


﻿Annex 4
Table 5. Indicative Monitoring Plan By Sector
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring               Responsibility          Collection Process
Indicators                                       and Frequency
Agriculture/Rural
Development Sector:
Natural Resource          ElAs are prepared by      NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,       Annual records/survey
Degradation in Large-     investors and reviewed (by  NARO, PMA Steering
Scale Agricultural Projects  NEMA); management plan  Committee, and districts.
is integrated into project  Districts are responsible for
implementation           implementing programs
and projects. Activities like
Restriction on the use of  training for service
ecologically sensitive    providers, waste
areas, forest, wetlands, etc.  management, etc., have to
take place in the districts
Soil conservation in      Improved soil and water
Smallholder Agriculture   conservation; judicious
application of agricultural
inputs
Increasing Quantities of  PMP is designed, ensure   NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,       Annual records/survey
Agro-Chemicals used by    that pesticides are used in  NARO, PMA Steering
Agricultural Activities   accordance with IPM       Committee, districts (see
principles                above discussion on the
districts), and NBS.
Training for service      Capacity building for
providers, farmers, and   community and farmer
stockmen to understand    level monitoring
potential risks and hazards
of pesticides on health and
environment
Agro-chemicals used by    MRL (Maximum Residue
Small Holder Agriculture  Level) is observed
particularly for commercial
crops
Training for appropriate
storage, handling, and
application of
agrochenical s
Waste and effluent from   Waste management and
Agro Processing           environmental audit for   In addition to the above
selected agro processing  authorities: selected private
facilities                sectors
Resettlement              Reports of any resettlement  Land Commission
actions based on Land
Tribunals or Land Fund
expenditures
District Roads:           Policy and implementation  MOWHC and Districts       Annual Review
arrangements, including
related environmental
guidelines, for road
construction and
maintenance works
developed and adopted
21


﻿Annex 4
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring              Responsibility          Collection Process
Indicators............I                         and Frequency
Improvement of
institutional capacity for
transportation and
environmental
management, including
training for staff and
contractors.
Health Sector: Health     EIA or Environmental     MOH, Environmental
Care Waste                Review for construction of  Health Division, NEMA
new facilities            (for review of EIAs),
district health inspectors
Environmental
guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
HCW facilities
Awareness training
incorporated into health
care professional and
technical curriculum
Waste Supply and          EIA or Environmental     DWD Water Resources       Annual Review/Survey
Sanitation Sector         Review for urban large   Division and Technical
(wastewater treatment,    scale construction of new  Support Units at district
sanitation facilities,    facilities                level, other WSS
Authorities, NEMA (for
Environmental            review of EIAs)
distribution)             guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
WSS facilities
Awareness training
incorporated for WSS
professionals
22


﻿Cover Memo - Disclosure of Environmental and Social Operational Documents to
InfoShop
Date: 03/09/2004                     Project ID: P074082
Country: Uganda                      Region: AFR
Project Title: Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Task Team Leader: Paud Murphy         Ext. & MSN #: x36450; MSNJ10-1000
Appraisal mission date:               03/15/2004
Report Type:                                               Environmental
Report
Report Name:                                               EA
EA Category:                                               B
Funding Source:                                           IDA
Report Status:                                             Final
Previous Submission Date:
Number of volumes submitted:
If multiple, list titles:
(For InfoShop use only*)
Date received:
Staff Name & Signature:
Report number assigned:
The InfoShop will forward a completed copy of this cover memo to
the task team leader or designated staff listed above
Send 2 copies of each stapled document along with 2 copies of
this cover memo to: The InfoShop, attention: Tonya Ceesay,
MSN JB 1-102 or drop them off in person at the InfoShop
between 9am - 5pm. The InfoShop will NOT accept documents
that are not properly stapled.
For further assistance, please contact the Infoshop Hotline
(x84500) or the Safeguards Helpdesk (x32001)
(Revised Form - December 2003)


