Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB209 
Project Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit 4 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (20%);General water, 
sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);Health (20%);General 
education sector (20%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry 
sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P074082 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of  Finance, Planning and Economic Development 
Address:  Treasury Building, P.O. Box 8147, Kampala, Uganda 
Tel:  256-42-234433;  Fax: 256-41-231163.  
Email: mcmud@africaonline.co.ug, 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 11, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 15, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
July 15, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) spells out Government’s strategy for economic 
growth and poverty reduction.  A summary of the PEAP was used as a basis for Uganda’s PRSP, which  
was presented to the World Bank and IMF Boards in 2000.  The second revision of the PEAP was 
finalized (May 2004), and the process of adjusting the PRSC to respond to the new PEAP was completed.  
 
The first PEAP was produced in 1997 through broad consultative processes involving all relevant 
stakeholders.  Subsequently, in 2000, the original PEAP was revised in line with government’s 
commitment to revise the plan every three years. In the interim years when the PEAP is not revised, 
government prepares an annual PEAP/PRSP progress report that documents progress in PEAP 
implementation.  Thus the PRSP progress report is one of the key government instruments to monitor 
implementation, analyze trends, and highlight problems and challenges. The first PRSP progress report 
was presented to the Bank’s Board jointly with PRSC1 in May 2001.  
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of the PRSCs is to support the implementation of Uganda’s PEAP/PRSP, in 
particular the objectives of (i) improving basic service delivery; and (ii) supporting rural development.  
PRSCs 1,2 and 3 each established a rolling three-year reform program with performance benchmarks, 
policy measures, and outcome targets.  
 
The proposed PRSC4 will help the Government to operationalize and implement the PEAP.  The 
PRSC process  is an important contributor in assisting Government with this.  The benefits are 
widespread and are best presented as the results the PRSC is aiming at achieving. Broadly, the PRSC will: 
promote macroeconomic stability and improved budget process; strengthen the institutional infrastructure, 
regulatory frameworks, and remove bottlenecks;  improve delivery of public services and thereby 
improve the quality of life in Uganda. 
Page  2
 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
This Program presents a fourth single-tranche Poverty Reduction Support Credit  (PRSC4) to the 
Republic of Uganda in the amount of SDR xxx million (US$150 million equivalent).  The proposed 
grant/credit is a core operation to implement the objectives of Uganda’s PEAP/PRSP and it builds on the 
preceding three PRSCs (PRSC1-3) that were approved by the Board in May 2001, July 2002, and 
September 2003, respectively.  As spelled out in the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance Strategy 
(CAS), [also being presented to the Board jointly with this PRSC,]  the proposed grant/credit, as part of 
the series of PRSCs, is the Bank’s principal instrument to assist the Government in implementing 
PEAP/PRSP. 
 
Impact on education, health, and water and sanitation
:  PRSC aims to improve public service 
delivery, in particular the access to and quality of basic services—education, health, and water and 
sanitation.  PRSC is the Bank’s key instrument to support the Government’s reforms in these sectors.  All 
Bank’s assistance to education, health and water and sanitation sectors is currently channeled through 
PRSC, while there is a freestanding cross-sectoral project to combat HIV/AIDS.  The PRSC reform 
program supports the overall development of these sectors, and will help the Government to achieve 
significant results in these areas.       
 
Several other development partners have increased the share of budget support in their assistance 
in the past couple of years, and are providing parallel financing for implementation of the PRSC reform 
program in the form of grants.  By aligning development partners’ support, the program has become a key 
mechanism to support PEAP/PRSP implementation, and has allowed the Government to scale up it 
efforts, thereby enhancing prospects for achieving selected MDGs.   
 
Timing of IDA Grant delivery: 
 To have a positive effect on debt sustainability, IDA 
grants/credits need to be provided in at a pace and level consistent with program reforms.  For Uganda, 
PRSC is the preferred operation to deliver the grant component since PRSCs are delivered annually and 
linked with the Government’s budget cycle; and PRSCs are disbursed in a single-tranche.  This will 
improve the Government’s ability to influence the delivery of the grant component, and help the 
Government’s debt management.  As discussed earlier in the document, the grant component, if delivered 
as planned, will significantly improve Uganda’s debt sustainability projections.   
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed grant/credit is the fourth sequential annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
(PRSC4), a medium-term program that would support the implementation of Uganda’s Poverty 
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) as summarized in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).  The 
PRSC aims to (i) improve basic service delivery; and (ii) support rural development.  It operationalizes 
long-term PEAP desired outcomes by identifying medium-term outputs, and the policy actions required to 
reach these outputs.  PRSC4 continues the reform program initiated under previous PRSCs, and has 
deepened the focus on gender, infant and maternal mortality and results orientation.  Currently, PRSC4 is 
the only Bank instrument to support reforms in education, health and water and sanitation. 
 
PEAP Pillar 1: Creating a Framework for Economic Growth and Structural Transformation. The 
desired outcomes are: (i) macroeconomic stability; and (ii) strengthened budget process.  The PRSC 
supports these by: (a) improving public expenditure management; (b) controlling public administration 
expenditures; (c) strengthened financial services; (d) improving results orientation; and (e) beneficiary 
assessment of public expenditures.  
 
 
PEAP Pillar 2: Strengthening Good Governance and Security.  Desired outcomes include: (i) 
strengthened detection and sanctioning of corrupt practices; (ii) improved transparency, rule of law and 
government-NGO partnership; (iii) strengthened financial management; (iv) improved effectiveness of 
public procurement; and (v) improved capacity and performance of the public service.  The PRSC 
supports these by: (a) increasing accountability of leaders; (b) improving legal frameworks and 
Page  3
 
 
participatory approaches in service delivery; (c) mitigating fiduciary risks in central and local 
government; (d) harmonizing procurement regulation across central and local governments; (e) achieving 
competitive pay levels for professional and managerial staff linked to improved performance; and (f) 
putting in place the requisite systems for greater accountability.
 
 
PEAP Pillar 3: Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise Their Incomes.  
Desired outcomes are: 
(i) improved environmental sustainability; (ii) improved quality of and access to supporting services for 
rural development; and (iii) more effective management of land resources.
  
The PRSC supports these by: 
(a) increasing integration of environmental sustainability concerns in government programs; (b) 
improving the effectiveness of agricultural research and advisory services; (c) promoting rural finance, 
improving rural roads and removing agricultural marketing constraints; and (d) strengthening land tenure 
security, especially for women, and other vulnerable groups. 
PEAP Pillar 4: Improving Quality of Life of the poor.  
Desired outcomes include: (i) achieving 
Universal Primary Education; (ii) reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, and combating 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; and (iii) improving access to functional water and sanitation 
facilities.  PRSC supports these through strong ongoing sector-wide processes and reviews.  Satisfactory 
progress towards multiple medium-term outputs are prior-actions for the PRSC and there has been 
progress in all three sectors.  However, many problems, including infant and maternal mortality, are 
beyond the mandate of a particular sector, and PRSC also plays an important role in addressing these 
crosscutting concerns.   
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Coordination of PEAP and PRSC Implementation.  
The Cabinet has approved the new 
Government-wide coordination arrangements for the poverty reduction reforms.  These establish three 
major committees, at Cabinet under the Prime Minister, at Permanent Secretary (PS) level under the Head 
of Service/Secretary to Cabinet and at technical level under the PS OPM or PS MoFPED.  The 
responsibility for servicing these new coordination arrangements is vested in OPM.  Accordingly, the 
coordination of the PRSC programs will over time be shifted from MoFPED to OPM.  The PRSC team 
assisted OPM/MoFPED in working out the transition arrangements, and will continue to provide support 
as appropriate. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The PRSC is a program which is entirely consistent with the broader national program, the PEAP, 
which again is consistent with the Midterm Expenditure Framework (MTEF).  It is also a condition for 
the PRSC that there is a stable Macroeconomic environment, and that the IMF’s supported PRGF 
program is on track.  The PRGF was last revised and presented to the IMF board in December 2003.  The 
MTEF is monitored regularly by the Bank and other Development partners – the framework is found 
sustainable and out-turns so far in the fiscal year have been accordingly. 
 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
Stocktaking on Uganda PRSCs [preliminary] 
Page  4
 
 
[NOTE: The conclusions of the stocktaking below are still preliminary. They have benefited from the 
comments from other donors but are still being reviewed by the Government and the World Bank.  
Updated versions will appear as PRSC 4 nears completion] 
 
 Stocktaking
.  A stocktaking exercise of PRSCs 1-3 is underway.  Since PRSC is a relatively new 
instrument, it is important to reflect on experience so far with PRSC in Uganda and explore how the first 
three operations have performed, recognizing that the PRSC objectives are of a longer term nature.  The 
objective of the exercise is to study what has worked, and what could be further improved in the Uganda 
PRSC process in the future.  The exercise also aims to strengthen the consensus among the Government 
and donors on the way forward. 
 
Stocktaking was launched with a workshop held on June 20, 2003 in Kampala.  The purpose of 
the workshop was to gather Government’s and donors’ perceptions of the PRSC process so far, and 
brainstorm about the way forward.  About 80 Government officials and representatives of donor agencies 
attended the event, in addition to World Bank staff. Further, a series of interviews (about 30) was 
conducted with various Ministries, agencies, and donor representatives.  World Bank staff were also 
interviewed and some insights were gained from an internal Bank country team retreat in January of 2004 
that reviewed the performance of PRSCs for Tanzania and Uganda within the context of World Bank 
Country Assistance Strategies for these countries. 
 
Conclusions and Recommendations of Stocktaking.  The PEAP and PRSC processes have led to a 
substantial sharpening of the overall vision of development for Uganda and its main strategic 
components.  There are no voices calling for stopping the process.  The bottom line is that the PRSCs are 
the single best vehicle for helping Uganda advance on its system-wide reform process and a number of its 
key components such as service delivery and crosscutting issues that are transactions-intensive and 
require complex coordination across sectors.   
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[x] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[x] 
 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
Analysis of Environment And Resettlement Issues; 
Integrated Data and Safeguards Document 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  5
 
 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Patrick D. Murphy 
Title: Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-6450 
Fax:  (202) 473-8299 
Email: Pmurphy@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
