                Document of
             The World Bank




                                           Report No: 35569

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
               (GRTD-H1210)

                   ON A

                  GRANT

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION

            TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                 UGANDA

                  FOR A

FOURTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION




                June 30, 2006

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective )

                       Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling (Ush)
                              US$ 1 = Ush 1867.50 (June 29, 2006)

                             FISCAL YEAR
                             July 1-June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGO                     Accountant General's Office
CSO                     Civil Society Organization
CPCC                    Cabinet Subcommitee on Policy Coordination
HSSP                    Health Sector Strategic Plan
ICSC                    Implementation Coordination Steering Committee
ICR                     Implementation Completion Report
IGG                     Inspector General of Government
IFMS                    Integrated Financial Management System
IMR                     Infant Mortality Rate
JLO                     Justice, Law and Order
MAAIF                   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries.
MoFPED                  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MoLG                    Ministry of Local Government
MTEF                    Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MoPS                    Ministry of Public Service
MWLE                    Ministry of Water, Lands and Energy
MMR                     Maternal Mortality Rate
NGO                     Non Governmental Organization
OPM                     Office of the Prime Minister
OAG                     Office of the Auditor General
PFAA                    Public Financial Accountability Assessment.
PMA                     Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture
PRSC                    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
TICC                    Technical Implementation Coordination Committee

                      Vice President:   Gobind Nankani
                   Country Director     Judy O'Connor
                    Sector Manager      Kathie L. Krumm
     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Young Chul Kim

                                           UGANDA
                             Poverty Reduction Support Credit 4


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            20
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             45
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             46
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             47
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51

Project ID: P074082                                                  Project Name: Poverty Reduction Support Credit 4
Team Leader: Young Chul Kim                                          TL Unit: AFTP2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Poverty Reduction Support Credit 4                       L/C/TF Number: GRTD-H1210
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (20%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                            (20%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%); Health (20%); General
                            education sector (20%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (P); Population and reproductive health (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Education for all (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/07/2003                                     Effective: 02/28/2005                02/28/2005
     Appraisal: 03/16/2004                                         MTR: 11/01/2006                  11/01/2006
      Approval: 09/02/2004                                      Closing: 09/30/2005                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC
                                           DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Modavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               Judy M O'Connor
Sector Manager:                 Kathie L. Krumm                                Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Team Leader at ICR:             Young Chul Kim
ICR Primary Author:             Peter Miovic & Alema E.
                                Siddiky


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 Program context. The fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC4) is the fourth in
a series of financing operations supporting the implementation of Uganda's second Poverty
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP-2)1. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first
three PRSCs (Report No: 28838) was presented to the Board of the World Bank on March 10,
2005. Each PRSC in Uganda finances one year of a rolling three-year program in support of the
PEAP and one ICR is normally provided for a sequence of three operations. PRSC4 is unusual in
that it was the last in the series of operations to support Uganda's second PEAP. Originally, it
was envisaged that PRSC4 (as well as 5 and 6) would be aligned directly with and provide
financial support for the implementation of the third PEAP. In the event, the preparation of the
third PEAP was delayed and in order to continue to have predictable resource flows to the
budget, the Government and the Bank decided to proceed with preparation of PRSC4 aligning it
directly to the second PEAP but ensuring that the medium term program supported by PRSCs 4,
5 and 6 would be consistent with the third PEAP. It was further intended that any necessary
adjustments could be made during preparation of PRSC5. Despite this, and the design of PRSC4
to finance one year of a rolling three year program, it was decided that a full ICR should be
provided for PRSC4 and that PRSCs 5, 6 and 7 would be evaluated as a series.

3.1.2 There are a number of conceptual difficulties in preparing a single ICR for PRSC-4 (as
there would be for any single year PRSC): it is difficult to create linkages between previous and
future PRSCs and also the period for which PRSC4 is to be assessed is uncertain.2 PRSC4 should
technically be assessed on the achievements noted in the PRSC4 Program Document, generally
coinciding with the financial year 2003/04 ending in June 2004. However, the grant was released
in April, 2005 and presumably financed the reforms achieved over the remainder of the financial
year (2004/05) which coincided with preparation of PRSC5. Therefore, for the purposes of this
ICR, PRSC4 is assessed using a number of measures : (i) performance on reforms over the period
of the financial year 2003/04, (ii) Prior Actions that were anticipated for PRSC5 as PRSC4 went
to the Board, compared with those actually taken for PRSC5, (iii) a determination of which of
the lessons learned from the ICR for PRSC 1-3 had influenced the design of PRSC4 and (iv),
information that became available on the outputs of the program since PRSC4 went to the Board.

3.1.3 Another conceptual difficulty, presuambly common to evaluting PRSC series as well as
individual operation, how to seperate out the contribution which many other Bank and
development partner projects were making to support the PEAP reforms.       3  PRSC4 benefited
from several ongoing Bank operations in its efforts to support PEAP implementation and
contributed to their success through particular actions. For example, the Agricultural Research
and Training project needed action on budget allocation and PRSC4 continued to seek this, while
the private sector project under development during PRSC4 preparation undertook to advance
the land tenure work.

3.1.4 ICR for PRSCs 1, 2 and 3. The first three PRSCs were conceived and implemented as
part of a rolling three-year PRSC program and aimed at supporting aspects of implementation of
Uganda's second PEAP. The ICR for the first series of PRSCs (PRSC1, 2 and 3) assessed the
program outcome as satisfactory (Report No: 28838, March 10, 2005). The ICR commented on



                                                   - 2 -

the contribution to macroeconomic stability and financial resource management through ensuring
more effective transfers of allocated funds and reducing the deviation between budgeted and
annual expenditures and through increasing the predictability of donor resource flows.

3.1.5 Specifically, in regard to support for the four pillars of the second PEAP, the ICR found
successes and failures with many difficulties associated with measuring progress. However, the
overall outcome is assessed as satisfactory.

3.1.6 The ICR also confirmed that the PRSC program had a substantial institutional
development impact in a number of areas although the overall institutional impact was assessed as
modest. The three social sectors are examples though it was not easy to ascribe specific impact as
a result of the three PRSCs. The establishment of 14 Sector Working Groups and the
establishment of the inter-ministerial coordinating mechanism in the Office of the Prime Minister
facilitated the PRSC dialogue with Government and were duly acknowledged. The sustainability
was rated as Likely as PRSCs had created a momentum: strong focus on the PEAP, many
institutional structures and processes, the start of the decentralization of responsibility, the
initiation of participatory processes, and an effective instrument for budget support.

3.1.7 The lessons learned of relevance to future PRSCs included: in order to increase the incomes
of the poor, strengthening the economic enabling environment isn't enough. More direct
interventions may be needed. Work is needed at district level to ensure civic involvement and
participation. Future PRSCs must state goals in concrete measurable terms, although that is
easier said than done. The Bank should provide Government with improved ongoing support and
facilitation, including by increasing resident technical expertise. Weak capacity of local
governments should be kept in mind. There was need for Government and development partners
to agree on a long-term financing strategy to govern and coordinate future levels of aid, including
clarifying a graduated response in the case of reforms being off-track. The PRSC should not have
to carry alone the control of corruption and defense expenditure.

3.1.8 While many of these lessons were known towards the end of preparation of PRSC4, the
final ICR went to the Board only in March, 2005, while PRSC4 was approved in August, 2004.
Accordingly, not all lessons could be expected to be addressed in PRSC4.

3.1.9 Objectives of PRSC4. PRSC4 was prepared during the fiscal year of 2003/04 and
presented to the Board of the World Bank on August 5, 2004.4 It followed the first three PRSCs
(PRSC3 approved in September 2003) and its objectives continued the reform program supported
by its predecessors. PRSC2 and PRSC3 had each specified outputs and targets for PRSC4.
PRSC4 was also developed with the expectation that the reform program would be supported by
two subsequent PRSCs. Thus PRSC4 specified outputs and targets for that three year period,
including years covered by PRSC5 and PRSC6. PRSC4 provided a grant of $150 million and this
was released on April 21, 2005.

3.1.10. The development objectives of the proposed PRSCs series are to finance the
implementation of Uganda's long-term PEAP objectives through support for three-year outputs
and the policy actions required to achieve these outputs with a specific focus on policy and



                                                  - 3 -

institutional reforms with a higher impact on poverty.5 The overall objective of PRSC4 was
"equitable access to and effective delivery of public services and improved rural development". In
addition, PRSC4 sharpened the focus on gender, infant and maternal mortality, female fertility
rates, and results-orientation. Figure 1 below shows the relationship between PEAP 2 and the
overall objective, the ten outcomes and the forty one outputs of PRSC4. There is a rough
correspondence between the four pillars of PEAP 2 and the outcomes of PRSC4, but it is not a
strictly one-to-one mapping (Pillar 1 is supported by Outcome 1, Pillar 2, by Outcomes 2-5, Pillar
3 by Outcomes 6-7, and Pillar 4 by Outcomes 8-10).

3.1.11. Design of PRSC4. The design of PRSC4 replicated the three previous PRSCs: a one year
single-tranche operation with Board presentation based on Government's achievement of a small
number of Prior Actions and disbursement of the $150 million grant to follow effectiveness. This
design has a number of benefits, including simplicity and predictability with reforms achieved
before Board approval. The design "supports national self-reliance, encourages monitoring and
learning from experience, and facilitates coordination across government agencies, between
government and development partners, and among development partners." (ICR for a first series
of PRSCs 1- 3) Difficulties in the past included the way goals were couched with procedural
steps replacing outputs and outcomes. To the extent the results were described, they were not
easy to measure. PRSC4 addressed this problem directly by describing outcomes in relation to
their impact on the objectives of the four PEAP 2 pillars. Bearing in mind changes envisaged for the
third PEAP then under preparation. It also related a set of three year outputs to each of the ten
outcomes and described them in measurable terms (recall that PRSC4 was designed as the first in
a three year rolling reform program). In addition, Schedule II, the Policy Results Matrix, showed
for each outcome and output the progress indicator, target and base year, data source and policy
actions for PRSCs 4, 5 and 6 while Schedule III showed progress on outcomes and outputs for
PRSC4 only. These schedules were developed jointly with the Government (the Office of the
Prime Minister) and the development partners. UK, Netherlands, Ireland, Sweden and Germany. Finally,
Annex 1 of the PRSC4 Program Document provided details of the reform program, under results,
progress and strategy. While this was written mainly by the Bank team, it was checked and
agreed by development partners and Government. Developing these schedules and the annex
ensured that there was broad understanding of the objectives across government ministries, donor
agencies and within the Bank team.

3.1.12 A second important development within PRSC4's design is the effort to spell out the
principles and processes of developing Prior Actions.8 During PRSC4 preparation, the principles
for development of Prior Actions were discussed and agreed with Government and development
partners. They are attached to the PRSC4 Program Document as Annex 3. In addition during the
negotiation for PRSC4 it was agreed tht for future PRSCs a two page note would be developed
for each Prior Action and these would become the basis for assessment of achievement. It was
agreed then that such notes wold be produced early on in the PRSC year to ensure that there was
a shared understanding among partners which would guide the implementation of the prior
actions. PRSC5 began this practice.




                                                     - 4 -

Figure 1: Summary of Second PEAP and PRSC Objectives

                                         PEAP: Overall Objective: Reduction of Poverty Headcount to 10 percent by year 2017

PEAP Pillar I: Creating a Framework       PEAP Pillar II: Strengthening Good Governance and              PEAP Pillar III: Increasing the        PEAP Pillar IV
for Economic Growth and Structural        Security                                                       Ability of the Poor to Raise their     of the Poor
Transformation                                                                                           Incomes



                   PRSC : Overall Objective: Equitable Access to and Effective Delivery of Public Service and Improved Rural Dev

Outcome 1. Efficient and Outcome 2.          Outcome 3.           Outcome 4.        Outcome 5.        Outcome 6.        Outcome 7.             Outcome 8.
equitable use of public   Improved           Strengthened         Stronger rule of  Improved civil Improved             Improved Enabling      Achieve
resources                 capacity and       financial mngt.      law,              society           environmental     environment for        Universal
                          performance of     practices            transparency,     participation     sustainability    transition from        Primary
Three year outputs:       the public service                      detection and                                         subsistence to         Education
                                             Three year           sanctioning of    Three year        Three year        commercial
1.1 Comprehensiveness     Three year         outputs:             corrupt practices outputs:          outputs:          agriculture:           Three year
of MTEF facilitates       outputs:                                                                                                             outputs:
coherent budget                              3.1 Legal and        Three year        5.1 A better      6.1Establishme Three year outputs:
management;                                  institutional                          operational       nt of a                                  8.1
                          2.1 Pay levels for framework            outputs:          environment       sustainable and
1.2 Strengthened local                                                                                                                         Improved
                          GOU                updated and                            for governmentintegrated            7.1 Strengthened
ownership of                                                                                                                                   quality of
                          professional/man implementation         4.1 Improved      and NGO           approach to       coordination of PMA
decentralized public                                                                                                                           teaching;
                          agerial staff are  commenced;           access to justice partnerships; environmental         implementation;
service delivery;         competitive and                         and increased                       management;                              8.2
                                             3.2 Integrated                         5.2 Standard                        7.2 Increased access
1.3 Increased use of      consistent with                         efficiency and                                                               Increased
                                             financial                              methodologiesand                    to and relevance of
beneficiary assessments   controlled                              effectiveness in                                                             access to
                                             management                             for civil society 6.2 Established   agricultural advisory
to promote public         expansion in                            the                                                                          learning
                                             system replaces                        monitoring of and functioning       services;
accountability;           public                                  administration of                                                            materials;
                          administration/    current manual       justice, law, and GOU               agencies for      7.3 Strengthened       and
1.4 Improved funding      service;           system to ensure     order;            performance; forest resource        microfinance and
and coverage of national                     complete,                                                management.                              8.3
                                                                                    5.3 A                               rural financial
pension schemes;          2.2 Personnel      accurate and         4.2 Strengthened                                      markets;               Improved
                          management and timely financial         detection of      harmonized                                                 learning
1.5 A coherent strategy   payroll systems    reporting;           corrupt practices;framework for                       7.4 Reduced agro-      environment
and clear division of     accurately reflect                                        community                           processing and
labor established for     actual GoU         3.3 Lower            4.3 Greater       participation in                    marketing
M&E addressed in policy employment and       fiduciary risk and effectiveness in    service delivery                    constraints;
and budgets;              staff costs; and   strengthened         sanctioning
                                             public financial     corrupt acts by                                       7.5 Strengthened
1.6 Implications of       2.3 Public sector  accountability       key groups of                                         tenure security,
gender inequality for     reform program     cycle in central     leaders; and                                          particularly greater
growth and development linked to PEAP        and local                                                                  access to and control
addressed in policy and and sector plans. government; and         4.4 Improved                                          over land by women;
budgets development;                                              accountability
                                                                                                                        7.6 Improved food
and                                          3.4 Strengthened and effectiveness
                                             external audit       of public                                             security and nutrition.
1.7 Policy and budgets                       structures and       procurement.
address the implications                     practices, and
of rapid population                          enhanced quality
growth/high infant and                       of audit services
maternal mortality for                       rendered.
growth.


3.1.13 Third, the continued development of the sector-wide approaches and associated annual
reviews in Education, Health and Water and Sanitation and the efforts to extend these sector-wide
approaches during PRSC4 enabled a very wide range of work on the sectors to be reflected in a
single Prior Action for each sector. For example, satisfactory progress in implementing the
undertakings in the health sector review in one year and confirmed in the next year is just the tip
of the iceberg. Behind it stand nine undertakings in the sector and a comprehensive examination
of progress together with setting of future goals. Similar sector review mechanisms were used in
Education, and Water and Sanitation. During the period of PRSC4 preparation, work continued



                                                                 - 5 -

to develop sector-wide approaches for Agriculture, Anti-corruption, Environment, Public Service
Reform, Decentralization, and Justice, Law and Order with the agriculture sector now reviewing
sector-wide progress annually and the others developing procedures to enable such reviews.

3.1.14. Finally, in regard to PRSC design, on the Government side, the coordination and
monitoring of the PEAP moved from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFPED)
to the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) and PRSC team supported this change. Formal
meetings during PRSC4 preparation were chaired by the Head of the Public Service and the
PRSC team counterparts were the Permanent Secretary and officials in the Office of the Prime
Minister (OPM). This was particularly useful in gaining consensus as the OPM is the recognized
leader for Government ministries.


3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 The Objective of PRSC4 was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. As discussed earlier, PRSC4 supported selected elements of the second PEAP and the
operation was approved on the basis of satisfactory progress on selected PEAP reforms. As
shown in Figure 1 above, the four PEAP Pillars had ten associated outcomes and these outcomes
had forty-one associated three-year outputs. The progress on each of these is described in the
PRSC4 Program Document, Annex 1: Details of the Reform Program: Results, Progress and
Strategy.

3.3.2 PEAP Pillar I: Creating a framework for economic growth and structural
transformation.
The main outcome was expected to be: efficient and equitable use of public resources and there
were seven three-year outputs associated with this outcome.        Originally, the prior action
executed through the PRSC4 period in pursuit of the first output was: agreement with
development partners on MTEF for 2003/04 ­ 2005/06 and execution of the 2003/04 budget
consistent with the allocations was intended to cover the first three quarters only. This Prior
Action was changed to monitor the full year. Actions during the preparation of PRSC4 on outputs
(i) to (iv) included outcome and output measures and targets within budgets of key sectors;
integration of Official Development Assistance into the MTEF; implementation of the fiscal
decentralization strategy in pilot districts; establishing service delivery standards based on national
survey results; and assessment of cost implications of liberalized pension sector. Attention paid to
the last three outputs (outputs (v) through (vii)) is described below under cross-cutting issues.

3.3.3. PEAP Pillar II: Strengthening good governance and security. Four outcomes of PRSC4
were related to this pillar. These four outcomes had fourteen three-year outputs associated with
them. Actions taken under PRSC4 included two Prior Actions: Ministry of Public Service
(MoPS) and Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED) were to effect
salary adjustments consistent with the pay reform strategy and MTEF; and MoPS and MoFPED
were to complete a comprehensive draft policy paper on issues, measures and modalities for
controlling the size of public administration and ensuring efficiency and effectiveness of the
establishment in social sectors (they were also to have discussed this with social sector ministries).



                                                   - 6 -

Other actions included a participatory review of the Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) and
preliminary steps towards implementing the Integrated Personnel and Payroll System.

3.3.4. PRSC4 actions under outcome 3 included revision of Treasury and Accounting Instructions
for the Public Finance and Accountability Act; approval of the new organizational structures of
the Accountant General's Office; piloting of the accounting module of the Integrated Financial
Management System in six ministries and four local authorities; revised Treasury Memoranda
issued for 1997/98; Office of the Auditor General plans for implementation of the agreed
approach for audit of sub-county local authorities on a sustainable basis, and the OAG carries out
a staff capacity building program.

3.3.5. Originally (as anticipated in PRSC3), PRSC4 actions for outcome 4 included only one Prior
Action: The Inspector General was to complete analysis of declared assets and information
collected from key categories of leaders, initiate assets verification, investigate all complaints from
the public received by his office by November 1, 2003, and present a time bound action plan for
implementation of the Leadership Code. A second Prior Action was added in the course of
preparing PRSC4 which had to do with improving accountability and effectiveness of public
procurement PRSC4: "By May 2004 the Ministry of Local Government will have submitted to
Cabinet the draft Local Government Procurement and Disposal of Assets Regulations and
proposals to amend the Local Government Act, particularly on those issues relating to the
appointment and removal of the tender board members in the Local Governments". This Prior
Action had not been anticipated during PRSC3 preparation but was suggested by Government
and development partners added during PRSC4 preparation.

Other actions under Outcome 4 included: satisfactory implementation of undertakings agreed on
the Justice Law and Order sector review in June confirmed in December; the Department of
Ethics and Integrity tables the amendment to the Prevention of Corruption Act in Parliament;
MoPS tables the principles of access to government information to Cabinet; and select reports of
Commissions of Inquiry published within six months of work completion together with a
Government white paper on proposed action.

3.3.6. Actions taken during PRSC4 preparation under outcome 5 included; commencing the
development of an NGOs policy; OPM and MoFPED facilitate discussions with Civil Society
Organizations regarding monitoring and dissemination methodologies for effective linkage with
policy processes; and Ministry of Local Government and local authorities implement and monitor
the performance of the participatory planning and budgeting framework.

3.3.7. PEAP Pillar III: Increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes. There were
two outcomes and eight outputs relating to this pillar. Outcome 6 was improved environmental
sustainability and it had the following two outputs associated with it: (i) establishment of a
sustainable and integrated approach to environmental management; and (ii) established and
functioning agencies for forest resource management. Actions during the PRSC4 period included
establishment of a sustainable and integrated approach to environmental management, and the
establishment of functioning agencies for forest resource management.




                                                 - 7 -

3.3.8. Under outcome 7 actions during PRSC4 preparation included: approval by Cabinet of the
National Agricultural Research Bill; submission of a restructuring plan for agricultural extension
workers; regulations adopted by Bank of Uganda for implementation of the Microfinance
Deposit-taking Institutions Act; revisions to the Cooperatives Act draft; a ten year District Roads
Investment Program drafted; consultations undertaken on the Uganda Coffee Development
Authority review report; Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) Steering Committee
reviews recommendations on the policy, legal and regulatory environment for the fish and maize
sectors; Ministry of Trade Transport and Industry drafts a Warehouse Receipts Bill for tabling in
Parliament; Ministry of Water Lands and Energy (MWLE) initiates rehabilitation of land registry
records and designs a Land Information System; MWLE appoints members of land tribunals;
MWLE conducts pilots of demarcation and certification in locations representing different land
use systems; MWLE initiates development of evaluation tool for the Land Sector Strategic Plan
to provide baseline assessments of women's rights, including awareness levels; dissemination of
the National Food and Nutrition Policy.


3.3.9. PEAP Pillar IV: Improving quality of life of the poor. The three outcomes associated
with this Pillar had twelve three-year outputs associated with them. For Outcome 8, the outputs
were: (i) improved quality of teaching; (ii) increased access to learning materials; and (iii)
improved learning environment. For Outcome 9 the outputs were: (i) reduction of HIV
prevalence among adult population; (ii) increased use of health services for delivery; (iii)
maintenance of the current level of DPT3 immunization coverage; (iv) increased use of family
planning; and (v) improved maternal and child nutrition. For outcome 10, the outputs were: (i)
increased access to safe water; (ii) improve hygienic practices; (iii) value for money and (iv) clean
water to all health facilities.

3.3.10. The process of determining progress in each of these three sectors (education, health, and
water and sanitation) is somewhat different from the review of other sectors in Uganda. It is
carried out through national reviews of progress. This process is most mature for education (first
review in 1998), then health (first review 1999), and finally water and sanitation which began its
review process in 2001 (with support from PRSC2). Each sector review brings together a wide
range of stakeholders, including development partners, government ministries and CSOs, and
reviews reports of progress provided by the sector ministry and other related ministries (often
Finance and Public Service). Each review also determines a set of undertakings which are agreed
by all stakeholders and monitored annually. The achievement of these undertakings determines
whether the review is "satisfactory'. A rating of satisfactory in each of these sectors has been a
Prior Action since the beginning of PRSCs.

3.3.11. . In regard to Education, the seven undertakings confirmed by the November 2003 review
included undertakings on financial commitment, public expenditure management, quality
enhancement, equitable access outcome, teacher recruitment and a strategic plan for higher
education, strengthening of monitoring and learning, setting up of instructional materials and
construction management units as part of civil service structure. The three input measures used,
pupil to teacher, pupil to textbook and pupil to classroom ratios all improved over the PRSC4
period. (see table 1 below )



                                                 - 8 -

3.3.12. In regard to Health, eight undertakings were confirmed as met by the Health Sector
review. These included: a tracking study of finance, a training plan, scaling up capacity building
for anti-retroviral therapy for HIV/AIDS, initiating emergency obstetric care in all districts, and
community mobilization for health service promotion and delivery. Many key indicators showed
positive trends with most of the eighteen Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) targets achieved.
However, facility based deliveries which remains at 20.3%, is a concern.

3.3.13 In regard to Water and Sanitation, nine undertakings were confirmed as met. These
included: revised sector investment and operational plans, commence implementation of a subsidy
policy providing access for the poor, commence performance monitoring, carry out tracking
studies, and develop a strategy for emergency response. The sector is delivering 3,000 new water
points annually in rural areas and 10,000 in urban areas and is on track to meet the MDG of
supplying 65% of the population with water and 80% with sanitation by 2015.

3.3.14. As pointed out in the discussion of actions in support of Pillar 1 above (para. 3.3.2) there
were also a number of cross-cutting issues (outputs (v) through (vi) under Outcome 1): results
orientation; gender; and high infant/maternal mortality and population growth.

3.3.15. Results-orientation. The planning process for PRSC4 focused on achieving results. All
outcomes were revised and three year medium-term measurable outputs defined for most areas of
the PEAP. The format of the PRSC4 policy matrix, the point of departure for discussions
between Government and Uganda's development partners, was changed to facilitate better results
orientation. Also, the policy matrix and quantitative monitoring indicators matrix of earlier PRSCs
were merged into a Policy Results Matrix to assist a results-driven planning process. In order to
enable a link with PRSCs 1- 3 on one hand and PRSC4, on the other, the PRSC4 Program
Document also provided a matrix showing progress in implementing policy action benchmarks
(Annex 2 of the PRSC4 Program Document: Development of Policy Action Benchmarks).

3.3.16. Gender. A PEAP gender team was appointed by the Government in 2002 and the team
commissioned new analytical and policy-oriented work on the gender dimensions of poverty and
on gender/growth linkages. This work is described in Annex 4 of the PRSC4 Program
Document. Gender focused actions are being implemented across all pillars of the PEAP. Under
Pillar 1, PRSC4 actions included: initiation of revision of the National Gender Policy; developing
gender and equity budgeting guidelines for the 2005/06 budget cycle; and an analysis of gender
and growth linkages in Uganda. Under Pillar 2, there was no specific gender output but there was
a focus on gender and access to justice within the Justice, Law and Order sector review, including
processing the Domestic Relations Bill and the Sexual Offences Bill. Under Pillar 3, PRSC4
actions included: development of evaluation tool for LSSP to provide baseline assessment of
women's land rights, including the level of awareness. Under Pillar 4, Government would
monitor the undertakings in the Education, Health and Water and Sanitation reviews to ensure
that their gender dimensions were addressed explicitly.

3.3.17. Infant and maternal mortality and population growth. The multi-sectoral task force
established to address this area of major concern reported in 2002. The Task Force is



                                                 - 9 -

coordinated by the Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development. Under PEAP Pillar
1, Outcome 1, the output is: policy and budgets address the implications of rapid population
growth/high infant and maternal mortality for growth. Under PEAP Pillar 3, Outcome 7, the
output is: reduce infant and maternal mortality. The PRSC4 action is dissemination of the
National Food and Nutrition Policy. Under PEAP Pillar 4, Outcome 9 has a number of outputs
associated with improved health care for mothers and children


3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1. None of the components were revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. . The Quality Assurance Group did not conduct a Quality at Entry Review and as has been
stated in para 3.1.2 assessing the Quality at Entry for this PRSC could be seen as assessing overall
outcome, given that the results were achieved before the operation went to the Board. However,
assessing the quality of design and the work undertaken with Government may give some
indication of Quality at Entry. The design was based on previous PRSCs and this design has a
number of benefits, including simplicity and predictability with reforms achieved before Board
approval. In addition, PRSC4 addressed the problem identified with earlier PRSCs by describing
outcomes in relation to their impact on the objectives of the four PEAP-2 pillars. Bearing in mind
changes envisaged for the third PEAP then under preparation. It also related a set of three year outputs to
each of the ten outcomes and described them in measurable terms (recall that PRSC4 was
designed as the first in a three year rolling reform program). In addition, Schedule II, the Policy
Results Matrix, showed for each outcome and output the progress indicator, target and base year,
data source and policy actions for PRSCs 4, 5 and 6 while Schedule III showed progress on
outcomes and outputs for PRSC4 only. These schedules were developed jointly with the
Government (the Office of the Prime Minister) and the development partners. UK, Netherlands,
Ireland, Sweden and Germany. The unexpected delay in preparation of the third PEAP and
Government's request to continue preparation of PRSC4 placed additional demands on the
PRSC4 team and they responded by working with the Office of the Prime Minister to ensure that
the operation supported the development of and was aligned with the third PEAP. While the
PRSC series was aligned with the 2000-2003 CAS (which had established the PRSC operation as
the core of IDA's support for Uganda) the preparation of a new CAS was delayed to allow full
alignment with the third PEAP and it was agreed that the Bank work with other development
partners on a Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS). This work was underway during PRSC4
preparation and the team contributed to this work and ensured that the design was consistent with
UJAS thinking as it was known at that time. Accordingly, the Quality at entry is judged to be
highly satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. Overall outcome of PRSC4 is assessed as Satisfactory. The operation has done a
satisfactory job of achieving its overall objective of making progress (along a multi-year path) in
improving "equitable access to and effective delivery of public services and improved rural
development". In turn, the pursuit of this objective has contributed to progress of Uganda's


                                                    - 10 -

objectives under the 4 pillars of PEAP 2. With the exception of the conflict-affected North, both
input and outcome indicators for access and quality of key services in health, education, and water
and sanitation continued to improve. Non-income measures of well-being, such as accumulation
of assets by households, showed sustained improvements in living standards, especially in rural
areas. Despite experiencing a severe terms of trade decline and prolonged drought that affected
farm production and food prices, the economy continued to grow at a respectable annual average
rate of 5.5 percent during 1999-2004, compared with the Sub-Saharan average of 3.3 percent
over the same period. With a per capita gross national income (GNI) of US$270 and one of the
fastest population growth in the world, sustaining the momentum in reducing poverty is becoming
increasingly challenging, as can be seen in the recent slowdown in the pace of poverty reduction
and continuing rise in inequality. Reforms to improve service delivery supported under successive
PRSCs have had a broad and lasting impact on the transformation and diversification of the
economy, and on the quality of life. Overall, however, the macro and sectoral achievements made
with support from PRSC4 have also benefited from the involvement of other development
partners through dialogue and with financial support.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Achievement of outcomes and outputs of PRSC4 are measured in this ICR in several ways:
(i) Reforms measured by outcomes and outputs9, (the implementation of these actions can be
gleaned from Annex 1, a brief discussion follows in paragraphs 4.2.2 through 4.2.11); (ii)
anticipated prior actions in PRSC4 before PRSC5 went to board (iii) lessons learned from
stocktaking of PRSC1-3 and (iv) input and comments from multi-sector PRSC team, development
partners and other stakeholders.

4.2.2. In regard to progress on PEAP Pillar 1: Creating a Framework for Economic Growth and
Structural Transformation, the PEAP outcome supported by PRSC4 had a limited focus: efficient
and equitable use of public resources. Specifically, on progress towards the achievement of
Outcome 1, an examination of each of the outputs under the outcome reveals mixed success, with
clear progress towards some. One example of progress was the reduction of the deviation of
actual from budgeted spending from 7.6% in 2000/01 to 5.4% in 2003/04, the period of
preparation of PRSC4. The Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) developed during
PRSC4 preparation targeted deviations of less than 5%. Also, supplementary expenses were not
to exceed 3% of the total approved budget. This built on the passage of the Public Finance and
Accountability act supported under PRSC3. In addition, the PRSC4 preparation period coincided
with an increased share of budget going to the PAF from 35% in 2001/02 to 37.3% in 2003/04
and with plans to increase it still further over the period of the MTEF. Also, during PRSC4
preparation, Government proceeded with the integration of development partners project funding
into the overall budget for the first time. Government also initiated a PRSC4 prompted study of
how best to do this in future budgets. On the other hand, there was no visible progress towards
other outputs under Outcome 1, e.g. increased use of beneficiary assessments to promote public
accountability; or how policies and budgets would address the implications of rapid population
growth/high infant and maternal mortality. There was a plan for each of these and advocates for
each welcomed the attention given to each of these within the PRSC process. However, the
answer to the question whether this will start real reforms in these areas must await the
assessment of PRSCs 5 and 6.


                                                  - 11 -

4.2.3. Of the four outcomes supported under PEAP Pillar II: Strengthening good governance and
security, PRSC4 made a significant contribution to progress notably in two areas. For example,
PRSC4 helped to strengthen financial management practices through its focus on the legal and
institutional framework, work on the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS), and the
strengthening of external audits. However, progress to date in the current PRSC cycle had been
limited owing to some issues remaining unresolved viz the reorganization of the Accountant
General's Office (AGO), finalization of the Treasury Instructions, the critical issue of the
operational independence of the Auditor General and clearing of the backlog of PAC reports.
The cumulative impact of the PRSC series (1 to 4) may have ensured that 96% of the
self-accounting local governments had produced accounts to 2002/03 and submitted to the
Auditor General. This was up from less than 30% five years before and with significant backlogs.
In addition, a restructuring proposal for the new structures of the Accountant General's Office
had been submitted for approval. There was some progress also on the implementation of the
Integrated Financial Management System to replace the manual system then in place with six
ministries and four local governments reporting progress. Critical legislation on the independence
of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) was developed and reviewed during the PRSC4
preparation period while the independence of the Auditor General was further strengthened by
allowing him access to the accounts on classified expenditures as enshrined in Public Financial
Accountability Assessment (PFAA) (Classified Expenditure) Regulations, July 2003. The OAG
also received support from Local Government Developement Project 2 (LGDP2) for auditing 600
sub-county accounts.

4.2.4 In addition to the progress on financial management, progress was evident in attaining
improved accountability and effectiveness of public procurement. Expert observers had
determined that the current modalities for appointing tender boards in local government had
severe limitations and Government agreed. Accordingly, a new Prior Action to deal with this was
agreed during PRSC4 preparation. A harmonized draft local government procuring arrangements
was submitted to Cabinet and a draft Cabinet paper containing amendment proposals to the
sections of the Local Government act relating to the appointment and dismissal of local
Government tender board members was also prepared and tabled.

4.2.5. It is difficult to judge the progress on improved civil society participation with progress
reported on the popularization and dissemination of the participatory planning and budget
framework but no observations on the impact of this on participation. With respect to NGOs, the
work on the NGO Data was completed and staff trained.

4.2.6. In regard to strengthened rule of law, transparency, detection and sanctioning of corrupt
practices, there was considerable progress in advancing and consolidating the legal framework
and ensuring a broad approach to dealing with these issues. A number of important aspects of the
fight against corruption were taken further. First, following the declaration of assets by key
leaders required under the Leadership Code, these asset declarations were published in Uganda's
newspapers and this was supported publicly by Government. While it is not possible to assign
credit for this to PRSC4, the pressure exerted by the PRSC series, in tandem with that from the
Anti-corruption Working Group and some NGOs is likely to have enabled this to happen.



                                                  - 12 -

Second, the proposed amendments to Uganda's constitution, coupled with the successful
challenge to the Leadership Code, had implications for revising the Prevention of Corruption Act
and the principles were presented to Cabinet for discussion. Again, PRSC4 preparation, through
the Anti-corruption working group, was instrumental in advancing this work. Third, there was
limited progress in regard to the completion of analysis of declared assets and information
collected from key categories of leaders (Cabinet Ministers, Ministers of State, Presidential
advisors and Permanent Secretaries) including comparing declarations with recent declarations
and critical analysis of the information provided on sources of income and acquisition of
properties. In addition, the IGG followed up on complaints received from the public against the
assets declarations but the workload was beyond the capacity of the office. In retrospect, neither
Government nor the development partners, including the Bank, fully anticipated the legal and
political implications of assets declaration and neither was prepared for the successful
constitutional challenge on the IGs authority to conduct assets verification. In addition, there
was not sufficient shared understanding between development partners and Government about
what would constitute an effective asset verification.

4.2.7. One area in which PRSC4 had quite limited impact was improved capacity and performance
of the public service. An examination of the ICR for PRSCs 1,2 and 3 indicates that this area has
stagnated since the initiation of the PRSC process. "Planned PRSC-linked actions to improve
efficiency and effectiveness of the public service have been postponed, and the public service
reform strategy has taken longer than expected to be approved by Cabinet, with no action despite
the fact that reform needs had been clearly analyzed in the Public Administration study." It is
difficult to determine what progress was made during PRSC4 preparation. A number of studies
and reviews were undertaken with reports to be discussed, action plans were prepared to be
implemented later and a very limited amount (USh15bn) was allocated in the budget to
accommodate salary increases for professional/managerial staff. At the same time, the decision
to increase salaries of health workers and teachers was not taken in accordance with agreed norms
and these increases will have a significantly greater impact on budget than the 15 billion shillings
allocated. However, The PRSC 4 facilitated sustaining the public service pay reform and its
strategy by bringing MOFPED and MOPS together to take a common position on pay issues.
This dialogue has improved over time. The PRSC4 helped government initiate measures to help
contain the size of the public service. Under the PRSC, a payroll cleaning exercise started which
was reinforced by the Presidential circular. This exercise also included completing the updating
of personal information database for greater payroll controll and human resources management.
However, the process of putting in place a sustainable intregated system that would bring more
transparency to personnel and payroll is taking much longer than planned due to limited funding
for the exercise. The revamped public service reform program (PSRP) gives priority to this
activity. With the support from development partners including the Bank through its Uganda
Public Service Performance Enhancement Project (UPSPEP), the funding will be available to
move more rapidly on this exercise. The PRSC4 has helped rally a broader support for the reform
program, particularly within government. In that context the Bank has responded by preparing
the UPSPEP to support the government's revamped PSRP in addition to providing support to
areas of reforms identified by the PRSC policy dialogue. However, despite the PRSC budget
support, Government has been unable to put substantial resources into public service reforms. A
sector-wide approach program has been developed and will receive substantial support from



                                                 - 13 -

development partners.

4.2.8. Two outcomes were expected for PEAP Pillar 3: increasing the ability of the poor to raise
their incomes: improved environmental sustainability; and improved enabling environment for
transition from subsistence to commercial agriculture. Whether these are the only two important
outcomes in regard to this pillar may be beyond the scope of this ICR but it is clear that other
actions could benefit the ability of the poor to raise their incomes, including specialized training.
The two outputs associated with environmental sustainability are process outputs and progress
was noticeable, most important being further work on a sector-wide approach to engage the key
players in this enterprise, and the establishment of a National Forest Agency.

4.2.9. On the second outcome: improving the enabling environment for transition from
subsistence to commercial agriculture, PRSC4 did succeed in getting Cabinet consideration of the
National Agricultural Research Bill (they approved it and it was submitted to Parliament) and a
review of the cooperatives act was completed. In addition, arguably the most important
Government effort to achieve this outcome, the Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA),
was the subject of a review of the extent to which the seven ministries involved in implementing
the plan had integrated PMA priority undertakings into their sectoral budgets. The review found
that none had integrated these fully. Following the release of the review, ministries did
incorporate key PMA undertakings into budget.

In regard to microfinance, PRSC4 supported the adoption by the Bank of Uganda of regulations
for the implementation of the Microfinance Deposit-taking Institutions Act (passed by Parliament
in November, 2002) and the Ministry of Trade Transport and Industry drafted revisions to the
Cooperative Act strengthening the framework for savings and credit cooperatives. In regard to
removal of constraints to growth, a ten year district road plan was approved and implementation
began, the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) agreed with the PMA
steering committee on reforms for the Uganda Coffee Development Authority, and the PMA
steering committee reviewed the recommendations on fish and maize production. One of the
more important medium-term outputs was to strengthen coordination of the Plan for the
Modernization of Agriculture and, in this regard, the review of budget allocation and ministry
prioritizations did lead to greater attention to PMA undertakings within budgets.

4.2.10. With regard to increased access to and relevance of agricultural research and advisory
services, the two identified bottlenecks, i.e. the slow pace of de-layering district extension staff
and the supply-driven nature of current agricultural research practices, were to be solved through
approval by Cabinet of the Local Government Restructuring Plan and Parliamentary approval of
the National Agricultural Research Bill. PRSC4 was instrumental in getting each of these tabled
before the relevant bodies.

A Roads Investment Program was approved and design and tender documents were prepared for
the first 700 kilometers. A review of the Uganda Coffee Authority was discussed widely and the
PMA steering committee agreed on reforms, while recommendations on maize and fish
production were also considered by the PMA Steering Committee and a Warehouse Receipts Bill
was prepared for tabling in Parliament. Strengthened land tenure security, including for women,



                                                  - 14 -

benefited from the PRSC4's focus on gender with the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment
which assisted to develop an evaluation tool for the Land Sector Strategic Plan to provide
baseline assessment of women's rights, including levels of awareness. Progress was also evident
on land registry records and a land information system as well piloting land adjudication,
demarcation and certification in locations representing different access to land use systems. On
improved food security and nutrition, Cabinet approved a Food and Nutrition Policy and a
Strategy and Investment plan was prepared and discussed with stakeholders. While the bulk of
the effort on this may be attributed to efforts of the Nutrition and Early Childhood Development
project, PRSC4 helped to get the strategy discussed by the Steering Committee of the PMA.

4.2.11. PEAP Pillar IV: Improving quality of life of the poor focused actions on Education,
Health and Water and Sanitation. PRSC4 was helpful in retaining the focus on satisfactory
achievement of reviews and in identifying some underlying issues beyond the competence of the
sector. These include infant and maternal mortality within the health sector and teacher
recruitment within education. The main health sector problem remains with infant and maternal
mortality indicators. PRSC4 has managed to highlight the importance of multi sectoral action in
order to reduce infant and maternal mortality; however mult-sectoral action still remains
insufficient to reduce IMR and MMR.

                Table1: Achievement in service delivery indicator
                             Target for PRSC-4                                   Current Status
             Education:
             § Pupil:teacherratio55:1in2003/04.                 §        Pupil teacher ratio 50.3:1
             § Pupil:coretextbookratio3:1forP3-4in2003/04       §        Pupil/textbook ratio 2:1
             § Pupil:classroomratio98.1in2002/03to94:1in        §        Pupil/classroom ratio 74:1
             2003/04.
             § Nationalgrossprimaryenrollmentis126.3
             § Cohortsurvivalratetoprimarygrade5hasrisen
             from 36 percent in 2001 to 57 percent in 2003.
             § LearningachievementforP3:Numeracy42.9%
             (2003) and Literacy 34.3 (2003).                   §        Learning achievement for P3: Numeracy
             § LearningachievementforP6:Numeracy:20.5%          45% (2005) and P6 Numeracy 33%.
             (2003)
             Health:
             § OPDUtilization (TotalGNUandPNFP):0.43            §        OPD utilization 0.79 (2003/04) and
             (2000/01) to 0.60(2001/02) to 0.72 (2002/03)       target 0.7 (2004/05)
             § DPT3Immunizationcoverage:48%(2000/01)to          §        DPT 3 immunization coverage 83%
             63% (2001/02) to 84% in 2002/03                    (2003/04) and 85% (2004/05)
             § %deliveriesinhealthfacilities:22.6%(2000/01)     §        % of deliveries at health facilities 24.4%
             to 19% (2001/02) to 20.3% (2002/03)                (2003/04) target 35% (2004/05).
             § Approvedpostfilledbytrainedhealthworkers:
             40% (2000/01) to 42% (2001/02) to 67% (2002/03)    §        Approved post filled by trained health
             § Urban/ruralSpecificAntenatalHIVsero              workers 68% in 2003/04 and 52% (Target
             prevalence: 6.1% (2000/01) to 6.5% (2001/02) to    -2004/05).
             6.2% (2002/03)                                     §        Ante natal sero prevalence 6.3%
             § Contraceptiveprevalencerate:23%in2003/04.        (2003/04) and 5% target (2004/05).
             Water and Sanitation Services
             § Urban/ruralaccesstocleanwater67/57%in            §        Urban clean water access is 67% and
             2003/04;                                           61.3% in rural area.



                                                    - 15 -

             § Urban/ruralaccesstosanitationfacilities:97/80%  §       Urban/rural access to sanitation 60 %.
             in 2003/04.
                Source: WB staff contribution from sector reviews.

4.2.12. The second way of assessing reforms/actions supported by PRSC4 financing is to look at
whether the Prior Actions anticipated in PRSC4 were taken before PRSC5 was sent to the Board
in December of 2005. A comparison of these two sets of Prior Actions is presented in Figure 2. In
interpreting Table 2 it is useful to recall that PRSC5 supports the program under PEAP3. PEAP3
increased the number of pillars from four in PEAP2 to five. There has been a reorganization of the
content and some new areas of support were added. The four pillars of PEAP2 (Framework for
Economic Growth, Good Governance, Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes,
and Improving the Quality of Life of the Poor) do not map neatly over into the five pillars of
PEAP3 (Economic Management; Enhancing Production, Competitiveness and Incomes: Security,
Conflict Resolution, and Disaster Management; Good Governance; and Human Development).
This, however, does not affect the comparison of Prior Actions. All ten of them were
substantially the same under the two credits and all but one were completed. Only the one on
Economic Management was met only partially, with expenditures on Public Administration
continuing to run well above agreed budgets. Performance of PRSC4 judged from this perspective
must thus be considered a success, although it is also attributable to the work and dialogue that
went on in preparation for PRSC5. (Analogously, PRSC4 could take some credit for the
fulfillment of Prior Actions anticipated under PRSC3). It is perhaps worth noting that the Prior
Action under Pillar 2 in support of the PMA now resembles the "one-liners" for Education, Health
and Water and Sanitation which hide behind them a series of core undertakings and are subject to
sector-wide agreements and reviews. This in itself is an achievement.

4.2.13. The third way of assessing progress under PRSC4 is to see to what extent the emerging
lessons from the Stocktaking of PRSCs 1-3 had been taken on board in PRSC4. One of the most
important lessons there was that the PRSCs were seen by the Government to be too "donor
driven". It was therefore felt that under PEAP3 the Government would take charge of the
process of monitoring and evaluation as well as take the lead on coordination. As initial steps in
this process the coordination of Uganda's efforts on the PRSCs was shifted from MoFPED to the
newly formed Technical Implementation Coordination Committee in the Office of the Prime
Minister (see paragraph 7.5.1 for a fuller explanation of the four-level arrangement). Initial steps
were also taken under PRSC4 to bring more clarity to the Objectives/Outcomes/Outputs chair
(the "3 Os") and to begin to develop ways of measuring the outputs. The recommendation on
strengthening civic involvement and participation was also taken as was the plea to increase
resident technical expertise. Also, the recommendation that the task team leader locate in Uganda
was acted upon over PRSC4 preparation. Perhaps the one area where more needed to be done
was on interventions to raise the rate of growth, but it was expected at the time of the preparation
of PRSC4 that PEAP3 would take up that challenge with the support of PRSCs 5-7.
From the point of view of responding to lessons learned and wishes of the Government, PRSC4
can thus also be said to have done a very creditable job.


Table 2: Comparison of Prior Actions anticipated in PRSC4 vs. Actual ones for PRSC 5




                                                  - 16 -

Anticipated Prior Actions for PRSC5 Prior actions for PRSC5 as           Comments
as presented to the Board of World     discussed and agreed with
Bank in September, 2004                Government and partners
                                       during identification
Pillar 1: Economic Management
1. In the public expenditure review,   In the Public Expenditure         Partially met. The provisional outturn
Government has agreed with donors on   Review, Government has agreed     for FY2004/05 shows overall budget
the medium-term expenditure            with donors on the Medium Term    performance and PAF expenditures on
framework (MTEF) for                   Expenditure Framework for         target. Total budget releases for the
2004/05­2006/07, and has executed      2004/05-2006/07, and has          year performed at 100.6% and the PAF
the 2004/05 budget consistent with     executed the 2004/05 budget       performed at 98.8 %, against a 95%
budget allocations;                    consistent with the budget        target. Budget releases were evenly
                                       allocation as appropriated and    distributed over the 4 quarters, and
                                       adjusted with approval of         balanced between recurrent and
                                       Parliament.                       development expenditures. One
                                                                         important element of this prior action
                                                                         went off-track ­ combined expenditure
                                                                         for Security and Public Administration
                                                                         was to be held within the approved
                                                                         budget. While the Security sector
                                                                         performed at 100.2%, Public
                                                                         Administration was above target at
                                                                         112.9%.
2. Expenditures for Public             Submission by the Ministry of     Completed. MOPS in collaboration
Administration in 2004/05 should be    Public Service in collaboration   with MOFPED prepared and submitted
within the agreed allocations for      with the Ministry of Finance,     a Cabinet Paper including the Pay
budget 2004/05;                        Planning and Economic             Reform Policy and an action plan to
                                       Development a cabinet             Cabinet in June 2005. The measures to
                                       memorandum on                     control the size of public
                                       recommendations for controlling   administration and improve cost
                                       the size of public administration effectiveness and efficiency of the
                                       and for enhancing cost efficiency service are part of the Pay Reform
                                       and effectiveness in the public   Policy. MOFPED also provided a
                                       sector targeting Health,          clearer definition of the public
                                       Education, Agriculture, Water     administration sector and its
                                       and Community Development         composition and of the public service
                                       and submission to IDA an Action   management sector and its
                                       Plan on the implementation of     composition. This will provide the
                                       these measures by end of May,     basis for monitoring the performance
                                       2005.                             of the two sectors separately. The
                                                                         policy provides proposals to deepen the
                                                                         restructuring of the public service with
                                                                         a view to ensuring greater cost
                                                                         efficiency and effectiveness. MOFPED
                                                                         will introduce in the next fiscal year
                                                                         specific budget measures to enforce
                                                                         implementation of cost efficiency and
                                                                         efficiency actions. The draft action plan
                                                                         and specific budget measures have been
                                                                         discussed with stakeholders.
Pillar 4: Good Governance
3. Ministries of Public Service and of Continued.                        Completed. The agreed targets will
Finance, Planning, and Economic                                          come into effect in FY 2006/7.



                                                    - 17 -

Development jointly commit to an
updated pay reform strategy and target
salary adjustments for the medium
term;
4. Implementation of the National      Continued.                         Completed.
Anti-Corruption Action Plan
commences;
5. IGG verifies asset declarations of  IGG verifies asset declarations of Completed. IGG verified all of the 64
Ministers and appropriate action is    Ministers and in case of breach    ministerial level declarations of assets.
taken by relevant authorities in       appropriate action is taken by     Significant improvements are needed
accordance with the law;               relevant authorities in accordance with regard to procedures, in particular
                                       with the law by May 2005;          in verifying undeclared assets. Internal
                                                                          factors such as resource constraints and
                                                                          comprehensiveness of operational
                                                                          procedures, as well as external
                                                                          constraints imposed by weaknesses in
                                                                          land and business registries have been
                                                                          identified. The IGG is undertaking
                                                                          steps to improve the process, including
                                                                          developing more comprehensive
                                                                          operations manual, more detailed
                                                                          procedures for assets verification and
                                                                          seek additional expertise to do so. In
                                                                          addition, serious consideration needs to
                                                                          be given by GoU to allocate sufficient
                                                                          funding for IGG, and to improve
                                                                          external systems required for effective
                                                                          assets verification, e.g., lands and
                                                                          business registries.
6. Ministry of Finance, Planning, and  Continued.                         Completed.
Economic Development drafts a
revised Audit Bill (2002) to ensure
adequate operational independence of
the Auditor General;
7. Local Government Amendment Bill     Continued.                         Completed. The bill was also passed
(Procurement) is tabled in Parliament;                                    by the Parliament on November 7,
                                                                          2005.
Pillar 2: Enhancing Production,
Competitiveness and Incomes
8. Increased alignment of budget       Changed to "Satisfactory           Completed
allocations of MAAIF, MTTI, MWHC,      implementation of core
MWLE, MES, MGLSD, MEMD,                undertakings by April 2005 as
MFPED to PMA review undertakings       agreed in the October 2004 Joint
(2004/05, 2005/06, 2006/07);           PMA Annual Review."
Pillar 5: Human Development
9. Satisfactory implementation of the  Continued.                        Completed
undertakings agreed in the education
sector review in November 2003 and
confirmed by the 2004 review;
10. Satisfactory implementation of the Continued.                        Completed
undertakings agreed in the health
sector review in November 2003 and



                                                   - 18 -

confirmed by the 2004 review; and
11. Satisfactory implementation of    Continued.                    Completed
undertakings agreed in water and
sanitation sector review in September
2003 and confirmed by the 2004
review.
Source: PRSC 5 Program Document

4.2.14. Finally, the fourth way of looking at the performance of PRSC4 is to assess the forward
momentum of the reform program as seen by the PRSC team working on the various sectors.
Their views are recorded in the last column of the Key Performance Indicators matrix in Annex I
entitled Current Status and/or Comments and incorporated in various parts of this ICR. The
sense is that there has been progress on increasing the coherence of the budget and in tilting the
allocation further towards being pro-poor, although continued expenditure overruns on Public
Administration detracted from that picture. Clearly there must be a redoubled effort to stop the
creation of new districts and the expansion of Parliament, and to improve the control of
expenditures by the State House and President's office. There was progress in the area of
promoting public accountability with the completion of the first National Service Delivery Survey.
There is movement on gender issues with the preparation of a National Gender Policy, although
weak implementation capacity of the Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Development is not
promising. High fertility rates may finally be addressed in the wake of the revision of the National
Population Policy (on the verge of being completed). The reform of the Public Service sector
(including pay reform) continues to be slow, but may receive a boost from the revamped PSRP
that was just approved by the Cabinet (and will receive support through the World Bank's Public
Sector Performance Enhancement Project). The draft Local Government Procurement
Regulations have been submitted for government approval. This could significantly improve the
performance at the local level, but is at the moment hamstrung by a drastically reduced budget for
the implementation of procurement reforms. The NGOs have voiced strong concern about the
new NGO policy still being dominated by internal security concerns, rather than treating the
NGOs as valuable partners in development. However, there has been good progress in
developing a harmonized framework for community participation in service delivery and a guide
book has been illustrated and is being translated into nine local languages. The National
Environmental Management Agency is still not funded to the agreed level. The Parliament has
approved the Bill to establish the National Agricultural Research Council. Also in the area of
agriculture, the local government restructuring plan was approved, but did not adequately address
the requirements of the production departments. Progress in improving the quality of education
has continued (lower pupil/teacher, pupil/textbook, pupil/classroom ratios and performance in
national assessments has improved). There have also been further improvements in a number of
health sector and water access indicators.

4.2.15. The overall picture is one of steady progress. The macroeconomic environment continues
to be stable with inflation under control and steady growth of GDP in the 5-6% per year range
(which should help reduce poverty, although there are no new numbers available on trends in
income poverty since 2003). Budget allocations are also improving both in terms of their stability
and in their pro-poor orientation (the one important exception are excess expenditures on public
administration). Service delivery in education, health, water and sanitation continues on its



                                                - 19 -

upward trend. There are indications that reforms in agriculture may also soon bear fruit. There is
still perhaps too much attention to inputs (various bills and acts passed, strategies written, action
plans produced) and insufficient attention to measuring outcomes and in that sense it is too early
to judge the progress in the new cross-cutting initiatives on gender, high fertility and high
maternal and infant mortality rates. Hopefully there will be improvements in these areas beyond
more and better inputs. This is also true of procurement at the local government level and a
couple of other areas (see previous paragraph). On the other hand, the new results-orientation
within PRSC4 (including that under PEAP-3 to which PRSC4 contributed) should help speed up
the process of transforming inputs into outcomes and impact on the ground.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
It can be argued that the PRSC process makes a major contribution to effective use of human and
financial resources across Government. The process has supported a range of reforms in services
delivery and rural development, helping to ensure that these reforms are backstopped with
necessary supports from public service and local government and through action to combat
corruption. Specifically, PRSC4 provided additional support to Government in its efforts to
manage its own reform program (the PEAP). Government determined that the OPM should take
over from MFPED the lead coordination role in the reforms. PRSC4 supported this change and
worked closely with the OPM to develop a robust monitoring and evaluation framework as well
as to manage a very complex (and changing as the third PEAP was being developed) reform
program. The increasingly adept handling of the reforms by OPM during PRSC5 preparation is
some evidence of the value of this support.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. Continued conflict in the north of Uganda and extensive cattle-rustling in the north-east can
be seen as issues that are beyond government control in the short to medium term. Yet, as the
levels and trends in poverty numbers show, there has been little improvement in the lives of
people in these areas over the past 10 years and the delivery of services of all kinds has been
lagging. Neither PRSC4 nor its predecessors have made much impact there. Weather and
trade-related shocks are also beyond the government's control, such as the drought which had an
impact on food supply and hence on headline inflation numbers in 2004/05.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Pressures on the budget generated by the ongoing insecurity in the north of the country
(about which the government could do little in the short to medium term) and by the political
process increased during 2003/04 and the discussions on these changes proved acrimonious
during PRSC4 preparation, and would become more so for PRSC 5. (PRSC4 preparation
coincided with the initial call for constitutional reform to accommodate three or more terms for a
President) The problems of over-expenditure on defense were largely addressed during the
PRSC4 preparation period but not necessarily owing to PRSC4. Following donor statements


                                                     - 20 -

during the Public Expenditure Review workshop, a defense review was agreed and Government
undertook to contain defense expenditures within budget ceilings while awaiting the outcome of
the review. However, expenditures on public administration were (again) the subject of
discussion because they potentially "crowded-out" expenditures that would likely have a more
positive impact on growth, poverty alleviation and service delivery. Continued expansion of
administration structures is aggravating the problem of high cost of public administration. The
Bank team had supported a study of public administration with terms of reference jointly
developed by the Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development and the Bank team.
However, the recommendations of the study were not implemented. Ensuring efficient use and
effectiveness of public resources is needed to `scale up' service delivery within available means.
Expenditure tracking and value-for-money studies are not given due prominence and
recommendations not effectively implemented.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
See paragraph 7.5.1 below

5.4 Costs and financing:
PRSC4 was financed by a grant of $150 million

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. PRSCs have by now attained a momentum of their own, with each PRSC building on the
one before. Progress in the reform program as well as in outcomes over time is visible, even if not
uniform across sectors. Alignment with the PEAP has improved and has become tighter with
PEAP 3, thanks to the extensive level of consultation that has gone on within Uganda as well as
between the Government and the development partners. Alignment has been amplified by the
preparation of the Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS) by an important group of
development partners, including the World Bank. Capacity of Ugandan institutions is constantly
improving, including at the local level. From the fiscal sustainability point of view, the low level of
revenue-to-GDP ratio remains a concern, although there has been an improvement in revenue
collection over the past two year. Better control of expenditures on public administration is still
an issue that needs addressing. While there clearly remain risks to sustainability, Uganda's
continued good performance on the macroeconomic and several other fronts provides some
confidence that the gains achieved so far are sustainable.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 PRSCs have now become a regular part of the lending program. They provide substantial
and needed budget support, while being complemented by specifically targeted projects.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         Government of Uganda's Assessment of the Implementation of the Fourth Poverty
                                       Reduction Support Operation




                                                    - 21 -

7.1.1 PRSC4 was prepared in parallel with a stocktaking exercise of PRSCs 1 through 3 as well
as taking place between PEAP-2 and PEAP-3 between the tail end of the existing World Bank
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the CAS that was to define a more joint approach to
Uganda among an important group of development partners (Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
which was discussed by the Board with PRSC5 in January 2006), and during a shift in the group
coordinating the task on the Government side from MFPED to the OPM. It also took on the task
of becoming more results-oriented and addressing a number of cross-cutting issues that had been
falling between the cracks in the past (gender, high maternal and infant mortality rates and high
fertility rates). It managed this set of transitions well, by addressing lessons of the past, bringing
greater clarity to the drive for results, and by helping establish new coordination arrangements on
the Government side (which held the promise of stronger leadership from the Government across
the board in the future).

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1. PRSCs do not have an implementation phase and hence have no formal supervision. As
each PRSC is prepared, the on-going programs are examined for progress, and new targets
(outputs and Prior Actions) are developed. Progress in the various sectors is also continuously
monitored in the sector working groups. Many of the staff also take the opportunity while
working on specific projects in Uganda, to check on those aspects of the on-going PRSC
preparation of relevance to them. Also, the Task Team Leader (TTL) and sector specialists are
resident in the country office, allowing for dialogue with government and other development
partner year round, to assist with problems that may arise and keep track of the overall PRSC
process (a recommendation of the previous ICR).


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1 Based on the above, the overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 The Government's PEAP is the basis for all PRSCs, including PRSC4. The PEAP document
is based on extensive consultations, participatory poverty assessments, household and tracking
surveys, census data, and in-depth sectoral analyses. The feedback loop from outputs and
outcomes back to policy actions has been visibly improved over time. The new PEAP (PEAP 3)
has thus been realigned to new realities, including a new emphasis on growth and a substantial
strengthening of monitoring and evaluation. The new PEAP, as has the past one on which PRSC4
was based, also covers all of the critical elements needed in terms of institutional, environmental,
economic, and social factors, as well as civic participation and community development. The
Government also put in place new arrangements for the preparation of PRSCs, and importantly,
for coordination across ministries (see next para.)

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. Government established a four-tier coordination system for PRSC4 and subsequent PRSCs
to ensure progress with reforms. These were: (i) Cabinet Subcommittee on Policy Coordination
(CPCC) comprising Ministers of coordinating Ministries under the Chairmanship of the Prime
Minister; (ii) Implementation Coordination Steering Committee (ICSC) composed of all
Permanent Secretaries under the Chairmanship of the Head of the Public Service/Secretary to


                                                  - 22 -

Cabinet; (iii) Technical Implementation Coordination Committee (TICC) comprising a
multi-sectoral technical committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Prime
Minister; and (iv) Sector Working Groups (SWG) bringing together all sectoral stakeholders. A
joint secretariat under the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) serves CPCC and TICC and led the
implementation of PRSC4 and liaised with Bank staff and other partners in the preparation of
PRSC4. These arrangements, although newly established, worked reasonably well under PRSC4,
particularly the liaison with OPM in preparation and the provision of reports to the ICSC. During
negotiations, it was valuable to have the interest of the Prime Minister in ensuring that important
reforms were discussed by relevant Ministers and in the case of the "prior action" on procurement
reforms at local government level, informal discussions ensured that the "prior action" was met.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
See previous paragraph

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the factors stated above, the overall borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Prior Actions are a very powerful tool for supporting change and should be chosen carefully
and be few in number. Describing a specific action as a "prior action" gets Government attention
and Government will work seriously to achieve the action. In Uganda, PRSC4 was able to ensure
specific reforms in local government procurement and these were included in the Cabinet paper
and subsequently enshrined in law. Specific actions guiding reforms in anti-corruption, financial
management, management of public finances and budget process were all realized. PRSC4
underscored this with a joint description of the principles for defining prior actions included in the
final document

8.2 PRSCs are most effective when sequenced over a period of time, at least three years, and
where each PRSC builds on actions taken in previous years. Expecting major reforms over a
one-year period is unrealistic. However, designing actions each year which lead to outputs over a
three year period is possible. During the three year period up to PRSC4, changes in financial
management practices were carefully sequenced and each year's change anticipated further
developments in the following year. This is also true of the agricultural reforms which built on the
PMA, ensuring that different ministries. began to implement those aspects for which they were
responsible and moving the whole process in the direction of a sector-wide approach.

8.3 PRSCs should define three year outputs leading to longer term outcomes and these should be
measurable and attainable. Outcomes such as improved infant and maternal mortality rates are
unlikely to change in one year and may not change over a three year period. Accordingly,
definition of measurable outputs which lead to improved infant and maternal mortality is
important. It is also important that the design of these interim outputs and their measurement is
carried out in partnership with Government.

8.4 PRSCs may be the only external operational modality which can get interaction between
different Government ministries on reforms. Monitoring implementation of the PMA is one
example where different ministries came together. Gender is another and infant and maternal
mortality a third. Again, this strength of the PRSC instrument needs to be used sparingly.



                                                - 23 -

8.5 Coordination of PRSCs should be carried out at the highest technical level of Government.
Earlier PRSCs were coordinated by the Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development
and other ministries did not recognize their right to do this. When the Office of the Prime
Minister took over coordination, other ministries were willing to recognize their right to
coordinate as this is the arrangement agreed within Government. They were also satisfied to
attend meetings arranged by the most senior civil servant, the Head of the Public Service. This
ensured that very senior officials, often Permanent Secretaries attended the various PRSC
meetings and ensured that the actions for which their ministry was responsible were taken.

8.6 It is critical that other development partners are involved in the preparation of the PRSC.
Much of the budget support from other development partners is contingent on PRSC approval by
the Bank's Board and about $134 million from UK, Ireland, Norway, Sweden and Germany is
explicitly linked to PRSC. The efforts of the Bank's PRSC4 team (and of earlier teams) to ensure
that development partners were supportive and knowledgeable of PRSC supported reforms was
critical to their success.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.       Assessment of the Objective, design and implementation of PRSC4

The key objective of PRSC4 was to support Uganda's second Poverty Eradication Action Plan
through the provision of direct funding to the budget (budget support). By providing financing
to the budget, the PRSC4 facilitated Government to achieve its development objective of reducing
headcount poverty, promoting equitable access to, and effective delivery of, key government
services. It also facilitated government to sharpen the focus on gender, infant and maternal
mortality, total fertility rates and results orientation. In fact the PRSC4 contributed to the
development of the National Integrated M&E Strategy (NIMES) as the framework to encourage
better coordination of hitherto duplicated M&E efforts and the development of a robust PEAP
monitoring and evaluation mechanism. The results orientation of the PRSC4 process meant that
there was a shift from process monitoring to outputs and outcomes. The focus shifted to have a
more medium term outlook rather than simple processes.

The focus on the four pillars of the PEAP (Creating a framework for Economic growth and
transformation; strengthening good governance and security; increasing the ability of the poor to
raise their incomes; and improving the quality of life of the poor) helped to improve the definition
of and focus on outcomes. Specific progress on each of these areas is not easy to quantify
because development is a long term process and is contributed to overtime by different actors.

However, like its predecessor PRSCs 1-3, PRSC4 did not directly take up the issue of enhancing
household incomes which is at the heart of the PEAP, apart from some aspects of service delivery
in agriculture.

2.       Government's own assessment of its performance

The PRSC4 was instrumental in supporting Government effort to develop an enhanced



                                                 - 24 -

coordination mechanism and focus on results. The shift of the coordination role of the PRSC
process to the Office of the Prime Minister helped to involve all Government stakeholders at a
more equal level in the dialogue on PRSC supported reforms.             This also strengthened the
coordination between Government and development partners. It also strengthened the dialogue
on the prior actions especially those dealing with corruption, the budget execution and
management, decentralisation and public service reform.

Unlike its predecessor PRSCs 1-3, the dialogue took a step further when the Office of the Prime
Minister presented a cabinet information note for guidance before the negotiations. This should be
the practice for future PRSCs as it improves the link and coordination between technocrats and
political leadership. More importantly this enables a better understanding of the PRSC process by
the country's top leadership and encourages them to provide guidance on how Government ought
to implement the reforms and also negotiate for the financial facility provided under the PRSC.
It is important to note that the PRSC process relies on existing Government capacities to
implement its objectives.     It would be helpful if some innovative ways of promoting and
supporting these capacities were to be developed in order to improve the effectiveness of the
instrument. There should be a medium term plan within the PRSC process to build the requisite
capacities in Government to effectively engage and manage the PRSC process. It will be useful if
future PRSCs are aligned with the framework of the Government performance measurement and
review system.

3.      Assessment of the Bank performance, effectiveness of their relationships and lessons
learned during the evolution and implementation

The PRSC 4 leadership was helpful in facilitating the Office of the Prime Minister to cope with
the transfer of the PRSC coordination, by participating in constructive engagement with the
Government team. The PRSC team promptly discussed mission objectives, schedules and aide
mémoires with the Government team which highly helped the Government to plan and coordinate
its stakeholders. The whole process including identification, appraisal and negotiation missions
was conducted in an environment of give and take and mutual agreement, with outcomes and
results as the driver of each undertaking.

The continuous team leadership of PRSC4 helped to build a strong relationship with Government
by knowing whom to deal with at every stage. Availability of in-country staff at the Bank office
helps to create continuous exchange on the PRSC process.

There are good lessons that came out of the PRSC 1-4 stocktaking exercise that need to be
picked in the development of future PRSCs.

4.      Other General Comments

PRSCs have been aligned with the budget cycle and the resource inflows have been highly
predictable. During PRSCs preparation, both Government and Development Partners discuss and
agree on a number of targets, prior actions and outcomes prior to the Board approval. ICR report
recognises progress in attainment set targets and outputs and shortcomings which Government



                                              - 25 -

must address.

Much as PRSC 4 was aligned with budget cycle, fundamental challenges continue to hamper the
implementation process of agreed targets and outputs. These include the following:

a.      Delayed disbursements. We have witnessed subsequent disbursement of PRSC falling in
the fourth quarter (April-June) every financial year and yet the GoU budget period starts in July.
There is disbursement lag of almost ten months. This affects greatly the achievements of the prior
agreed targets and outcomes.

b.      PRCS focuses on too many priorities (benchmarks/ prior actions which some times are
difficult to achieve and overshadow the positive effort of Government in a number of areas. We
recommend that it should be focused on few but key priority areas which are achievable and
leaves other areas to be addressed by other development partners as it is suggested under the
UJAS.

c.      Although the Policy results matrix for measuring each outcome and output and progress
on indicator have been agreed upon, Measuring of progress remains largely a challenge. Also, the
linkage of PRSC to efforts of other Bank projects and development partners in attainment of
poverty reduction and other benchmarks could further be improved.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

PRSC5 approved in January 2006 and PRSC6 currently under preparation addresses many of the
challenges outlined in the Government's assessment of PRSC4:

·       Several options to align PRSCs to the budget cycle to further increase predictability of
resource flows are being considered, with the aim of having PRSC disbursement decisions made
known before the budget is finalized.
·       The ongoing preparation of PRSC6 and PRSC7 is being undertaken in tandem with a
review of the prior actions and achievements under previous five PRSCs so as to enhance the
focus and realism of reforms that these operations will support. The sector reviews underpinning
the Annual PEAP Implementation Review are also expected to further prioritize sector
undertakings.
·       The Bank has put in place an Institutional Development Facility (IDF) grant to support the
Office of the Prime Minister in improving the monitoring and evaluation capacity. Other
development partners are also supporting the design and operationalization of the first Annual
PEAP Implementation Review slated for December 2006.

Endnote:

1/ Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy, issued in 2000, which in turn built on PEAP-1 of 1997.



                                                     - 26 -

2/ PRSC4 finance was released on the basis of the progress achieved by the date of Board approval: August 5,
2004.
3/ Bank-supported projects included, Local Government Development 2, Nutrition and Early Childhood
Development Project, Agriculture Research and Training Project, Road Development APLs, National Agricultural
Advisory Services Project, and two projects then under preparation; Private Sector Competitiveness 2 (approved in
2005) and Public Sector Performance Enhancement Project (approved in May, 2006).
4/ Second half of 2003 and first half of 2004.
5/ The overarching objective of PEAP 2 was "reduction of poverty headcount to 10% by year 2017". This would be
achieved through actions under four PEAP 2 pillars.
6/ Bearing in mind changes envisaged for the third PEAP then under preparation.
7/ UK, Netherlands, Ireland, Sweden and Germany.
8/ Prior Actions are the most critical of the actions taken by Government prior to Board approval and generate
heated discussion each year during appraisal and negotiations and, for a few of them, there are often last minute
efforts to achieve them.
9/ Progress on reforms were mostly known by the time the credit went to the Board. Results of this process are
reported in the second to last column of the Key Performance Indicators matrix in Annex 1 under the heading
"Progress during PRSC4". The 41 outputs agreed were mostly achieved.




                                                         - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


 Outcomes &       Progress    Target; Base   Progress under By PRSC-4            Progress         Current
   Outputs        Indicator   & Year                              (03/04)    during PRSC-4         Status
                                                 PRSC-3                                            and/or
                                                                                                 Comments
Outcome 1:
Efficient and
Equitable use
of public
resources
1.1                           Base/Target to In the annual   In the annual   Budget           For FY2004/5
Comprehensive                 be determined. public          public          performance as budget
MTEF                                         expenditure     expenditure     at Q3 was 87% performed at
Facilities                                   review, GOU     review, GOU     which is far     100.6%t, and
coherent budget                              has agreed with has agreed with below the target PAF allocation
management                                   donors on       donors on       of 95%.          increased to
                                             MTEF for        MTEF for                         37.5% of the
                                             2002/03-2004/0 2003/04-2005/0 Close to 100% budget, with a
                                             5 and has       6 and has       at end FY04.     disbursement
                                             executed        executed                         rate of 98% of
                                             2002/03 budget 2003/04 budget                    its approved
                                             through first   through four                     allocation
                                             two quarters    quarters
                                             consistent with consistent with
                                             agreed          agreed
                                             allocations.    allocations.
               # of sectors   Base: 3 in     Roads and       The JLO and     Agriculture:
               with           03/04          agriculture haveAgriculture     Output and
               output/outcome 5 in 04/05     incorporated    sectors         outcome
               targets        6 in 05/06     output and      articulate      measures were
                                             outcome         outcome and     developed in
                                             measures and    output measures2004/05-06/07
                                             targets in      and targets in  BFP on the
                                             2003/04-2005/0 2004/05-2006/0 basis of priority
                                             6 BFP.          7 BFP. Defense areas detailed in
                                                             to state        the MAAIF
                                                             outcomes and    Development
                                                             outputs arising Strategy and
                                                             from Defense    Investment
                                                             Review.         Plan. Strategy
                                                                             to transform the
                                                                             defense sector
                                                                             has been
                                                                             developed and
                                                                             White paper on
                                                                             Defense
                                                                             transformation
                                                                             has been
                                                                             approved by
               Budget/outturn Base:                          MoFPED will     Study
               deviation      10%-2003                       commission the commission's



                                                  - 28 -

                                 5% in 2004                       study on           draft report was
                                                                  resource flow      submitted.
                                                                  problems and
                                                                  propose a
                                                                  remedial action
                                                                  plan.
                 # of sectors       3 : 2004    MoFPED and        MoFPED and         TORs have
                 w/wage bill         6: 2005    MoPS have         MoPS and           been developed,
                                                agreed on an      sector             however the
                                                approach to       ministries         integration is to
                                                integrate wage implement an          be handled
                                                bill and staffing action plan to     within the
                                                plans in          integrate wage overall public
                                                expenditure       bill/staffing in pay policy
                                                programs.         three sector       review that is
                                                                  expenditure        ongoing.
                                                                  plans.
                 Share of ODA    Base- 03: 55% MoFPED has         MoFPED has         Share of ODA
                 through MTEF      2004: 60%    developed an      implemented        through MTEF
                                   2005: 65%    approach to       the plan and       increased from
                                   2006: 75%    integrate donor issued               55% in 2003 to
                                                projects in       additional         60% in 2004.
                                                MTEF.             guidelines for
                                                                  integration of
                                                                  donor resources
                                                                  in the
                                                                  2004/05-2006/0
                                                                  7 MTEF.
1.2              % of            Base/Target to MoFPED,           MoFPED and         FDS activities
Strengthened     non-conditional be determined MoLG and           MoLG               were
local ownership grants                          LGFC have         implement the successfully
of decentralized allocations.                   prepared          Fiscal             piloted in 15
public service                                  operational       Decentralizatio pilot local
                                                manuals and       n Strategy in      governments
                                                guidelines for    pilot districts in during the FY
                                                implementing      2003/04.           2003/04.
                                                the fiscal                           FDS
                                                decentralization                     implementation
                                                strategy (FDS).                      manuals were
                                                                                     developed and
                                                                                     disseminated in
                                                                                     the pilot local
                                                                                     governments.
                                                                                     A strategy for
                                                                                     rollout to all
                                                                                     local
                                                                                     governments
                                                                                     during FY
                                                                                     2004/05 was
                                                                                     developed.
1.3. Increased   # of sectors in    3 : 2004    MoPS,             MoPS, together A National           This was the
use of           which BA's are                 MoFPED,           with other         Survey is        first National
beneficiary      undertaken                     MoLG, OPM,        ministries,        ongoing and is Service



                                                      - 29 -

assessments to                                  line ministries establishes       expected to be Delivery Survey
promote public                                  and UBOS have service delivery completed by       to have
accountability.                                 redesigned the standards based July 2004. The investigated
                                                national service on national      Results were    service users'
                                                delivery survey. service delivery made available satisfaction
                                                                 survey results   in October,     with public
                                                                 and beneficiary 2004.            services.
                                                                 assessments.
1.4. Improved Ratio of pensionBase/target to    GoU has          MoFPED           A framework
funding and     fund             be determined appointed a       initiates study  for pension
coverage of     assets/GDP; #                   pension reform to assess cost     reform was
national        of pension                      task force to    implications of approved by
pension         scheme                          develop policy STG                cabinet.
schemes         participants                    recommendatio recommendatio
                                                ns and a         ns for a
                                                roadmap for      regulatory
                                                pension reform. framework for a
                                                                 liberalized
                                                                 pension sector.
1.5. A coherent Avg. no. of data Base : 300.000 MoFPED and       OPM in           A draft
strategy and    entries required per month      OPM have, in     consultation     National
clear division by districts.     (2002)         consultation     with MoFPED, Integrated
of labor                                        with other       MOLG, UBOS M&E strategy
established for                                 ministries,      and other        has been
M&E                                             prepared a       stakeholders,    developed and
                                                Cabinet          formulates a     articulated as
                                                Information      National         the framework
                                                Paper on         Integrated       for monitoring
                                                strengthening    M&E System       and evaluating
                                                in public sector (NIMES)          the revised
                                                management.      strategy.        PEAP.
1.6.            Monitoring of    Base: N/A                       MGLSD to         The revision of National
Implications of National         New policy                      initiate the     NGP is in       Gender Policy
gender          Gender Policy implemented                        revision of the progress. A      with its Action
inequality for  benchmarks       -2004.                          National         national        Plan revised but
growth and                                                       Gender Policy. consultative      was not
development                                                                       workshop and approved by
addressed in                                                                      consultations   Parliament
policy and                                                                        with selected   under PRSC 4
budgets                                                                           local
                                                                                  governments
                                                                                  have been
                                                                                  carried out.

                                                                                  A local
                                                                                  consultant has
                                                                                  been sourced
                                                                                  and an
                                                                                  international
                                                                                  consultant has
                                                                                  also been
                                                                                  identified to
                                                                                  support the



                                                     - 30 -

                                                                           Local
                                                                           Consultant and
                                                                           enrich the
                                                                           process with
                                                                           international
                                                                           experience.
.                Sector BFPs      4 BFP's-                 Budget          The process of The guidelines
                 address priority 2005/06                  performance     developing       done and were
                 gender issues    (Education,              report for      gender and       part of the
                                  Water, Health            2005/06         equity           budget circular
                                  and Agriculture          addresses       budgeting        in 2005.
                                                           gender          guidelines has
                                                           outcomes.       been initiated. Leadership of
                                                           Implementation A call for        Ministry of
                                                           of guidelines   proposals from Finance
                                                           broadened to    competent firmsPlanning and
                                                           other priority  to develop the   Economic
                                                           sectors         guidelines was Development
                                                                           advertised in    helped make
                                                                           the print media progress.
                                                                           in March 2004.
                 Gender/Growth Base/Target to              MoFPED and      A sharpened      Done
                 strategy         be determined.           MGLSD carry gender focus in However,
                 developed                                 out analysis of the new PEAP capacity
                                                           gender and      formulation      in Ministry of
                                                           growth linkages through          GENDER,
                                                           in Uganda.      improved         Labour and
                                                                           analytical and   Social
                                                                           policy oriented Development to
                                                                           work of the      lead gender
                                                                           gender           related efforts
                                                                           dimensions of    needs
                                                                           poverty and      strengthening
                                                                           growth linkages
                                                                           is on going
1.7. Policy and Strengthened      Population               Revised         Road map to      Revision of the
budgets address IMM Task          Policy review            National        revise the policyNational
the implications Force work       done by 2004.            Population      in place.        Population
of rapid         supported underQtly Task Force            Policy          Currently,       Policy is
population       MoFPED.          meeings.                 adopted/Enhancresource           expected to be
growth/high                                                ed advocacy by mobilization to completed in
infant and                                                 Population Sec fund this road    June 2006.
maternal                                                   and MGLSD.      map underway.
mortality for
growth.                                                                    MGLSD has
                                                                           worked closely
                                                                           with IMM task
                                                                           force under
                                                                           MoFPED to
                                                                           produce a report
                                                                           on the situation
                                                                           and a way
                                                                           forward on



                                                   - 31 -

                                                                                 IMM in
                                                                                 Uganda. To
                                                                                 complete
                                                                                 Government
                                                                                 efforts on IMM,
                                                                                 the MGLSD has
                                                                                 developed a
                                                                                 comprehensive
                                                                                 strategy on
                                                                                 community
                                                                                 mobilization
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 empowerment
                                                                                 which will
                                                                                 address
                                                                                 behavior and
                                                                                 attitudinal
                                                                                 aspects of
                                                                                 population
                                                                                 growth and
                                                                                 IMM among
                                                                                 others.
Outcome 2:
Improved
Capacity and
performance of
the public
service
2.1. Pay levels Pay for public   Raised by 33% MoPS and          MoPS and        15 bn U         The pay reform
for GOU         servants grade in real terms    MoFPED have MoFPED effect shillings have         strategy is in
professional/ma U5 and above.                   agreed on targetsalary           been allocated place and
nagerial staff                                  salary           adjustments for within the FY   largely adhered
are competitive Attaining fiscal                adjustments in FY 2003/04        2004/05 MTEF to. However
and consistent and pay targets.                 line with pay    consistent with vote ceilings.  the process of
with controlled                                 reform strategy, the pay reform Salary           establishing
expansion in                                    and associated strategy and      adjustments for targets and a
public                                          wage bill        MTEF.           FY 2003/04      strategy to
administration/s                                reflected in                     consistent with implement
ervice                                          MTEF.                            the pay reform these targets
                                                                                 strategy and    has yet to take
                                                                                 MTEF were       root.
                                                                                 effected under
                                                                                 Circular
                                                                                 Standing
                                                                                 Instruction No.
                                                                                 2 of 2003.
2.2. Personnel # of employees Base/Target to MoPS                MoPS will have The personnel The files have
management      reported outside be determined. committed to a complete          files at MoPS   been updated.
and payroll     the payroll.                    strategy for     personnel files have been       The payroll has
systems                                         modernizing      for one of the  updated.        been cleaned
accurately                                      personnel and    four pilot sites                up. With
reflect actual                                  payroll          as a preliminaryThe action plan development
GoU                                             management,      step for        has been        partners



                                                     - 32 -

employment                                  compatible with Integrated       prepared and     support, the
and staff costs.                            IFMS.            Personnel and will be            implementation
                                                             Payroll System implemented in of the IPPS will
                                                             (IPPS)          FY 2004/05.      be in a position
                                                             implementation                   to start
                                                             . The
                                                             inter-ministeria
                                                             l task force,
                                                             headed by
                                                             MoPS and
                                                             MOH will
                                                             prepare an
                                                             action plan to
                                                             address issues
                                                             of health
                                                             workers payroll.
2.3. Public     Adequate        Target:     MoPS has         MoPS has        The review of    The revamped
sector reform   funding in      2003-2004:  presented to     initiated a     the new phase PSRP has been
program linked MTEF             USHS 1.9 bn Cabinet for      participatory   of Public        approved by
to PEAP and                                 approval a       review,         Service Reform Cabinet in
sector plans                                strategy for the prioritization  Programme        March 2006.
                                            new phase of     and costing of started in May Implementation
                                            the public       the new phase 2004.              has started with
                                            service reform of the Public                      interim support
                                            program.         Sector Reform                    from
                                                             Program.                         development
                                                                                              partners and
                                                                                              will be in full
                                                                                              swing during
                                                                                              FY 2006/07.
Outcome 3:
Strengthened
Financial
Management
Practices
3.1. Legal and Revised          Annual      Enactment of     MoFPED          Treasury
institutional   regulations and updates.    the Public       revises Treasuryaccounting
framework       instructions.               Finance and      and Accounting instructions
updated and                                 Accountability Instructions for have been
implementation                              Bill.            the Public      revised
commences.                                  MoFPED has       Finance and     continuously.
                                            revised treasury Accountability but only issued
                                            instructions and Act (PFAA).     in 2005 due to
                                            financial                        the fact that it
                                            regulations.                     had to
                                                                             incorporate the
                                                                             changes
                                                                             required by the
                                                                             computerization
                                                                             of processes as
                                                                             a result of the
                                                                             implementation
                                                                             of the IFMS.



                                                 - 33 -

                 Acc Gen's    New structured                  The proposals Restructuring
                 office       adopted Fy                      of the new        proposal has
                 restructured 05/06                           organizational been finalized.
                                                              structures of the
                                                              AccGen's
                                                              Office is
                                                              approved by the
                                                              Acc. Gen and
                                                              top
                                                              management of
                                                              MoFPED.
3.2. IFMS        IFMS         FY 05/06       MoFPED has       6 ministries      MoFPED:
replaces current implemented. All ministries approved the     (MoFPED,          Being
manual system                 & 10 Las       design of IFMS,MoES, MoH,          implemented in
to ensure                                    began            MoWLE,            6 ministries and
complete,                                    contracting      MoWHC,            4 local
accurate and                                 external         MAAIF) and 4 governments.
timely financial                             suppliers and    local authorities MoWLE: IFMS
reporting.                                   deployed         pilot the         installed in the
                                             additional       accounting        Ministry &
                                             accounting staff module of         being piloted.
                                             (graduates) to   IFMS.
                                             assist in                          MoES: Back
                                             implementation                     log of earlier
                                             .                                  transactions
                                                                                cleared on line.
                                                                                Gone on line
                                                                                for current
                                                                                transactions
                                                                                like
                                                                                procurement,
                                                                                payment of
                                                                                allowances and
                                                                                paying of
                                                                                suppliers.
                                                                                Permanent
                                                                                Secretary
                                                                                approves budget
                                                                                warrants on
                                                                                line.

                                                                                Agriculture: all
                                                                                modules of
                                                                                IFMS are in
                                                                                operation,
                                                                                except the Stock
                                                                                Control
                                                                                Modules
3.3. Lower       Audit        FY 05/06 All   MoFPED has       MoFPED issues TM for 1997/98
fiduciary risk   Committees   ministries     issued the       revised TM for is ready and
and              appointed                   Treasury         1997/98,          will be laid
strengthened                                 Memorandum demonstrating before
public financial                             for 1997/98,     appropriate       parliament in



                                                  - 34 -

accountability                                   demonstrating action was         July 2004. TM
cycle in central                                 appropriate     taken. 1998/99 for 1998/99 and
and local                                        action has been and 1999/00      1999/00 are to
government                                       taken.          PAC reports      be laid in
                                                                 tabled in        Parliament
                                                                 Parliament.      during the FY
                                                                                  2004/05.
3.4.                 Revised         FY 05/06                    Bill on the                      Process in this
Strengthened       legislation                                   independence of                  area needs
external audit                                                   the Office of the                speeding up or
structures and                                                   Auditor                          else the
practices and                                                    General is                       fiduciary risks
enhanced                                                         being reviewed.                  will remain
quality of audit                                                                                  high
services
rendered
                Aud Genl issuesFY 05/06:         OAG, MoFPED OAG starts           OAG has         Budget
                its audit reports 100% of        and MoLG haveplanning for thehandled audits constraints and
                within statutory financial       agreed on an    implementation of 600            delays limited
                requirement of statements        approach for    of the agreed    sub-county      the
                9 months in       prepared and   sub-county      approach for     accounts by use implementation
                compliance        submitted are  government      audit of         of WB Local     of this agreed
                with intl. audit audited timely. audits.         sub-county LAs Government        approach.
                standards                                        on a sustainable Development
                                                                 basis with its   Programme
                                                                 own staff        assistance. The
                                                                 component.       office has
                                                                                  planned to set
                                                                                  aside Shs 26
                                                                                  million every
                                                                                  year from its
                                                                                  budget to
                                                                                  continue audit
                                                                                  of sub-county
                                                                                  accounts on a
                                                                                  sustainable
                                                                                  basis using its
                                                                                  own staff with
                                                                                  effect from
                                                                                  PRSC5 (FY
                                                                                  2004/05)
                                                                                  onwards.
                                                 OAG has         OAG carries      OAG :
                                                 developed and out staff          Is carrying out
                                                 implemented     capacity         staff capacity
                                                 capacity        building         building
                                                 building        programs,        programmes as
                                                 programs for    strengthens      expected.
                                                 central and     capacity to      Has
                                                 local           manage           strengthened
                                                 governments     contracting out the capacity to
                                                                 of audits and    manage
                                                                 develops guides contracting out



                                                      - 35 -

                                                                    for new audit   of audits
                                                                    techniques in   Has developed
                                                                    planning,       guides for new
                                                                    quality control audit techniques
                                                                    and VFM         in planning and
                                                                    auditing.       quality control.
Outcome 4:
Strengthened
Rule of Law,
transparency,
detection and
sanctioning of
corrupt
practices

4.1. Improved Case backlog        Base/target to   Satisfactory     Satisfactory
access to justice reduced;        be determined implementation implementation
and increased     Pending                          of undertakings of undertakings
efficiency and legislative                         agreed in the    agreed in the
effectiveness in reform enacted                    JLO sector       JLO sector
the                                                review in June review in June
administration                                     2002 and         and confirmed
of justice, law                                    confirmed by     by December
and order.                                         the November 2004.
                                                   2002 review.
4.2.              Line ministries All social sectorDEI has          DEI tables the Principles to    Law passed
Strengthened      report on       ministries       presented to     amendment to amendment to
detection of      anti-corruption report by 05/06, Cabinet          Prevention of   the prevention
corrupt           performances    50% by           principles of theCorruption Act of Corruption
practices                         2004/05.         Prevention of    in Parliament. have been
                                                   Corruption Bill.                 submitted to
                                                                                    Cabinet
                                                   DEI has
                                                   consulted
                                                   stakeholders on
                                                   whistleblower
                                                   protection
                                                   legislation.
                  # of complaints Base/target to                    MoPS table the Principles of
                  on denied       be determined.                    principles of   access to
                  access to                                         access to       government
                  information                                       government      information
                                                                    information to tabled before
                                                                    Cabinet.        Parliament in
                                                                                    March 2004.
4.3. Greater      # of            240              IGG has issued The Inspector     A critical
effectiveness in discrepancies    declarations/yea to appointing    General (IG)    examination of
sanctioning       between         r                authorities      completes       information
corrupt acts      declaration and                  letters for      analysis of     submitted by all
by key groups verification of                      disciplinary     declared assets Ministries on
of leaders.       key leaders                      action against   and informationtheir assets,
                  asset not                        Ministers,       collected from income and
                  verified.                        Presidential     key categories liabilities was



                                                         - 36 -

                                            Advisors,       of leaders,      completed.
                                            Permanent       initiates asset  Critical
                                            Secretaries,    verification,    examination of
                                            Directors and   investigates all declarations of
                                            Uganda          complaints       the 32
                                            Revenue         from the public Permanent
                                            Authority       received by his Secretaries has
                                            officials who   office by        been completed.
                                            have failed to  November 1,
                                            declare their   2003 and         Critical
                                            income, assets presents a time examination of
                                            and liabilities bound action     23 Presidential
                                            and appropriate plan for the     Advisors has
                                            action has been implementation been carried
                                            taken           of the           out.
                                            accordance withleadership code.
                                            the law.
4.4. Improved % of entities  10% in 2003/04 Enactment of    By May 2004      Harmonized      Drastically
accountability with approved 20% in 2004/05 Procurement     the Ministry of draft local      reduced budget
and              procurement 50% in         Bill with       Local            government      for
effectiveness of plans.      2005/06.       provisions      Government       procuring       implementing
public                                      ensuring        will have        regulations     procurement
procurement                                 competition in submitted to      were produced reform will
                                            selection of    Cabinet the      and submitted stretch out the
                                            third party     draft Local      to Cabinet in   implementation
                                            procurement     Government       May 2004.       process
                                            agents          Procurement &
                                                            Disposal of      A draft cabinet
                                                            Assets           paper
                                                            Regulations andcontaining
                                                            proposals to     amendment
                                                            amend the        proposals to the
                                                            Local            sections of the
                                                            Government       Local
                                                            Act,             Governments
                                                            particularly on Act relating to
                                                            those issues     appointment
                                                            relating to the and dismissal of
                                                            appointment      local
                                                            and removal of government
                                                            the tender boardtender board
                                                            members in the members was
                                                            local            also produced
                                                            government.      and submitted
                                                            PPDA             to Cabinet in
                                                            implements the May 2004.
                                                            capacity
                                                            building
                                                            strategy for
                                                            central and
                                                            local
                                                            government.
Outcome 5:



                                                 - 37 -

Improved civil
society
participation
5.1. A better     NGO policy                    OPM, MoIA       MoIA and OPMNGO                The studies
operational       adopted by                    and NGOs have in consultation amendment bill aimed at
environment for2006                             agreed on the   with other     is before       informing
government and                                  draft NGO bill. ministries and Parliament.     decisions
NGO                                                             NGOs initiate                  regarding the
partnerships                                                    the            Consultations   NGOs sector
                                                                development of are underway    were completed.
                                                                and NGO's      with NGO        However, the
                                                                policy.        sector          Amendment
                                                                               stakeholders    Bill was not
                                                                               (CSOs, Donors viewed on with
                                                                               & Local         favor by the t
                                                                               Government) to NGOs .
                                                                               improve on the TheNGOs put
                                                                               amendment       pressure on
                                                                               Bill.           Parliament and
                                                                                               the bill was
                                                                               2 studies       stayed
                                                                               (finance by EU) throughout the
                                                                               on the Local    PRSC 4 period.
                                                                               Government
                                                                               NGO             Efforts to draft
                                                                               Regulatory      an NGOs policy
                                                                               Framework and was opposed by
                                                                               the             the security
                                                                               Coordination & organs that sit
                                                                               monitoring of   on the NGOs
                                                                               NGOs have       board. NGOs
                                                                               been            still seem to be
                                                                               accomplished to considered an
                                                                               enhance the     internal security
                                                                               NGO Capacity issue
                                                                               study that was
                                                                               financed by the
                                                                               WB.
5.2. Standard     Access rate to                                OPM and                        Discussions did
methodologies public services                                   MoFPED has                     take place and
for civil society as a result of                                facilitated                    the task is being
monitoring of     government                                    discussions                    led by CSOs.
government        action on civil                               with CSO                       Since this
performance       society                                       regarding                      component was
                  information                                   monitoring and                 discontinued
                                                                dissemination                  under PRSC 5
                                                                methodologies                  the monitoring
                                                                for effective                  tool was drafted
                                                                linkage with                   under a Trust
                                                                policy                         Fund.
                                                                processes.
5.3. A            Local          50% of the LGs Local           MoLG and       The HPPG was The HPPG has
harmonized        government     utilizing the  governments     local          revised and     been illustrated



                                                     - 38 -

framework for authorities      framework for have             government       pre-tested after and will be
community        plans reflect planning and   implemented     authorities      wide              translated into
participation in community     budgeting by   the harmonized implement and consultations         9 local
service delivery priorities.   2006.          participatory   monitor the      between           languages.
                                              planning guide performance of February and         Further
                                              (HPPG) for      the              September         simplification
                                              lower local     participatory    2003.             of the HPPG
                                              council.        planning and                       (pictorial
                                                              budgeting        The process of presentation,
                                                              framework        illustrating the figures,
                                                              (HPPG).          HPPG was          diagrams etc)
                                                                               completed in      especially for
                                                                               June and is       Parish and
                                                                               currently         lower levels is
                                                                               undergoing        planned in the
                                                                               mass              near future. It
                                                                               reproduction.     has been rolled
                                                                                                 out in all
                                                                               Nationwide roll districts with
                                                                               out is planned support of
                                                                               to commence in LGDP 2, DDP
                                                                               July 2004.        and a Trust
                                                                               Requisite HPPGFund. However
                                                                               trainer modules monitoring of
                                                                               were developed the
                                                                               in May 2004       implementation
                                                                               and are being     was inadequate
                                                                               mass produced. due to financial
                                                                                                 and human
                                                                               A cadre of 25     resource
                                                                               HPPG national constraints on
                                                                               facilitators has the part of
                                                                               been trained
                                                                               ready for rollout
                                                                               and follow-up
                                                                               activities
Outcome 6:
Improved
Enviornmental
Sustainability
6.1.Establishme Implementation Base: n/a      MoFPED has      ENR- SWG         Developed the NEMA has not
nt of a          of ENR Sector SIP agreed and begun gradually clarifies the    vision,           been funded
sustainable and Investment Planfunded by 2006 increasing      composition      identified and    under MTEF as
integrated       MTEF NEMA                    funding for     and vision of    agreed on the     exxpected
approach to      funding                      NEMA within the ENR sector. composition of
environmental                                 MTEF.                            core
management                                                    At least 25% of stakeholders of
                                                              NEMA's           the SWAP.
                                                              operating costs Plans to recruit
                                                              to be covered by sector facilitator
                                                              MTEF.            to coordinate
                                                                               the
                                                                               development of



                                                   - 39 -

                                                                            the ENR SWAP
                                                                            investment plan
                                                                            are complete.
6.2. Established Distance         Base: less than          MWLE ensures NFA was
and functioning traveled to       0.7 km 2000              NFP              launched in
agencies for     collect firewood Less than 0.6            implementation April 2004,
forest resource                   km 06                    through:         Board member
management                                                 effective launch in place,
                                                           and monitoring Executive
                                                           of NFA and       Director
                                                           adequate         appointed and
                                                           capacity         recruitment of
                                                           building in FID other staff being
                                                                            implemented.

                                                                            FID functional
                                                                            analysis by July
                                                                            2004.
Outcome 7:
Improved
Enabling
Enviornment
for Transition
from from
Subsistence to
Commerical
Agriculture
7.1.             % of budgets     Base/Target to
Strengthened     aligned to PMA be determined.
coordination of
PMA
implementation
7.2.Increased    Access to and    Access 26% in            MoPS and         Cabinet memo The local
access to and    satisfaction     2000                     MLG submits      on local        government
relevance of     with adv.        36% in 2004.             local            government      restructuring
agricultural                                               government       restructuring   plan was
advisory                                                   restructuring    submitted to    approved by
services                                                   plan for CabinetCabinet in May Government,
                                                           approval.        2004.           but did not
                                                                                            adequately
                                                                                            address the
                                                                                            requirements of
                                                                                            the production
                                                                                            departments.
                                                                                            Delayering
                                                                                            extension
                                                                                            workers
                                                                                            remains slow.
                 Services by      Satisfaction             Cabinet has      The National    Parliament has
                 men/women; % 34% in 2000                  approved the     Agricultural    approved the
                 improved         36% in 2004              National         Research Bill   Bill and the
                 technology                                Agricultural     has been        National
                 adopted.                                  Research Bill    approved by     Agricultural



                                                   - 40 -

                                                                                Cabinet,         Research
                                                                                published in the Council has
                                                                                gazette and      been established
                                                                                submitted to     as a first step in
                                                                                Parliament for implementing
                                                                                consideration. the subsequent
                                                                                                 Act.
7.3.            # of branches    285 in 2004 No direct         BOU in           MoTTI: Review
Strengthened    outside of 3                  government       consultation     of Cooperative
micro finance   major cities of  447 by 2007 credit programs with               act completed,
and rural       MDIs, other                   reestablished.   stakeholders,    Draft submitted
financial       licensed FU's                                  adopts           to MoFPED for
markets         and SACCOs                                     regulations for certificate of
                and other Tier 4                               implementation financial
                MFI's                                          of the           implication.
                providing                                      Microfinance
                satisfactory                                   Deposit taking
                financial perf                                 Institutions Act.
                                                               MoTTI drafts
                                                               for submission
                                                               to Parliament
                                                               revisions to the
                                                               Cooperative Act
                                                               that strengthen
                                                               the framework
                                                               for SACCOs in
                                                               line with
                                                               international
                                                               standards.
7.4. Reduced    Km road in      700 km by 2006PMA steering     MoWHC has        Draft Ready
agro-processing good repair                   committee has drafted 10 year and awaiting
and marketing                                 reviewed         District Road    certificate of
constraints                                   recommendatio Investment          financial
                                              ns on the role ofProgram for      implication
                                              UCDA and         submission to    from MoFPED
                                              agreed on        Cabinet
                                              actions to be
                                              taken.
                Coffee          20% in 2004                    MAAIF and        MAAIF is to      The proposed
                undergrades     10% in 2006                    UCDA             present the      reforms were
                                                               conducts         proposed         reviewed and
                                                               broader          UCDA reforms discussed with
                                                               consultations onto the PMA        slow progress
                                                               the UCDA         Steering         on
                                                               review report    Committee        implementation
                                                               and agree with Meeting in         . Subsequent
                                                               PMA steering     September        work has been
                                                               Committee on 2004.                undertaken as
                                                               reforms.                          part of the
                                                                                                 DTIS.
                                                               PMA Steering PMA Steering Further work
                                                               Committee        Committee to     has been
                                                               reviews          review the       undertaken on



                                                   - 41 -

                                                                recommendatio policy and            the fish sector
                                                                ns on the         regulatory        as part of the
                                                                policy, legal     recommendatio DTIS.
                                                                and regulatory ns at its
                                                                environment formeeting of
                                                                the fish and      September
                                                                maize sectors     2004.
                Value of                                        MTTI drafts       Review
                finances issues                                 Warehouse         completed,
                against                                         Receipts Bill     waiting for
                warehouse                                       (WRB) for         certificate of
                receipts                                        tabling in        financial
                                                                Parliament.       implication in
                                                                                  order to present
                                                                                  the Bill to
                                                                                  Parliament.
7.5.Strengthene % of Land      By June 2006.                    MoWLE             Computerizatio
d tenure        Register       LIS Pilot                        initiates         n of land
security,       rehabilitated  completed in 1                   rehabilitation of registration of
particularly                   District by Dec                  land registry     records started
greater access                 2006.                            record and        in FY 2003/04.
to and control                                                  designs a LIS. The design of
over land by                                                                      LIS is ready for
women                                                                             Ministers
                                                                                  approval.
                % of land      24% in                           MOWLE, JSC Members of
                conflict       previous year in                 complete          Land Tribunals
                resolved       2004,                            appointment of have been
                               50% in 2006                      members Land appointed in 56
                                                                Tribunals.        districts.
                Land titles/   2 parishes in   MoWLE has        MoWLE             Systematic
                Ownership      2004,           finalized        conducts pilots demarcation is
                certificate    24 parishes in proposals for     of demarcation being piloted in
                issued, by     2006            pilot schemes to and               three districts of
                gender                         strengthen       certification in Ntungamo,
                                               common           locations         Masaka, &
                                               property         representing      Soroti. Six
                                               management       different land    (Wakiso/Mukon
                                               systems          use systems.      o, Mbale,
                                                                                  Kampala, Apac,
                                                                                  Kibale, Iganga)
                                                                                  more districts
                                                                                  have been
                                                                                  selected.
                Land titles    Baseline survey                  MoWLE             Procurement of
                and/or         will provide                     initiates         consultant to
                certificates   benchmark data                   development of develop the
                registered by  for evaluation                   evaluation tool framework to
                gender.        of progress                      for LSSP to       evaluate LSSP
                Increase in                                     provide baselineis underway.
                awareness of                                    assessment of     Technical
                women's land                                    women's land evaluation of
                rights.                                         rights,           the bids has



                                                     - 42 -

                                                              including       been completed
                                                              awareness level.
Outcome 8:
Universal
Primary
Education
Achieved
8.1.Improved   Pupil : teacher 55: 1 in 03/04 Satisfactory    To be reported Census was
quality of     ratio                          implementation on at the        conducted in
teaching                                      of undertakings November 2004 March/April
                                              agreed in the   Education       2004 and
                                              education sectorSector Review. analysis of data
                                              review in April                 underway.
                                              2002 and
                                              confirmed in
                                              October 2002
                                              review
8.2.Increased  Pupil : core    3 : 1 in 03/04                                                  Current ratio is
access to      textbook ratio                                                                  2:1. Procured
learning       (P3-P7)                                                                         instructional
materials                                                                                      materials under
                                                                                               cycle 9,
                                                                                               covering all
                                                                                               subjects and
                                                                                               classes,
                                                                                               including non
                                                                                               book materials
                                                                                               for P1 and P2.
8.3.Improved   Pupil:          94:1 in 03/04                                                   Current status
learning       classroom ratio                                                                 79:1. Major
environment                                                                                    focus on 10
                                                                                               districts with
                                                                                               worst PCR.
Outcome 9:
Reduced child
mortality,
better
maternal
health and
progress
against
HIV/AIDS,
Malaria and
other diseases.
9.1.Reduction  HIV prevalence Base- 03: 6.2% HIV prevalence Prevalence        The ongoing
of HIV         by age/sex      Target-04:     rate reduced to halted at 6.2% sero survey will
prevalence                     5.5%           5.8 %                           provide most
among adult                                                                   recent
population.                                                                   prevalence
                                                                              rates.
9.2.Increased  % of SDP with Base/03: 20%                     Deliveries in   This does not
use of health  EmOC            2004                           public and      include
facilities for % of deliveries Target: 20%                    PNFP units is   deliveries in the



                                                    - 43 -

delivery          in health                                      20%.             private health
                  facilities.                                                     facilities.
9.4.Maintenanc DPT3               Base/03: 84%  65% of children Current                           87% during
e of the current immunization     2004 target:  less than 1 year coverage is                      2003/04.
level of DPT3     coverage        20%           have receieved 84%
immunization                                    DPT3
coverage                                        vaccination.
9.5.Increased     % SDP with                                     Contraceptive
use of family     FP; CPR, TFR                                   prevalence rate
planning                                                         is at 23%
9.6. Improved Maternal                                           Satisfactory     Child health
maternal and      anemia/U-5                                     efforts are beingdays and Vit A,
child nutrition stunting                                         made to further iron and folic
                                                                 improve current acid
                                                                 maternal and     supplementatio
                                                                 child nutrition. n for children
                                                                                  and mothers,
                                                                                  strengthening
                                                                                  growth
                                                                                  promotion
                                                                                  within districts
                                                                                  among others
                                                                                  are being used
                                                                                  to improve
                                                                                  maternal and
                                                                                  child nutrition.
Outcome 10:
Improved
Access to
Functional
Water and
Sanitation
Servies
10.1.Increased Reduced            Base 03/04: 9                  FY 2003/04 : 9
access to safe    collection time min/30min                      min/28 min
water             in urban/rural  Target 05/06:
                  areas           5 min/25 min
10.2.Improve      % of HH who     Base 03/04:                    Urban/Rural
Hygienic          practices hand 10%                             2003/04:
practices         washing with    Target 05/06:                  $150/$50
                  soap after      $140/$
                  defecation.
10.4.Clean        # of SDPs       50% in 04                      FY 2003/04
water to all      without clean   25% in 05
health facilities water           0% in 06                       50%




                                                      - 44 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Component               Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                        US$ million                                Appraisal
                                            US$ million
          IDA                    150                155.30                  100


Total Project Cost               150                155.30                  100
Total Financing Required         150                155.30                  100


Project Financing by Component (US$ million)

Component          Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                                                   Appraisal
                  Bank                      Govt                  CoFBankGovtCoFBankG
                                                                  ovtCoF
Budget            150                       0                     0155.300010000




                                             - 45 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 46 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               October-2003             21    2 economist, 2 monitoring and
                                              evaluation specialist, 3 public
                                              sector specialist, 3 procurement
                                              specialist, 1 financial
                                              management specialist, 2 rural
                                              development specialist, 2 private
                                              sector specialist, 1 health
                                              specialist, 2 land specialist, 1
                                              operation officer and 2 TTL.


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               March 2004               23    2 Senior Economist, 3 public
                                              sector specialist, 2
                                              procurement specialist, 1
                                              monitoring and evaluation
                                              specialist, 1 financial and
                                              private sector specialist, 1
                                              financial management
                                              specialist, 2 land specialist, 2
                                              agriculture and rural
                                              development specialist, 1
                                              environmental specialist, 1
                                              road sector specialist, 1
                                              education specialist, 2 health
                                              specialist, 1 gender
                                              specialist, 1 safe gurad
                                              specialist, TTL and one
                                              operations officer.


 Supervision
               Dec                        2
               2004-February                  TTL and 1 operation officer
               2004


 ICR
               March 2004-June           3     1 Economist, 3 consultants
               2004



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)



                                               - 47 -

 Identification/Preparation
 Appraisal/Negotiation                           202                        1031.74
 Supervision                                      55                         149.7
 ICR
 Total
Note: appraisal/negotiation includes identification and preperation as well.




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Miovic, P. (2004), Poverty Reduction Support Credits in Uganda: Results of a Stocktaking, May
2004

Uganda, MOFPED (2002) Revised Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP-2), May 2000

Uganda, MOFOED (2004) Third Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP-3), approved by
Uganda's Cabinet as the national framework for development, November 2004

World Bank (2004), ICR for the Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit, Report P074081, draft
of June 4, 2004 ­ after reviews, issued formally as Report No. 28838, March 10. 2005

World Bank (2004), Uganda: Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Operation, Report No.
29287-UG, August 5, 2004

World Bank/IMF (2005), IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note (on PEAP III), Report No. 32698-UG,
June 23, 2005

World Bank et al. (2005), (Multi-donor) Joint Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Uganda
(2005-09), Report No. 34310-UG, December 14, 2005

World Bank (2005), Uganda: Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Operation, Report No.
34382-UG, December 13, 2005




                                               - 51 -

- 52 -

