                                             Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                        ReportNo. 29287-UG


                      INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                FOR A

                                        PROPOSEDGRANT

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 102.6MILLION

                                (US$150 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                  TO


                                   THE REPUBLICOF UGANDA


                                                FORA


                  FOURTHPOVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION


                                            August 5,2004




HumanDevelopment 1
CountryDepartment4
AfricaRegion




This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                                         Government FiscalYear: July 1-June 30
                                                        Currency Equivalents:
                Currency Unit=Uganda Shilling (Ush): US$1=Ush1,829 (May 31,2004)


                                             ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AtDB     African DevelopmentBank                                  MoH        Ministry of Health
AG       Auditor General                                          MoI        Ministry ofInformation
AGO      Accountant General'sOffice                               MSEI       Minister of State for Ethicsand Integrity
ARV      Anti-retroviral                                          MoIA       Ministry of Internal Affairs
BFP      BudgetFrameworkPaper                                     MOJCS      Ministry of Justiceand ConstitutionalAffairs
BoU      BankofUganda                                             MoLG       Ministry of Local Govemment
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                              MOPS       Ministry ofPublic Service
ccs      Commitmentand Control System                             MoTTI      Ministry of Tourism,Trade and Industry
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment              MoWHC      Ministry ofWorks, Housingand Communications
CPAR     Country ProcurementAssessmentReport                      MoWLE      Ministry ofWater, Lands andEnvironment
DEI      Directorateof Ethicsand Integrity                        MTCS       Medium Term Competitiveness Strategy
DFID     Department for InternationalDevelopment(UK)              MTEF       Medium Term ExpenditureFramework
DHS      Demographic and HealthSurvey                             NAADS      National Agricultural Advisory Services
DRB      DomesticRelationsBill                                    NAPE       National AssessmentofProgress in Education
DWD      DirectorateofWater Development                           NARO       National Agricultural ResearchOrganization
DWO      District Water Offices                                   NGO        Non-GovemmentalOrganization
DWST     District Water and SanitationTeam                        NEMA       NationalEnvironmentalManagementAgency
EFA      Educationfor All                                         h 4 A      National HealthAssembly
EFMPII   SecondEconomicand FinancialManagementProject             NIMES      National IntegratedM&E System
EHE      EnvironmentalHealthDepartment                            NPV        Net-Present-Value
EIA      EnvironmentalImpactAssessment                            NSDS       National ServiceDelivery Survey
EMIS     EducationManagementInformationSystems                    NSSF       National Social SecurityFund
EPI      ExpandedProgramfor Immunization                          Nwsc       National Water and Sewerage Corporation
ESIP     EducationSector InvestmentPlan                           OAG        Office of Auditor General
ESR      EducationSector Review                                   OPD        Out Patient Department
ESW      EconomicSector Work                                      OPM        Office of the Prime Minister
FID      ForestryInspectionDivision                               OOB        Output OrientedBudgeting
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                                   PAF        PovertyAction Fund
GNI      Gross National Income                                    PEAP       PovertyEradicationAction Plan
GoU      Government of Uganda                                     PCC        Policy Coordination Committee
HIPC     HeavilyIndebtedPoor Countries                            PER        Public ExpenditureReview
HIV      HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus                               PEMCOM     Public ExpenditureManagementCommittee
HPPG     HarmonizedParticipatoryPlanningGuide                      PMA       Planfor Modernization of Agriculture     I

HSSP     Health Sector StrategicPlan                               PNFP      PrivateNot-For-Profit
ICC      ImplementationCoordination Conunittee                     PPA       ParticipatoryPoverty Assessment
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation                       PPDA      Public Procurementand Disposalof Asset Authority
IDP      Internally DisplacedPerson                                PRGF      PovertyReductionand GrowthFacility
IFMS     IntegratedFinancialManagement Systems                     PRSC      PovertyReductionSupport Credit
IGG      InspectorGeneralof Government                             PROST     PensionReformOperationalStrategies and Tools
IMF      InternationalMonetaryFund                                 PSIA      Povertyand SocialImpact Assessment
IMM      Infantand MaternalMortality                               PRSP      PovertyReductionStrategyPaper
IPPS     IntegratedPay andPersonnelSystem                          ROM       Resnlts-OrientedManagement
JLO      Justice, Law, and order                                   SACCO      Savings and Credit Associations
JSA      Joint Staff Assessment                                    STG        SocialSecurityTransition Group
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau                            SWG        Sector Working Group
LGDP     Local GovernmentDevelopmentProject                        TSU       TechnicalSupportUnit
LSSP     Land Sector StrategicPlan                                 TFR        Total FertilityRate
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation                                 n o s     UgandaBureauof Statistics
MAAIF    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries    TB         Tuberculosis
MAPS     Marketingand Agro Processing Strategy                     UNDP      UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
MDG      MillenniumDevelopmentGoals                                UPE        UniversalPrimary Education
MEMD     Ministry of Energy, and Mineral Development               UPPAP      UgandaParticipatoryPoverty AssessmentProject
MFI      Micro FinanceInstitutions                                 URA        UgandaRevenue Authority
MOD      Ministry of Defense                                       USAID      United States Agency for International Development
MoES     Ministry of Educationand Sports                           VAT        Value Added Tax
MoFPED   Ministry of Finance, Planningand EconomicDevelopment      wss        Water Supply and Sanitation
MOGLSD   Ministry of Gender, Labor and SocialDevelopment           UCDA       UgandaCoffee DevelopmentAuthority




                                 Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo
                                 Country Director:               Judy O'Connor
                                 Sector Manager:                 Dzingai Mutumbuka
                                 Task Team Leader:               Paud Murphy

                                                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                  THE REBUPLIC OFUGANDA
                         FOURTHPOVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION

                                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS

            SUMMARY............  .................................................    ................................................... ......................  I
                                                                                                                                                                     ,
            I.INTRODUCTION........................................................................................................................                1
            11.PROGRESS ................................................................................................................................ 1
               Summary o f Key Issues: Satisfactory Implementation, PEAP Revision, Joint Staff Assessment,
               and Poverty Headcount .................................................................................................................            1
              Three-year Reform Program .........................................................................................................                 5
              Anticipated Prior Actions for PRSC5 .........................................................................................                      11
            111.POVERTYAND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.................................................................                                                 12
               Recent Findings on Poverty and Welfare ....................................................................................                       12
               Recent Economic Developments ....................................................................
            IV.UGANDA'S POVERTY REDUCTIONSTRATEGY AND PROGRESSTOWARDS THE
            MILLENNIUMDEVELOPMENT GOALS.................................................................................19
               RevisedPEAP 2004 ....................................................................................................................             19
               Progress towards the Millennium Development Goals...............................................................20
            V. WORLD BANKGROUP STRATEGY ...................................................................................                                      20
               Consistency with the 2000-2003 country assistance strategy (CAS)                                      .........
               Stocktaking o f Uganda PRSCs...................................................................
               Analytical Underpinnings o f the PRSC Program.......................................
               Development Partner Alignment and Coordination........................... ........
            VI. THE PROPOSED GRANT .....................................................................................................                         24
               Grant Administration ..........................................,.. .,.,.........,..........,......... .........,....,.....
               Implementation and Monitoring ...................,....... ... ..,.... .. .....,,., ....... ...... ., .........
                                                                                       .., ., . .                   .        .. ., .     ,
               Benefits and Risks...........................               .....................................................................
             SCHEDULES
             Schedule I:Letter o f Development Policy.....................................................................................                       30
             Schedule 11:Policy ResultsMatrix ................................................................................................                   72
             Schedule 111:Progress and Results Matrix.....................................................................................                       86

             ANNEXES
             Annex 1: Details o f Reform Program: Results, Progress, and Strategy ......................................                                         103
             Annex 2: Development o f Policy Action Benchmarks................................................................                                   139
             Annex 3: Principles for Determining Prior Actions .........................................................
             Annex 4: Gender Issues inPRSC4 ...................................................................................
             Annex 5: Analysis o f Environment and Resettlement Issues ......................................................                                    155
             Annex 6: Uganda and the MillenniumDevelopment Goals........................................................                                         174
             Annex 7: Uganda at a Glance ......................................................................................................                  175
             Annex 8: Social Indicators...........................................................................................................               177
             Annex 9: Key Economic Indicators.............................................................................................                       178
             Annex 10: Key Exposure Indicators............................................................................................                       180
             Annex 11: Status o f World Bank Group Operations inUganda.............................................,.... 181
             Annex 12: Note on Relations with the InternationalMonetary Fund                                                        ............................ 182

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.

FIGURES
Figure 1: Summary o f Second PEAP and PRSC Objectives ...........................................................          4
Figure 2: Real GDP Growth and Inflation, Uganda, 1998/99-2004/05 .........................................                 14
Figure 3: Government Expenditureand Deficit, Uganda, 1997198-2003/04 (% o f GDP) ............17
Figure 4: Analytical Underpinnings o f the PEAP and PRSC ........................................................          22

TABLES
Table I : Progress inImplementingPrior Actions ............................................................................ 2
Table I1: Anticipated Prior Actions for PRSC 5 ........................................................................... 12
Table 111: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, Uganda 1998/99-2005/06 ..........................................                 15
Table IV: Uganda's External FinancingRequirements, 2004/05-2007/07 (US$ million) ............18




MAP IBRD 31802




The Bank task team includes the following staff and consultants: Paud Murphy (Task Team
Leader, AFTH1); Harriet Nannyonjo, Son Nam Nguyen, Peter Okwero, Ivar Strand (AFTH1);
Khama Rogo (AFTHD); Shiyan Chao (ECSHD); Marius Koen, Patrick Piker Umah Tete
(AFTFM); Robert Blake (AFTP4); Sudharshan Canagarajah, Dino Merotto, Alema Siddilq, Paul
Mpuga (AFTP2); Denyse Morin (AFTPR); Michael Wong, William Steel, Lucy Fye (AFTPS);
Richard Olowo, Rogati Kayani (AFTPC); Robert Hunja (OPCPR); Nathalie W. Johnson, Mary
Bitekerezo, J.J. Oloya, Robert Townsend, Shem Migot-Adholla, David Nielson (AFTS2); Caesar
Chidawanyika (AFTS 1); Yitzhak Kamhi, Labite Ocaya (AFTTR); At0 Brown, Fook Chuan Eng
(AFTU1); Mark Blackden (AFTPM); Grace Yabrudy (AFMUG); Aberra Zerabruk (LEGAF);
Preeti Ahuja (AFCTZ); Peter Miovic, Ranjana Mukherjee, Charles Byaruhanga, Kenneth Green,
Arild Hauge, Charles Kinyeki,and KithinjiKiragu (consultants); Task Team Assistants: Victoria
Fofanah (AFTH1); Sarah Babirye, Peace K. Tukamuhabwa (AFMUG). Quality reviewers and
advisors include Ritva Reinikka (DECRG); Satu Kristiina J. Kahkonen, (ECSPE); Bruce
Fitzgerald (PA9SS); Stefan Koeberle (OPCCE).




This document has a restricteddistributionandmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                             THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
          FOURTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION

                                          SUMMARY

Borrower:      The Republic o f Uganda

Amount:        SDR 102.6 million (US$ 150 million equivalent)

Terms:         IDA grant for debt vulnerable countries

Description: The proposed grant is the fourth sequential annual Poverty Reduction Support
               operation (PRSC4), financing one year o f a medium-term program that supports
               the implementation o f Uganda's Second Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)
               as summarized in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The grant
               provides support to finance the implementation o f long-term PEAP objectives
               through support for three-year outputs and the policy actions requiredto achieve
               these outputs. PRSC4 continues support for the service delivery and rural
               development reform program that was initiated under previous PRSCs, and it
               sharpens the focus on gender, infant and maternal mortality, and results-
               orientation. Currently, PRSC4 i s the only source o f Bank finance for education,
               health, and water and sanitation in Uganda. Like its three predecessors, PRSC4
               has been developed in the expectation that the rolling medium-term reform
               program will continue to be supported by subsequent PRSCs; this document thus
               describes both the reforms financed under PRSC4 and the planned program for
               possible financing by PRSCS and PRSC6.

               The PRSC supports reforms under the four pillars o fthe secondPEAP:

PEAP Pillar I: Creating aframework for economic growth and structural transformation. The
               desired outcome i s to achieve more efficient and equitable use o f public
               resources. PRSC support over the next three years seeks to: (a) achieve a
               comprehensive medium-term expenditure framework that will facilitate coherent
               budget management; and (b) strengthen local ownership o f decentralized public
               service delivery.

PEAP Pillar 2: Strengthening good governance and security. Desired long-term outcomes are:
               (a) improved capacity and performance o f the public service; (b) strengthened
               financial management practices; (c) stronger rule o f law, transparency, and
               detection and punishment of corrupt practices; and (d) improved civil society
               participation. PRSC support over the next three years will help achieve a number
               o f outputs insupport o f these outcomes.

PEAP Pillar 3: Increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes. Desired outcomes are:
               (a)  improved environmental sustainability;        and (b) improved enabling
               environment for transition from subsistence to commercial agriculture. PRSC
               support over the next three years will help achieve a number of outputs in support
               of these outcomes.

PEAP Pillar 4: Improving quality of life of thepoor. Desired outcomes are: (a) universal primary
               education achieved; (b) reduced child mortality, better maternal health, and
               progress against HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases; and (c) improved access
               to functional water and sanitation services. Strong ongoing sectonvide processes




                                                 i

              and reviews are the key to achieving the PRSC outputs in support o f these
              outcomes.

Benefits:    The proposed grant supports the economic and institutional environment for the
              sustained implementation o f PEAP reforms.           It underpins Government's
              objectives by providing external resources necessary for the execution o f the
              Government budget, and by providing knowledge and technical advice on the
             implementation o f Uganda's poverty reduction reforms, with a particular
             emphasis on improved service delivery and rural development. Specific benefits
             from PRSC support o fthe four pillars o fthe PEAP include:
              0   More efficient and equitable use o f public resources;
                  Improved efficiency      o f public    procurement,   strengthened    financial
             management and institutions to reduce corruption;
                  Better enabling environment for transition from subsistence to commercial
             agriculture; and
                  Improved delivery o f basic education, health, water and sanitation services.

Risks:       The risks facing the programcanbe broadly classifiedintwo categories:

              1.      Risks that stem from the broader context in Uganda: These include: (a)
             difficulties with the political transition; (b) continuedexpanding insecurity and
             the socio-economic challenges posed by the 17-year conflict in the North and the
             related insecurity in the East; (c) corruption, which has clear negative
             consequences for foreign direct investment flows and growth; (d) weak
             institutional and public sector workforce capacity, particularly at sub-national
             levels; (e) exogenous shocks arising, for example, from adverse weather patterns,
             changes in terms o f trade, or global developments; and (0 poor mortality and
             reproductive health outcomes in Uganda. PRSC i s supporting efforts to address
             corruption, weak institutional capacity, and poor mortality and health outcomes.

             2.       Risks that pertain particularly to the PRSC: These include the risk o f
             diminution o f the powers o f the Inspector General o f Government as a result o f
             the successful constitutional challenges to the Leadership Code. This risk i s
             mitigated by the development o f a Government plan to implement the Code,
             including reenactment. A second risk i s stagnation o f the public service reform
             agenda, which could have long-term implications for many o f the efforts
              supported by the PRSC. Government i s aware o f this problem and committed to
             addressing it over the next two years. Another source o f program-specific risk i s
             the difficulties with Government's coordination o f implementation: with
             generally weak institutions, duplication o f effort, and poor intersectoral linkages,
             it has proven difficult to involve all sectors inimplementing the PRSC. The new
             Government-wide coordination arrangements for oversight of core reforms,
             provided they are appropriately funded and staffed, shouldreduce this risk.

Estimated
disbursements:          SDR 102.6 million (US$ 150 million equivalent) will be disbursed
                        upon grant effectiveness.

Project IDnumber:     PE-PO74082




                                               11

                                          I.INTRODUCTION

1. This program document presents a proposed development grant to The Republic of Uganda
for SDR 102.6 million (US$ 150 million equivalent), to finance a fourth Poverty Reduction
Support Operation (PRSC4). The proposed grant i s a core operation to finance implementation o f
the objectives o f Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action PlaxdPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PEAP/PRSP).       It builds on the preceding three PRSCs, which were approved by the World
Bank's Executive Board in May 2001 (US$ 150 million), July 2002 (US$ 150 million), and
September 2003 (US$ 150 million), respectively. As spelled out in the Bank Group's country
assistance strategy for Uganda, the series o f PRSCs i s the Bank's principal instrument to assist
the Government in implementing its PEAP/PRSP.

2. PRSCs 1, 2, and 3 each established a rolling three-year reform program with performance
benchmarks, policy measures, and outcome targets. They each provided financing in support o f
the implementation o f one year o f Uganda's second PEAP/PRSP, and inparticular its objectives
of improving basic service delivery and enhancing rural development.

3. The proposed PRSC4 continues the reform program supported by its predecessors. It will
enable Uganda to further develop the program and to deepen the rural agenda that was added
during PRSC2 preparation, as well as the financial sector component that was expanded during
PRSC3. PRSC4 adds a particular focus on gender, infant and maternal mortality, and results-
orientation, with three-year outputs that are essential steps towards the achievement o f the long-
term outcomes targeted by the second PEAP. The proposed grant i s developed with the
expectation that the medium-term reform program will continue to be supported by two
subsequent PRSCs. Hence this document describes both the reforms to be supported by PRSC4
and the program that i s planned for the next two years.

4. The proposed reform program, including prior actions, has been developed jointly with the
Ugandan Government and other development partners o f Uganda. The African Development
Bank, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and United Kingdom intend to
provide parallel external financing linked to the World Bank Board's approval o f PRSC4.

                                              11.PROGRESS

      Summary of Key Issues:Satisfactory Implementation,PEAPRevision,Joint Staff
                                 Assessment, and PovertyHeadcount

5. The Government's reform program supported by PRSC4 i s being satisfactorily implemented
and all the prior actions have been met.' Figure 1 shows the overall objectives o f the reform
program, the ten long-term outcomes, and the three-year outputs insupport o f these outcomes,

6. Uganda i s on track with its macroeconomic reforms, which have been consistent with the
three-year arrangement under the International Monetary Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (approved by the Fund Board in September 2002, with progress reviews by the Fund
Board in June and December 2003, and in July 2004). Uganda's macroeconomic developments
are reviewed inSection I11below.



'Prior actions are those policy actions that all parties see as critical for the progress o f reform. They are
jointly agreed monitorable benchmarks that the government fulfills before a credit i s presented to the World
Bank Board



                                                        1

AnticipatedPRSC4 Prior Actions FinalPRSC4 Prior Actions    Comments
inPRSC3BoardDocumentation




                                       2

                                           1 the annual public expenditure review, Successfully implemented. Given the
~
 Inthe annual public expenditure review,
 Govemment has agreed with donors on        ovemment has agreed with donors on difficulties o f pro-rata budget
 the medium-termexpenditure                le medium-termexpenditure                 disbursement estimates, it was agreedto
 framework (MTEF) for 2003104-             amework (MTEF) for 2003104-               expand the monitoringo f budget
 2005106,and has executedthe 2003104       005106,and has executed the 2003104 execution to the full year.
 budget through the first three quarters   udget through the full year consistent
 consistent with budget allocations.       rithbudget allocations.
 Ministries o f Public Service and          o change                                 Successfully implemented.
 Finance, Planning, and Economic
 Development will have effected salary
 adjustments consistent with the pay
 reform strategy and MTEF.
 The Inspector General o f Govemment       3G completes the analysis of declared Successfully implemented: The action
 (IGG)has verified the asset declarations  $setsand information collected from       was changed as the verification process
 o f key categories o f leaders and taken  ey categories of leaders, initiates assets can only follow publication of declared
 appropriate action.                       erification, investigates all complaints  assets, desk analysis, and input from the
                                            om the public received by November       public, and all o f this could not be
                                           003, and presents a time-bound action completed within one year.
                                           Ian for implementing the leadership
                                           sde.                                       With the recent constitutional rulingon
                                                                                      the Leadership Code, the Attomey
                                                                                      General provided an impact analysis o f
                                                                                      the Constitutional challenges to Code,
                                                                                      and the IGG and Directorate o f Integrit)
                                                                                      (DEI)provided aplan for effective
                                                                                      implementation and enforcement o f the
                                                                                      Leadership Code, includinga process
                                                                                      for redrafting o f the Code itself.
                                           dinistry of Local Govemment                Successfully implemented. New prior
                                           ubmitted to Cabinet draft Local            action was proposed by Govemment so
                                           ;ovemment (LG) Procurement and             as to ensure momentum in overall
                                           Iisposal o f Assets Regulations and        procurement reforms.
                                           roposals to amendthe Local
                                           jovemment Act-particularly       on those
                                           ssues relating to appointment and
                                           emoval o f LGtender boards members.
                                           lops and MoFPEwill have completed Successfully implemented. The action
 presentedto Cabinet for approval a        omprehensive draft policy paper on         was changed from the original proposal
 policy for regulating and controlling the ;sues, measures, and modalities for        as the analytical work and consultations
 size o f public administration and social ontrolling size o f public administration would take longer than first planned.
 sector establishments.                     nd ensuring cost efficiency and
                                            ffectiveness inhuman resource
                                           evelopment o f social sectors
                                           stablishment, and discussed this with
                                           scial sector ministries.
 Satisfactory implementation o f            10 change                                 Successfully implemented. (All
 undertakings agreed ineducation sector                                               undertakings satisfactorily implementec
 review inMay 2003 and confirmed by                                                    are listed in Schedule 2)

                                           [o change                                  Successfully implemented. (All
 undertakings agreed inhealth sector                                                  undertakings satisfactorily implementec
 review in April 2003 and confirmed by                                                 are listed in Schedule 2)
 November 2003 review.
 Satisfactory implementation o f            io change                                  Successfully implemented. (All
 undertakings agreed inwater and                                                       undertakings satisfactorily implementec
 sanitation sector review in September                                                 are listed in Schedule 2)
 2003 and confirmed by March 2004
 review.




                                                             3

   t




   t




I-
F      a-
0
N
5
%
P
>r

C
E
al
f      t
P
0
r

C
0
C
E
3
8      t
'0
al
m
p
I



n
0      t
r
0
=0
E

0
U
a
B..
.-s    t

C
0
a
0

0
-
 E     4-
6..
 al


n
W
a
n      t




       e

                                   Three-year ReformProgram

12. The second PEAP, supported by PRSCs 1, 2, 3 and 4 was accompanied by a comprehensive
action plan to support its implementation over a three-year period. This i s summarized inFigure
1 and detailed in Schedules 2 and 3. The following paragraphs summarize the achievements
under the program to date, the challenges over the medium term, and the proposed actions to
address these challenges. The achievements and challenges are described in greater detail in
Annex 1.

Implementationto support PEAPPillar 1: Creating a framework for economic growth and
structuraltransformation
13. Uganda has made substantial progress in strategic resource allocation and budget execution,
and continues to have a robust and transparent budget process. Proposed budgets are shared and
agreed with local stakeholders and external financing partners. Measures have been put inplace
to strengthen public expenditure management. The Budget Act of 2001 has provided new tools
for budget management and it involves Parliament more closely in budget preparation. The new
Public Finance and Accountability Act o f 2003 has strengthened Parliamentary oversight and
transparency o f the budget. Government has undertaken to agree its medium-term expenditure
framework at annual public expenditure review workshops, and to execute the budget consistent
with the allocations agreed. PRSC5 and PRSC6 will further support Government's PEAP and
help finance program and budgets consistent with PEAP priorities, and consistent with agreed
allocations to achieve key targets.

14. Budget management. Inrecent years, delays inbudget releases have become a concern for
many sectors, especially in local govemment as they struggle to achieve their planned outputs in
line with their budget framework papers.          With PRSC4 support, an action plan has been
developed for timely budget releases to sectors and districts; it will be implemented with support
from PRSC5. Recent reforms in budget legislation including the Budget Act o f 2001 have
strengthened the budget process by promoting adherence to the budget calendar, clarifying the
roles and responsibilities o f sectors, Treasury and Parliament.          The Public Finance and
Accountability Act o f 2003, supported under PRSC3, aims at curtailing supplementary
expenditures and preventing the accumulation o f domestic arrears. Supplementary expenses must
not exceed 3 percent o f the total approved budget; any supplementary expenses exceeding this
limit must be approved in advance by Parliament. Budget overruns in the last few years have
been declining in all sectors; the deviation o f actual spending from the planned budget has shrunk
from 7.6 percent in 2000/01 to 5.4 percent in 2003/04. For the immediate future, Government
intends to further reduce the deviation to less than 5 percent, to ensure the credibility o f the
budget process, and this target was incorporated in this year's medium-term expenditure
framework.

15. Budgeting for poverty programs. The share o f the budget going to PEAP priority areas, as
reflected inthe allocations to the Poverty Action Fund, has increased from 35 percent in 2001/02
to 37.3 percent in 2003/04. With support from PRSC5 and PRSC6, Govemment intends to
maintain the share o f the budget going to PEAP priority areas at 37.3 percent in 2004/05 and
increase to 37.8 percent in2005106. Inaddition, based on the thirdPEAP, Govemment intends to
review the current Poverty Action Fund expenditures to ensure that they are addressing PEAP
priorities. The PRSC program over the next two years will help in achieving greater consistency
between PEAP and the budget.

16. Both the size o f the increases in public administration and defense budgets, and the
overspending compared to budget, have been o f concern for the past three years.             Unless
corrected, this trend mayjeopardize the consistency o f the budget with the PEAP and undermine
the credibility o f the strong budget process in Uganda. During the Public Expenditure Review
Workshop held inM a y 2004, donors made ajoint statement raising serious concerns with respect


                                               5

to the large increases in allocations for defense and public administration at the expense o f PEAP
priority activities, Following exchange o f views and changes to address the major concerns, the
2004l05 budget was endorsed by donors. With support from PRSCS and PRSC6, studies to
reform public administration, and of plans to incorporate output measures inthe justice, law, and
order; and agricultural sectors will be implemented. Along with the implementation o f a recently
completed Defense Review, these measures should help keep budgeted allocations consistent
with PEAP priorities. Implementation o f an action plan to integrate the wage bill into sector
expenditure plans-supported         by PRSC4, and to be further supported under PRSCS and
PRSC6-will       help the sectors to better prioritize and manage their expenditures, and should help
keep public administration spendingunder control.

17. Comprehensive        medium-term      expenditure framework       facilitates  coherent   budget
management. This year, the Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development has
begunintegratingproject aidinto the medium-term expenditure framework. However, the quality
and reliability o f information on project commitments and expected disbursements still remains in
question.

18. Strengthened local ownership of decentralized public service delivery. Government has been
piloting a fiscal decentralization strategy to increase the flexibility o f services and strengthen
local ownership o f their delivery in twelve districts and three municipalities. With support from
PRSCS, Government i s expected to review the implementation experience in the pilot, and to
resolve any problems before mainstreaming the strategy.

19. Increased use of beneficiary assessments to promote public accountability. Over the past
decade Uganda has successfully introduced service delivery surveys and systematic beneficiary
assessments in key sectors. The challenge for the future i s to make effective use o f lessons from
these studies. The Ministry o f Public Service has helped a small number o f key ministries to use
the results to establish service delivery standards. With support from PRSCS, the Ministry will
introduce beneficiary assessment techniques on a pilot basis and will then roll out the service
standards and beneficiary assessment techniques to other sectors with support under PRSC6.

20. Improvedfunding and coverage of national pension schemes. Reforming Uganda's pension
sector i s critical, since civil service pension obligations consume an increasing portion o f budget
resources and are thereby undermining public service delivery. The pension obligations for the
public service and armed forces represent an unsustainable budgetary commitment, and serious
concerns have been raised about the management, administrative costs, and investment choices
and returns o f the National Social Security Fund. Government intends to obtain comments from a
range o f sources on an extensive set of recommendations from the Social Security Transition
Group, and in particular to cost out alternative approaches for pension reform so that obligations
can be fully funded. After selecting among options to reduce the debts associated with the public
pension system, the Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development will initiate an
action plan for liberalizing the insurance sector. This will be supported under PRSCS. In 2004,
insurance companies and brokers are complying with new insurance regulations enacted by the
Ministryand anew Boardis inplace for the UgandaInsurance Commission.

21. Coherent strategy and clear division of labor for monitoring and evaluation. Uganda has
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) systems in place for key government programs supported by
the Poverty Action Fund and sectonvide approaches, but it still lacks a comprehensive national
M&E strategy that is consistent with the PEAP. Support from PRSC4 has been used to begin
implementing a national integrated M&E system: under the Office o f the Prime Minister, an
M&E working group (representing the Ministries o f Finance, Planning, and Economic
Development; Public Service; and Local Government) i s coordinating the implementation of
M&E benchmarks for the PRSC, and over the next two years, the targets and indicators will be
further developed inconjunction with the thirdPEAP.


                                                    6

22. A gender focus in the macroeconomic reform agenda. PRSC4 support has focused on
strengthening the ways in which the implications o f gender inequality are addressed in policies
and budgets through the implementation o f three inter-related tasks: (i)revision and update o f the
National Gender Policy; (ii)development and implementation o f gender and equity budget
guidelines for the 2005/06 cycle; and (iii)   addressing gender and growth linkages in Uganda.
This agenda will be advanced with support from PRSC5 and 6, which will focus on progress
made in updating the National Gender Policy and in the implementation, and impact, o f the
gender-responsive budget guidelines prepared for the 2005/06 budget cycle.

23. Special attention topopulation growth and infant and maternal mortality. Uganda continues
to have one o f the highest population growth rates in the region while maternal and child
mortality rates have remained high. In this context, Uganda i s unlikely to meet the relevant
MDGs. PRSC4 has devoted special attention to these issues by       (1)ensuring these outcomes are
given appropriate attention by the Ministry o f Finance, Planning and Economic Development
which will have the responsibility on monitoring agreed actions across the sectors (through the
Maternal and Child Mortality Task Force); (ii)   recognizing that most actions needed to counter
these issues fall outside the health sector and identifying specific activities to be undertaken by
them; (iii)ensuringthat the health sector continues to play a central role, focusing on improving
access to quality primary health, with special       attention to nutrition, immunization, family
planning, emergency obstetric care and strengthening preventive activities against HIV/AIDS and
malaria.

Implementation to support PEAPPillar 2: Strengtheninggood governanceand security;
improving capacity and performance o f the public service
24. The strategic framework for pursuing these outcomes i s the Public Sewice Reform Program.
Progress towards restoring the capacity o f the public service was quite rapid inthe early and mid-
1990s, when the Government consistently and boldly pursued public sector reforms, but recent
years have seen some stagnation. The PRSC process, supported by analytical work, has partly
succeeded in reinvigorating the reforms: for example, bottlenecks to recruiting teachers and
health workers have been largely removed, the integnty o f the payroll has been improved, and the
Government has committed to a policy to enhance pay for technical, professional, and managerial
personnel. However, progress i s slow and limited resources have been allocated to public sector
reform, and particularly to the medium-term commitment to pay reform. Duringthe PRSCS and
PRSC6 periods, Government will more vigorously pursue pay reform through an updatedpolicy
and strategy that reflects affordable medium-term salary enhancement targets and the resource
commitments embodied in the medium-term expenditure framework. Complementary measures
will be geared to reining inthe growth inpublic sector employment.

25. Stronger practices ofjnancial management. Progress has been made in strengthening and
updating the legal framework and regulatory environment for public financial management.
Dramatic improvements in the accounting and auditing capacity o f the public sector mean that
fiduciary risk has been reduced.       The Government has procured an integrated financial
management system, but the rollout and further development and funding o f this system poses a
significant challenge. The issue o f the operational independence o f the Auditor General i s an
anticipated prior action for PRSCS.

26. Strengthened rule of law, transparency, detection andpunishment of corrupt practices. With
support from PRSC1, the justice, law, and order sector adopted a sectonvide approach to criminal
and commercial justice. A reform program began to be implemented with support from PRSC2
and PRSC3. The Commercial Justice Reform Program focused on improving the regulatory and
service delivery framework for private sector investment. The sector has also made gains in
monitoring and evaluatingprograms, with two reviews a year.




                                                7

27. The Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment by the Poor survey identified the importance
to the poor of domestic violence and gender-specific barriers to justice.      Two key pieces o f
proposed legislation-the    Domestic Relations Bill and the draft Sexual Offenses Bill-address
substantive barriers to equitable access to justice for women; ifpassed into law, they will provide
an important foundation for improving women's security. The sector undertakings agreed to in
the justice, law, and order sector review include tabling the Domestic Relations Bill to Parliament
and tabling the Sexual Offenses Billto Cabinet.

28. Progress i s being made in implementing Uganda's Leadership Code, however the recent
constitutional ruling have created difficulties with regards to enforcement o f the Code. A legal
opinion by the Attorney General has been provided that analyses the impact o f the constitutional
challenges to the Leadership Code. Also, government has submitted a satisfactory plan that
addresses the short and long term actions necessary for the effective implementation and
enforcement of the Leadership Code, including a plan for the redrafting o f the Code. Over the
next year the Inspector General o f Government will complete the verification o f the declarations
o f assets o f key leaders, and appropriate action will be taken against offenders. This i s an
anticipated prior action for PRSCS. Uganda's development partners are supporting the efforts
with technical assistance and other means. A particularly important development this year was
the publication by the country's main newspapers of the declared assets of cabinet members,
ministers o f state, and presidential advisors. This has demonstrated the Government's serious
intentions and enabled the general public to gauge the veracity o f the declarations. With support
from PRSCS and PRSC6, Government will implement a National Anti-corruption Action Plan,
providing a framework for monitoring its efforts to combat corruption. Inaddition, the necessary
legal and regulatory framework to discourage corrupt practices will be in place with
Whistleblower Protection and QuiTam and the Access to Government Information laws,

29. Improved effectiveness of public procurement. At the central government level, all the
ingredients for making the procurement system more efficient,           economic, transparent, and
accountable are now inplace. At the local government level, the reformprogram supports efforts
to harmonize regulations and make them consistent with those at the center.             The Public
Procurement and Disposal o f Assets Authority has begun to measure the results o f the
procurement reforms on the ground, and has commissioned two procurement reviews             - at the
Ministry of Education and Sports and the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment. The
presentation o f the revised Local Government Bill to Parliament i s an anticipated prior action for
PRSCS.

30. Improved civil society participation. Government has increasingly acknowledged the
contributions o f civil society in service delivery, policy dialogue, and monitoring and evaluation.
But the division of roles and responsibilities among government agencies for registering,
monitoring, and overseeing NGOs needs to be clarified. Over the next two years, the legal and
regulatory framework within which NGOs operate will be reformed, recognizing the concern that,
if passed in its present form, the NGOs Amendment Bill (2001) will severely restrict NGO
operations. Government i s committed to including communities in the participatory planning
processes and to harmonize the use o f participatory approaches that were initially uncoordinated.
For this purpose, it has begun applying the Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide for lower
councils.

Implementationto support PEAPPillar 3: Increasingthe ability of the poor to raise their
incomes
3 1. Improved environmental sustainability. Lead agencies and institutions have improved their
capacity for environmental management. Environmental impact assessment guidelines have been
developed and implemented inthe road sector; draft guidelines for water and sanitation services,
energy, and mining are being prepared; and work i s in progress on guidelines for agriculture,
forestry, and wildlife management activities. New local government planning manuals promote


                                                 8

environmentally sustainable planning. Guidelines for environmental screening o f sector plans and
programs have been developed for the PEAP revision and the budget process. The National
Forestry and Tree Planting Bill has been approved by Parliament and gazetted. Government has
launched the National Forest Authority, established a Forestry Inspection Division, and
developed a National Forestry Plan. PRSC5 and 6 will support the implementation o f the forestry
plan and the development of an environment andnatural resource sector investment plan.

32. Enabling environment for transition from subsistence to commercial agriculture: Some
progress i s being made towards the implementation o f the Plan for the Modernization o f
Agriculture.2 The National Agricultural Advisory Service program i s now operating in 153 sub-
counties in 21 districts. A new National Agricultural Research System Bill has been approved by
Cabinet and i s due for discussion by Parliament.               The ten-year District and Urban Road
Investment Program offers a logical basis for multi-annual investment and monitoring, and i s
making detailed preparations for building the first 700 km o f roads. A review o f the institutions
governing coffee exports has offered recommendations to make these institutions more effective
inglobal markets. Arrangements have been streamlined for coordinatingUganda's Medium-term
Competitiveness Strategy with its Strategic Exports Program. The Land Sector Strategic Plan
unit, now operational, has carried out public campaigns to raise the awareness of land rights
among women and vulnerable groups, but its overall progress has been relatively slow, owing to
physical and human capacity constraints and the inadequacy o f the land registry.                     The
development o f the land registry i s being taken up as part o f the Private Sector Competitiveness
project to be funded by the World Bank, and this should help resolve a number o f these issues.
T o strengthen the framework for savings and credit associations, regulations have been drafted to
accompany the Microfinance Deposit-taking Institutions Bill, together with revisions to the
Cooperative Act, which strengthen the framework for savings and credit associations inline with
international standards.

33. T o emphasize the implementation o f the Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA),
PRSC5 supports, as an anticipated prior action, the increased alignment o f the budget allocations
o f different ministries and agencies to undertakings agreed at PMA progress reviews. The Bank
of Uganda will begin supervising newly licensed microfinance institutions, and the Ministry of
Finance, Planning, and Economic Development and the Ministryo f Tourism, Trade, and Industry
will jointly develop and oversee the implementation of a framework for regulating savings and
credit cooperatives and other microfinance institutions. Further proposed actions include the
continued rollout and deepening o f the National Agricultural Advisory Services Program;
approval o f the newly prepared National Agricultural Research Bill and the establishment of a
competitive agricultural research grant scheme; the approval o f the revised Cooperatives Act; the
finalization o f institutional arrangements for managing district roads and initial implementation o f
the first 700 kmconstructionphase; the passage into law o f the Warehouse Receipts Bill3,and the
establishment of supporting mechanisms and institutions; rehabilitation o f the land registry;
completion and evaluation o f pilot schemes for systematic demarcation and certification across
different land use systems; and the expansion o f activities to raise awareness o f women's land
rights.

Implementationto support PEAPPillar 4: Improvingthe quality of lifeof the poor
34. Universal Primary Education Achieved. The Government has made steady progress in
implementing its Universal Primary Education policy, expanding access while improving the
quality o f primary education. It i s committed to achieving the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) on the universal completion of primary schooling by 2015 and the elimination of gender


  The Plan identifies seven priority areas for public action: research and technology development,
agricultural advisory services, rural finance, agro-processing and marketing, agricultural education,
sustainable natural resource use, and supportive physical infrastructure.
  This billi s designed to improve Uganda's access to foreign financing and international markets.

                                                     9

disparities inprimary and secondary education-if     possible by 2005, but certainly by 2015. The
national primary school gross enrollment rate i s currently about 126.3 percent and among the
poorest population quintile the net primary school enrollment rate has increased to about 83
percent, with almost equal numbers o fboys and girls. The cohort survival rate to primary grade 5
has risen from 36 percent in2001 to 57 percent in2003. Gender disparity has been eliminated in
primary education, but in secondary education the share o f girls in 2003 was only 45 percent. To
improve the quality o f primary education, Government continues to increase the numbers o f
teachers, classrooms, and textbooks.        To improve access to secondary education, it i s
implementing a costed expansion plan. Education sector reviews are monitoring both these
efforts. The satisfactory implementation o f review undertakings i s an anticipated prior action for
PRSC5 and PRSC6.

35, Reduced child mortality, better maternal health, and progress against HIV/AIDS, malaria,
and other diseases. Many key indicators continue to show positive trends, and most o f the 18
Health Sector Strategic Plan targets have been achieved. Those for three o f the five PEAP
indicators have been exceeded: diptheria-pertussis-tetanus immunization coverage rose from 63
percent in 2002 to 84 percent in 2003; utilization o f out-patient departments rose fi-om 0.6 visits
per capita in 2002 to 0.72 in 2003; and the proportion of approved posts filled by trained health
workers rose from 42 percent to 67 percent (or 55 percent measured according to Uganda's new
staffing norms). National average ante-natal HIV sero-prevalence seems to have stabilized at
around 6 percent over the last four years; the rate in 2003 was 6.2 percent-down from 6.5
percent in 2002 but still higher than the year's target of 5.8 percent. High maternal mortality
rates remain o f great concern. The downward trend in the proportion o f mothers delivering in
public and private not-for-profit health facilities seems to have been halted, but the proportion i s
still unacceptably low, at only one infive, and inmany districts it remains well below the national
average. However, it should be noted that data on deliveries by other skilled hands are not
captured by these numbers and work i s being undertaken to study the scope o f the problem. The
sector's main additional efforts with support from PRSC5 will be to improve sanitation, nutrition
and emergency obstetric services and to expand the coverage o f family planning services, anti-
retroviral drugs, and home-based management of fevers. In addition, the sector will implement
its plan to reduce infant and maternal mortality while giving support to the Finance Ministry-led
multisector plan for this purpose. Sector reviews will monitor progress on these efforts, and the
satisfactory achievement o f review undertakings i s an anticipated prior action for PRSC5 and
PRSC6.

36. Improved access tofunctional water and sanitization services. With 3,000 new water points
annually inrural areas and more than 10,000 new water points annually in urban areas, as well as
modest efforts to promote sanitation and hygiene, the sector i s on track to meet the Millennium
Development Goals of supplying 65 percent o f the population with water and 80 percent with
sanitation by 2015.     The sectonvide approach to policy reforms and investment planning,
introduced after the first joint sector review in 2001, has been continuously refined and
consolidated. Resource flows to the sector have risen dramatically--from       Ush 47.4 billion in
fiscal year 1996/97 to Ush 126.0 billion in FY 2002103. Government is,pursuingfonvard-looking
subsectoral reforms that include the development o f an effective policy framework for managing
water resources; decentralized implementation of rural water supply and sanitation through local
governments; the introduction o f professional utility management and private-sector participation
in urban water and sanitation; and enhanced sector coordination and stakeholder consultation,
The third Joint Government/DevelopmentPartners' Sector Review was held in September 2003,
and the second technical review was held inMarch 2004. The focus for support from PRSC5 and
PRSC6 will be on updating the sector investment program and speeding the implementation o f
urban water and sanitation institutional reforms, as well as on initiating a sector response to
emergency situations. Progress will be monitored at future sector reviews. The anticipated prior



                                                 10

action for PRSC5 and PRSC6 will continue to be the satisfactory achievement o f review
undertakings.

Progressin crosscuttingareas of focus for PRSC4
37. PRSC4 has supported Government's work in the following three focus areas that cut across
the four pillars o f the PEAP.

38. Gender: Government has acted forcefully to address the limitations inthe treatment o f gender
issues that marked earlier formulations o f the PEAP. To sharpen the gender focus o f the revised
Action Plan, it formed a PEAP Gender Team in 2002, led by the Ministry o f Finance, Planning,
and Economic Development, and commissioned new analytical and policy-oriented work on the
gender dimensions o f poverty and on gendedgrowth linkages in Uganda. This has provided a
solid foundation for integratinggender issues more systematically into the PEAPprocess. To this
end, Government has prepared a set o f gender-focused actions that i s being implemented with
support from PRSC4. (For more information on this work, and on the integration o f gender into
the third PEAP, see Annex 4.)

39. Results orientation: During the PEAP revision, Government developed a results-oriented
planning framework. The PRSC4 policy matrix i s aligned with this broader Government
framework. The planning process that PRSC4 supports i s focused on achieving results. All
outcomes were revised and medium-term measurable outputs have been defined for most areas o f
the program. The revision o f the outcomes will be completed when the revised PEAP i s finalized.
The format o f the PRSC4 policy matrix, which represents the point o f departure for discussions
between Government and Uganda's development partners, has been changed to facilitate
strengthened results-orientation. The policy matrix and the quantitative monitoring indicators
matrix have been merged into the Policy Results Matrix (Schedule 2.) Government has also
developed a "progress matrix" (Schedule 3) which indicate progress both in implementation o f
the policies, and interms o f monitorable quantitative indicators. Work to refine and improve this
will continue over the next year. The consolidationwill assist a results-driven planning process,
and ensure that progress can be monitored as an integral part o f the continuous policyh-eform
action planning and review process. Government now places strong emphasis on measurable
performance indicators (input, output, outcome), and i s attempting to better link resources to
results by improving the results-orientation o f sector plans and expenditure programs.

40. Infant and maternal mortality: To place greater focus on maternal and child health problems,
Government constituted an interministerial taskforce, headed by the Ministry o f Finance,
Planning, and Economic Development, to advise on the adverse trends and courses o f action.
Work i s being undertaken to integrate their recommendations into the programs o f the many
sectors that have an impact on infant and maternal mortality. This includes reviews o f the impact
o f population growth on budgets, efforts to improve food security and nutrition by developing
food and nutrition strategy and investment plan, and tabling the food and nutrition bill in
Parliament with support from PRSCS. Also, the water and sanitation sector will give increased
priority to infant and maternal mortality issues in their sector program. The Taskforce identified
the underlying causes o f the high mortality as: high fertility rates, short birth intervals, high
illiteracy, low social status o f women, and poverty. These factors are aggravated by malnutrition
as well as lack o f access to, and poor quality of, maternal and child health services. The taskforce
recommended a series o f interventions for the next 5 - 10 years: universal access to an effective
primary health package, improvement in accessibility and quality o f emergency outpatient care,
expansion o f family planning programs, intensification of adolescent health interventions, and
nutrition interventions. PRSC 5 and 6 will continue to support the taskforce and monitor progress
across different sectors.

                               AnticipatedPrior Actions for PRSCS

41, Anticipated prior actions for PRSCS are those policy actions from the Policy Results Matrix

                                                11

that are seen as critical for continued progress o f the reform program (Table 2). These have been
proposedduringPRSC4 appraisal and negotiations and agreement on them will be finalized inthe
early phases o f PRSC5 preparation.

Table I1:AnticipatedPrior Actions for PRSC 5

                  1.    Inthe public expenditure review, Governmenthas agreed wit1
              donors on the medium-termexpenditure framework (MTEF) for
              2004105-2006107, and has executed the 2004105 budget consistent
              with budget allocations;
                  2.     Expenditures for Public Administration in2004105 should be
              withinthe agreed allocations for budget 2004105;
                  3,    Implementation o f the National Anti-Corruption Action Plan
              commences;
                  4.     IGGverifies asset declarations o fMinisters and appropriate
              action i s taken by relevant authorities in accordance with the law;
                  5.    Ministries o f Public Service and o f Finance, Planning, and
              Economic Developmentjointly commit to an updatedpay reform
              strategy and target salary adjustments for the mediumterm;

                  6.     MinistryofFinance, Planning, andEconomic Development
              drafts a revisedAudit Bill (2002) to ensure adequate operational
              independence o fthe Auditor General;
                  7.     RevisedLocal Government Bill i s tabled inParliament;

                  8.     Increasedalignment o fbudget allocations o f MAAIF,MTTI,
              MWHC, MWLE,MES, MGLSD, MEMD,MFPEDto P M Areview
              undertakings (2004105,2005106,2006107);
                  9.     Satisfactory implementation o f the undertakings agreed inthe
              education sector reviewinNovember 2003 and confirmed by the
              November 2004 review;
                  10.    Satisfactory implementation o f the undertakings agreed inthe
              health sector review inNovember 2003 and confirmed by the
              November 2004 review; and
                  11. Satisfactory implementationo fundertakings agreed inwater
              and sanitation sector review inSeptember 2003 and confirmedby
              SeDtember 2004 review.


                      111.POVERTYAND ECONOMICDEVELOPMENT

                              RecentFindingson PovertyandWelfare

42. Uganda remains one o f the poorest countries in the world, despite its impressive rates o f
growth and poverty reduction over the past 15 years. The country's annual GDP per capita i s still
below US$ 500, and the Human Development Index ranks Uganda 147th out o f 175 countries
(UNDP 2003). Duringthe 1990s, the poverty headcount in Uganda declined remarkably-from
56 percent in 1992 to 34 percent in 1999/2000. This reduction inpoverty was driven primarily by
strong growth the agricultural sector and favorable prices for Uganda's exports. The distribution
o f income between rural and urban areas worsened slightly duringthis period, but overall, growth
was pro-poor and the fruits were shared throughout the population. Access o f the poor to social
services improved substantially, especially inthe education sector.


                                                12

Welfare indicators
43. The living conditions o f Ugandans have consistently improved since 1999, according to the
measures o f welfare in Uganda's 2003 Household Survey. For every income quintile, in both
rural and urban areas, non-income indicators show large improvements in well being: access to
primary education, health care, safe water, and roads increased in all quintiles, and more so inthe
poorest two, and many more households now live in dwellings with permanent roofs (iron sheets
or better material) and walls, and/or own a radio. Market access is also improving, especially in
rural areas,  This suggests that the reforms to improve service delivery, which have been
supported under successive PRSCs and are still ongoing, are having a broad impact on the quality
o f life.

Income poverty
44. Nonetheless, the same survey indicates that between 1999/2000 and 2002/2003, Uganda's
poverty headcount increased from 34 to 38 percent o f the population. Poverty i s mainly a rural
phenomenon and i s most severe in the North. However, in recent years the biggest increases in
income-based poverty have occurred inEastern and Western Uganda. Proximate causes appear to
be the slowdown in the national rate o f economic growth, and negative price trends in the
agriculture sector, especially for food crops. Inequality within the rural and urban sectors has
been widening since 1999/2000, and people in the lower four income quintiles saw declines in
their real household consumption per capita between 1999/2000 and 2002/2003, resulting in a
slight widening o f overall income inequality.

45. The World Bank i s working with Government and development partners on a poverty
assessment to analyze the causes o f this increase in income-based poverty. The initial findings
suggest the need for an increased focus on raising the incomes o f the poor, while continuing to
build on past improvements in service delivery. It will also be important to cushion household
incomes against the shocks that can arise from weather and terms o f trade fluctuations. Support
from PRSC5 and PRSC6 i s likely to place greater emphasis on activities to achieve these goals.


                                 Recent Economic Developments

K e y macroeconomic indicators
46. Uganda's economy i s estimated to have grown by 5.7 percent in 2003/04, compared to 4.9
percent the previous year. Growth in 2003/04 was driven by a rebound in agricultural production
as weather conditions returned to normal, and by expansion in the communications and
construction sectors. The outlook for 2004/05 i s for real growth o f 5.9 percent, with cash crops,
manufacturing, construction and wholesale and retail trade being the major sources o f growth.
(Figure 2).

47. Annual average inflation fell from 5.9 percent in 2002/03 to an estimated 5.1 percent in
2003/04, as food crop prices declined with good harvests in most parts o f the ~ountry.~Lower
food prices this year are reflected inmuch lower end o f period inflation o f 0.4 percent in2003/04
compared to 10.2 percent at the end o f 2002/03.          For 2004/05, annual average inflation i s
expected to decline further to 3.5 percent.




 Food items account for about 25 percent o fthe CPIbasket, so inflation i s particularly sensitive to food
price changes.

                                                 13

Figure 2: Real GDP Growth and Inflation, Uganda, 1998/99-2004/05




     1 2



  c

  E    4 -                             5k

  P
       0        X

             1998199     1999/00    2000
      -4

                      /+Real     GDPgrow th (at MP)        Inflation (annual average)I

48. Uganda's exports o f goods increased by about 23 percent to US$ 628 million in 2003/04,
with nearly all o f the increase coming from non-coffee exports. Non-coffee exports have
continued to grow at more than 15 percent annually in dollar terms in recent years, and with
Uganda's coffee volumes falling in 2003/04 to offset the slight rise inprices, they are now almost
five times the level o f coffee exports. Exports o f fish have performed particularly well and in
dollar terms are almost equal to coffee exports. For 2004/05 more modest export growth o f about
4 percent i s expected.

49. Imports grew by 16 percent in 2003/04, to US$ 1,335 million As a result, Uganda's trade
balance remained strongly in deficit at US$707 million. With imports expected to continue to
grow in 2004/05 along with economic growth and increased import prices, the trade balance i s
expected to deteriorate m h e r to more than US$        844 million. The current account deficit
(excluding grants) in 2003/04 i s estimated to have narrowed to 11.7 percent o f GDP(Tab1e 3).
This was more than fully funded by official andprivate transfers, andby capital inflows, allowing
for a small increase inreserves to six and a halfmonths o f imports. For 2004/05, the higher trade
deficit i s projected to widen the current account deficit excluding grants to 13 percent o f GDP.
Slightly lower inflows o f donor support are expected to be offset by higher private capital
inflows.    Consequently, gross reserves are expected to remain comfortable, at just over six
months o f imports o f goods and services.

50. Reflecting strong inflows in 2003/04, the shilling appreciated slightly against the U S dollar,
ftom an average o f Ushs. 1,998 per U S dollar in June 2003 to Ushs 1,758 by July 2004. Interest
rates have been highly volatile in2003/04 because the Bank o f Uganda sterilized large variations
in government liquidity injections by selling treasury bills. The authorized rate on 91-day bills
rose and peaked at 23.2 percent in December 2003. Subsequently the Bank o f Uganda loosened
its monetary stance and resorted to foreign exchange sales for sterilization. Along with the
introduction o f the longer dated Government bonds, this resulted in a sharp decline in 91-day
treasury billrates, tojust 6.5 percent inJune 2004.




                                              14

Table 111: Key Macroeconomic Indicators, Uganda 1998/99-2005/06

Indicator                                 1998/99    1999100    2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05   2005/06
                                                                Actual                              Projection
Annual Average Inflation                    0.2        5.8        4.5     -2      5.7     5.1     3.5        3.5
(percent)

National accounts, percent growth rates
Agriculture                                 5.8        5.6        4.6     3.9     2.3     5.2     5.1         5
industry                                     12        5.3        6.2     7.9     7.2     5.6     6.2        6.3
Services                                     7.2       7.2        5.6      8      6.3     6.3     6.5        5.9
GDP at market prices                         8.1       5.6        4.9     6.8     4.7     5.7     6.0        5.4
Real per capita GDP                          2.5       1.8        2.5     3.4     1.4     2.1     2.5         2

National accounts (percent of GDP at market price)
Gross domestic investment                   19.2      19.5       18.2    19.6    20.3    21.3    22.5        22.6
  Public investment                          5.5       6.4        5.8     5.4     4.7     5.2     5.2        4.6
  Private investment                        13.7      13.1       12.4    14.2    15.6    16.1     17.3       18.0
Gross domestic savings                       7.4       7.9        6.5     5.7     9.8     4.7     2.9        4.6

Balance of payments (percent of GDP at market price)
CurrentAcct Balance (excludinggrants)      -13.5      -11.5      -13.8   -14.0   -13.8   -11.7   -13.1      -12.6
Current Acct Balance (includinggrants)      -8.1       -5.3      -6.0    -7.1    -6.5     -1.3    -5.8       -6.2

External Indicators
Debt ServicelExportsof Goodsand Services
(After rescheduling)                                              11.1    9.5     10.8    10.5    10.5       10.3

ReSeNeSin months of imports                  6.2       6.1        6.1      6      6.2     6.6     6.2        5.4

Government Finance (percent of GDP at market price)
Domestic Revenue                            11.7       11.3       10.8    12.2    12.1    12.6    12.9       12.7
Public Expenditure                          18.0       26.9      21.6     24.4    23.4    23.8    23.8       22.3
Overall Deficit (includinggrants)            -1.3      -9.7       -3.0    -5.3    -4.3    -1.7    -4.2       -3.5
Overall Deficit (excludinggrants)           -6.3      -15.5      -10.8   -12.2   -11.3   -11.2   -10.9       -9.7
 Externalborrowing(net)                      2.8       3.2        3.6     4.6     4.3     2.5     3.4        2.6
 Domestic borrowing(net)                     -0.2      6.4        0.1     -0.5    -0.2    -0.8    0.8        0.7

Sectoral Expenditure (percent of total noninterest expenditures)
(includingdonorfinancing)
 Roadsand Works                              6.2       12.9       8.4      14     8.2     11.6    13.4       14.4
Agriculture                                   1        4.1        1.5     4.4     4.2     3.6     3.8        4.2
 Education                                  26.1       20.1       25.1    19.2    20.5     21     20.6        20
 Health                                      6.4       11.3       7.3     9.3     11.2    13.8    12.7       12.8
 Security                                   20.6       10.8       14.2    8.8     10.9    11.9    12.4       12.6
 Water                                       1.8        4.6       2.5     6.1     3.3      3.5     3.7        2.9
 Law and Order                               7.7        5.3       6.5     4.7     5.7      5.8     5.9        5.4
 Accountability                              2.1        0.7       1.1     0.9     1.1      9.1     6.8        4.4
 Economic Functionsand Social Services       2.4       10.3       5.1     14.5     14      10     10.4       10.6
 PublicAdministration                        19.5      14.5       19.8    11.9    14.4    13.4     14         15
Interest Payment                             6.3        5.4       8.4      6.1    6.6      8.2     8.6        10


Source: WorldBank and IMF


51. Despite Government's efforts to strengthen the administration o f the Uganda Revenue
Authority, domestic revenue as a proportion o f GDP was only 12.6 percent in2003/04, below the
average o f 18 percent for Sub-Saharan African countries.                      With the introduction o f new tax
measures, revenue performance in 2004/05 i s expected to improve to 12.9 percent o f GDP.
However, the growth in tax revenue next year and inthe mediumterm will be constrained by the
implementation o f the East African Customs Union..

52. Government expenditure in 2003/04 i s estimated at 23.8 percent o f GDP, up from 23.4
percent in the previous year. In the last several years, Government has successfully maintained
the overall poverty focus o f the budget and, as noted earlier, Poverty Action Fund expenditures
are about 37 percent o f total Government-funded expenditures.                          However, as has been
emphasized, public expenditures need to give greater attention to activities that enhance growth
and productivity. Inaddition, in some areas o f the budget a lack of adherence to the Commitment


                                                             15

Control System has allowed arrears to build up; Government i s committed to addressing this
problem with support from the IMF Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility.

53. Through the four quarters o f 2003/04, budget execution has been in line with the agreed
budget. The defense spending levels envisioned for 2003/04 were set out explicitly inthe budget
that donors endorsed in May 2003.5 The Defense Review, now completed, is being studied by
Government and will eventually be shared with donors and other stakeholders.                 Most o f the
spending recommendations emerging from this review are expected to affect the budget in
2004/05 and beyond.

Fiscal deficit
54. The overall deficit, excluding grants narrowed marginally from 11.3 percent in 2002/03 to
11.2 percent in 2003/04 (Figure 3).           Budget execution on the other hand for 2003/04 was
interrupted due to supplementary spending o f about 0.9 percent o f GDP in the last quarter for
security needs, shortfalls in salaries and support State House. The deficit i s projected to decline to
10.9 percent in 2004/05, through a combination o f expenditure restraint and increased revenue
mobilization. These deficits have been more than fully funded by donor inflows, allowing the
Government on balance to provide some modest net credit to the rest o f the economy. As noted
above, however, the needto sterilize these inflows to maintain monetarypolicy objectives has led
to large issues o f Treasury bills, and the costs of servicing this debt have risen from 5.4 percent o f
total public expenditures in 1999/00 to more than 6.5 percent in 2002/03, further limiting
Government's flexibility in budgetary management. Government policy i s to reduce the fiscal
deficit over time, through increased domestic revenue mobilization and tighter expenditure
controls. Even so, the country's development needs call for increased spending in a number o f
sectors.

55. Balancing these competing priorities will require renewed efforts to reduce nonessential
spending, particularly in the area of public administration. In the 2003/04 budget, public
administration received Ushs 380.1 billion, up from Ushs 367 billion in the previous year and
now accounts for 16.2 percent o f the budget.




 Budgetary management in 2002103 was complicatedby Government's decision to increase defense
spending inthe middle o f the financial year inorder to deal with insecurity problems inthe North. After
some discussion, Government agreed to limit the defense spending increase and more tightly control
spending on public administration, to reduce the impact o f the spendingincrease on non-Poverty Action
Fundexpenditures. (The needto ensure that actual spending in2002103 was inline with this understanding
ledto a delay inthe presentation o f PRSC 3 to the World Bank Board.) At the same time, Government
agreed that future large increases indefense spending would be basedon the outcome o f a defense review.
Ineffect, the combined spending overrunfor defense andpublic administration in2002/03 was slightly less
than inthe previous year.

                                                   16

Figure 3: Government Expenditure and Deficit, Uganda, 1997/98-2003/04 (% of GDP)



 1     30.0  I                                                                                 I
       20.o
  CI
  g    10.0
  $     0.0
  P
      -10.0

      -20.0

             I Expenditurre
                Public                                    Domestic Revenue
                Deficit (excluding grants)                Deficit (including grants)



Sustainability of external debt
56. Government i s updating its debt sustainability analysis with assistance from the Bank and the
IMF. This should be completed around the same time as the third                       Meanwhile, based on
preliminary results from the Government's exercise, the IMF staff have prepared estimates o f
debt indicators as at end-2002/03, and future projections.             The Fund estimates that the net-
present-value o f debt to exports ratio - assumingfull delivery o f HIPC relief - was 258 percent at
end 2002/03. This compares to 209 percent projected for end-2002103 at the time o f the last
update o f Uganda's debt sustainability in 2002.          The deterioration in the ratio entirely reflects
changes in exogenous factors - notably lower international interest rates and a weaker US dollar.
Uganda's exports are actually higher, and new borrowing has been lower than had been projected
under the last full debt sustainability analysis. New borrowing was lower than projected inpart
because IDA was able to disburse PRSC3 as a grant rather than a credit. At 31 percent and 9
percent respectively, the ratios o f the net-present-value of debt to GDP and debt service to exports
remain well within H P C guidelines.

57. Government i s making progress in securing debt relief commitments under the H P C
initiative. Inthe past, it has received debt relief from the OPEC Fundand the Republic o f Korea,
and the Government o f India has cancelled all government claims on Uganda. Recently, the
Government o f Japan cancelled remaining claims ( U S 5 7 million) on Uganda, and the
Government o f Libya agreed to submit legislation to its parliament providing for debt relief for
Uganda.

External financing requirements
58. Uganda's overall external financing requirements for 2004105-2006/07 are estimated at US$
2,189 million, including grants and loans (Table 4). Based on the commitments indicated by
development partners, project disbursements are expected to reach US$ 938 million, of which
US$ 669 million are projected to be in grants and US$ 249 million in loans.                        Program
disbursements are projected to be US$ 1,253 million, o f which US$ 734 million will be in the
form o f grants. The proposed PRSC4 would constitute part o f IDA'Scontribution to filling the
external financing gag, and i s included in these estimates. Therefore, provided all development
partners fulfill their commitments, the residual financing gap for the next three years i s projected
to be US$ 32 million. Uganda's medium-term financing requirements will be reviewed in light


  Government's preliminary estimates o f the NPV o f external debt to exports ratio are conducted on a legal
basis. They are therefore higher than the figures for the unconditional delivery o f enhancedHIPC relief,
Government's preliminary results suggest the ratio on the legal basis slightly exceeded 300% as o f end-
2002103.

                                                    17

o f the actual availability o f extemal financing.

Table IV: Uganda's External FinancingRequirements,2004/05-2007/07 (US$ million)

                                                                                       3 Year Average
                                                2004105   2005/06        2006107       2004/05-2006/07
 Overall Deficit (cash basis) excluding grants  790.65     724.45         674.34          2189.44
    Project Grants                              239.85     214.63         214.62           669.10
    ProgramGrants                               248.36     244.81         240.96           734.13
 Overall Deficit (cash basis) including grants  -112.66    -286.55       -251.30           -650.52


 Financing                                      238.85     242.43         300.76           782.03
 Foreign                                        143.71     172.22         183.42           499.35
    Projects                                     96.64      76.38          76.43           249.45
    Programs                                    128.69     185.50         205.45           519.64
    Commercial Borrowing                         0.00        0.00           0.oo             0.00
    Amortization due                            -84.12      -79.23        -79.12           -242.47
    Exceptional Financing                        2.50       -10.44        -19.33            -27.26
      Payment of external arrears                -3.00      -12.81         -21.58           -37.39
      Deferred debt payment                      2.00        0.00           0.oo             2.00
      HIPC-Rescheduling                          3.51        2.37           2.25             8.13
 Domestic                                        95.14      70.22         117.34            282.69
    Bank Financing                               76.61      60.73         108.34            245.68
    Non-Bank Financing                           18.53       9.49           8.99            37.01


 Emors and Omissions


 Residual Financing Gap                          126.18     -44.12         49.45             32.61


Source: World Bank Staff estimates.


Regional integration
59. In March 2004 the Heads o f State o f the East African Community (Kenya, Tanzania, and
Uganda) signed a protocol to transform the present East African preferential trade area into a
customs union by the secondhalf o f 2004. The target date may slip unless the three countries and
the Community Secretariat speedily conclude the preparations, which include the ratification of
the protocol by all three parliaments. The Customs Union will have a common external tariff
with three bands: 0 percent on raw materials and capital goods; 10percent on intermediate goods
and parts; and 25 percent on finished goods. Uganda had lobbied for a lower common extemal
tariff and for a different tariff classification for some goods, and there are concerns now that
Ugandan manufacturers might become less competitive, since some o f their inputs formerly
classified as raw materials with a tariff rate of 0 percent are now classified as intermediate goods
with a tariff rate o f 10 percent. Agreement has been reached on duty-free and quota-free trade
arrangements between Uganda and Tanzania, and on duty-free imports o f Ugandan and
Tanzanian goods into Kenya. Exports from Kenya will still face tariffs inUganda and Tanzania,
butthe tariffs will be reducedto zero over a five-year period.

60. Initial estimates show that Uganda will lose around Ush 75 billion resulting the first year o f
implementation o f the common external tariff. This loss needs attention in the context o f the
Government's goals o fraising domestic revenue andreducing the fiscal deficit.




                                                     18

  IV.UGANDA'SPOVERTYREDUCTION STRATEGYAND PROGRESSTOWARDS
                         THE MILLENNIUMDEVELOPMENTGOALS

61. Uganda produced its first PEAP in 1997 through broad consultative processes involving all
relevant stakeholders, and revised it in 2000, in line with Government's original commitment to
revise the plan every three years. The second PEAP spells out Government's current strategy for
economic growth and poverty reduction, and i s organized around four pillars. A summary o f the
second PEAP formed the basis for Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which was
presented to the ,World Bank and IMF Boards in 2000. The revision o f the second PEAP began
inJune 2003 and the thirdPEAPis expectedto be submitted to Parliament for final discussions in
the second half o f 2004.'

                                            RevisedPEAP2004

62. The World Bank, UNDevelopment Program, and other development partners have extended
assistance to Uganda for the development o f the third PEAP. Broad stakeholder participation
remains an essential feature o f the PEAP process, which i s coordinated by the Ministry o f
Finance, Planning, and Economic Development. All stakeholders including most government
ministries and departments, civil society, the private sector, and development partners have been
actively involved. Members o f civil society have made positive contributions through workshops
and seminars, and much analytical work underpins the discussions. One o f the key institutions
conducting the analytical work i s the Uganda Economic Policy Research Center.

63, Five pillars or components have beenproposed to form the thirdPEAP:

    Economic management. Key priorities in economic management are the maintenance of
macroeconomic stability; fiscal consolidation; export promotion; and boostingprivate investment.

    Production, competitiveness, and incomes. Key priorities in this area are the modernization
o f agriculture; preservation o f the natural resource base, particularly soil and forests; and
development o f infrastructure including roads, electricity, and railways. Better maintenance,
cost-reduction, and private sector participation will be key to achieving improvements in a tight
fiscal situation.

    Securip, conflict-resolution, and disaster management. The key priorities inthis area are to
end rebel insurgency, by peaceful means if possible; end cattle-rustling; and deal with internal
displacement, which i s a major source o f distress incontemporary Uganda.

    Governance.Here the key priorities are human rights and democratization; development of a
better legal system; transparency, accountability, and the elimination o f corruption.

    Human development. Key priorities are primary and secondary education, with a clear focus
on quality and learning and on better targeting o f public secondary education to those who could
not otherwise afford it; improving health outcomes through joint work by several sectors;
increasing people's ability to plan the size of their families; and adult literacy.

64. Unlike the second PEAP, the third PEAP has a section on "public expenditure to implement
the PEAP". The section will highlight effects o f increased public expenditure; budget allocation
priorities for poverty reduction; classification o f sectors; scope for cost-saving; implementing


'Inthe  interimyears when the PEAP i s not revised, Government prepares an annual PEAPPRSP progress
report. This progress report i s one o f Government's key instruments to monitor implementation, analyze
trends, and highlight problems and challenges; it i s also an essential inputinto the budget process. The first
progress report was presentedto the Bank's Boardjointly with PRSCl inM a y 2001, The second report
accompanied PRSC2 to the Board inJuly 2002, and the third report was presentedjointly with PRSC3 in
September 2003.

                                                    19

expenditure priorities: wages and pensionissues; medium-term expenditure framework and long-
term expenditure framework; the role and future o f the Poverty Action Fund; and budget
execution and efficiency.

65. The third PEAP also has a section on monitoring and evaluation, identifying targets for the
PEAP; performance targets for the PEAP (related to budget framework); long-run targets and
MillenniumDevelopment Goals; and a monitoring framework.

66. The Board will receive more information on the third PEAP in the context o f the discussion
o f the revised Uganda country assistance strategy and the joint staff assessment o f the PRSP,
scheduled for later in2004.

                      Progresstowards the MillenniumDevelopment Goals

67. As noted above?Uganda i s on track for achieving the Millennium Development Goals related
to poverty reduction, gender equality in education, HIV/AIDS, and access to safe water. The
MDGs call for reducing the proportion of the population in poverty to 28 percent by 2015; the
proportion in Uganda was 38 percent in 2003. Gender equality has been achieved in primary
education, and the MDG on HIV/AIDS has already been achieved, though efforts are needed to
bringdown the prevalence rate further. Inwater supply, projections show the achievement o f 100
percent access to safe water by the year 2015 in urban and rural areas. While the Government i s
on track to achieve 100 percent net enrollment rates in primary education by 2015, the
achievement o f universal completion of primary school by that time i s uncertain, since dropout
rates remain high.(For Uganda's country profile on the MDGs, see Annex 6.)
68. As the PRSC i s the Bank's main instrument for supporting reforms in education, health, and
water supply, it i s probably the Bank's most important contribution to furthering the Millennium
Development Goals inUganda.

                            V. WORLD BANKGROUP STRATEGY

              Consistencywith the 2000-2003 country assistance strategy (CAS)

69. The 2000-2003 CAS established the PRSC operation as the core o f IDA'S support for
Uganda. The strategy planned for a first series o f three annual consecutive PRSCs, which have
been completed within the time-frame o f the CAS. The three operations established a rolling
medium-term reform program in support o f Government's poverty reduction strategy. A
stocktaking report o f the series has been completed, and an ICR i s about to be finalized and the
conclusions are very positive. It i s the clear expectation o f Government, development partners
and the World Bank team that the PRSC operation will continue to form the core of IDA'S
support for Uganda.

70. Preparation o f a new assistance strategy has been delayed to allow full alignment and
consistency with the new PEAP. In order to achieve greater donor harmonization and coherence
among donor support and the PEAP, it i s envisaged that the Bank together with interested donors
will prepare a Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS) instead o f the traditional Bank CAS. It i s
expected that the UJAS will be presented to the Bank's Board in fiscal 2005. The results-
orientation and the reform agenda o f the PRSCs, as well as the lessons emerging from the
PRSC1-3 stocktaking exercise have provided important inputsto the UJAS, while the next cluster
o f PRSCs will be integral and significant components o f the total World Bank support for
Uganda.

71. The UJAS reviews the PRSC instrument's future scope and directions and will propose that
the PRSC continues as the core instrument for support o f Uganda's PEAP. The continuation is
justified on three grounds: (i) PEAP has evolved to be the overarching framework for policy
                                the


                                               20

dialogue and formulation, both within Uganda and between Government and the development
partners; (ii) the conclusion from the stocktakmg report i s that Government, development partners
and the World Bank team finds the PRSC to be the single best instrument to support the PEAP;
and (iii)  continued progress inplanning and budget management provides confidence that public
resource allocations are consistent with PEAP priorities.

72. It i s envisaged that PRSC support will coexist with investment support e.g. to private sector
development and infrastructure, and technical assistance for the strengthening o f government
systems and capacities necessary for increased reliance on program support. The PRSC will
continue to address policy issues related to those sectors. This approach, in which the PRSC
covers cross-cutting issues and policy dialogue,        and those sector programs that are well
established, provides scope for learning for both the Bank and the government as well as
continued evaluation o f the appropriateness o f this approach.

                                  Stocktakingof UgandaPRSCs

73. A stocktaking o f PRSCs 1 - 3 has been finalized. The findings reflect consultations with
Government, donors, and Bank staff through workshops, videoconferences, and personal
interviews. PRSCs are perceived to be the single best vehicle for helping Uganda to advance its
system-wide reform process and a number o f its key components such as service delivery and
crosscutting issues.

74. The stocktaking finds that the amount and coverage of most targeted services have increased
and that the quality o f some services has improved. Progress has also been made in a number o f
crosscutting areas including procurement, financial management, and law and order. External
resource flows have increased over the PRSC period and budget support has become the
dominant mode o f aid provision.         Aid transaction costs are perceived as having declined.
Government ownership and donor coordination mechanisms have improved, with sector working
groups playing a critical role; coordination among Government ministries i s also deemed to have
improved. Uganda's stagnant infant and maternal mortality rates are the main cause o f concern.

75. Challenges identified include: whether PRSCs should focus more on income generation; the
tendency to overload this instrument; the need to clarify a graduated response where reforms are
off-track; the importance o f identifying and measuring results; and the weak capacity in local
governments.

76. The stocktaking process has been open and the issues have been raised and discussed with
Government and development partners inthe course of preparing PRSC4. Action i s being taken
to focus more on results and the CAS process will advance discussion o f other issues.

                          AnalyticalUnderpinnings of the PRSCProgram

77. The PRSCs are underpinned by broad economic and sector work on Uganda, including
analysis o f a series of regular surveys', much of it commissioned as inputsto the PEAP revision,
and by analytical work to refine specific aspects o f reform programs (Figure 4). The following
work has been particularly important inpreparing PRSC4.

78, Poverty assessment. Government carries out biannual household surveys to analyze, among
other things, poverty trends and dynamics. The surveys which cover the entire country provide a
rich source o f information on household socio-economic characteristics including, consumption
expenditures, employment, and access to social services, etc. The results of the latest survey,
covering over 9,000 representative households, became available in November 2003, and have
guided revisions to the PRSC, PEAP, and country assistance strategy. Government has pioneered


 The Householdsurvey, National Service Delivery Survey, National Integrity Survey, Enterprise Survey,
Demographic and Health Survey, value for money and tracking surveys, including the HIPC tracking.

                                                21

the use o f participatory poverty assessments to provide information on non-income dimensions o f
poverty. The results o f the (2002) Second Poverty Assessment have been taken into account in
the PRSC design. As noted earlier, the Bank i s also analyzing the reasons for the increase in
poverty headcount, to be better able to advise on future policy reform.

79. Public expenditure reviews. IDA carries out annual public expenditure reviews jointly with
Government and other development partners. These reviews assess the consistency o f public
spending with PEAP priorities, the integration o f staffing and wage bills within the medium-term
expenditure framework, trends in beneficiary assessment and public accountability, and the
solvency o f pension systems. They also assess resource flows to sectors and districts and monitor
the consistency o f annual expenditure outturns with policy targets and outputs. The reviews
culminate in annual workshops in which all stakeholders jointly review the performance o f the
budget and comment on the appropriateness o f the medium-term expenditure framework. This
year the PER, CFAA and CPAR were coordinated through an integrated Fiduciary assessment
approach and the outcome o f that i s the CIFA report. The report synthesizes the findings o f each
o f the components in an integrated way and also provides an action plan.

80. A number o f sector and cross-sector studies have been carried out to support work on
procurementreform, public service reform, education, and health, rural/micro finance, and private
and financial sector development. These studies include the following: :

      "Skills Gap in Public Service'' commissioned by the Government, documents the extent to
which Government i s unable to recruit and retain enough skilled personnel;

     A study of family care practices confirms that practices at the family and community level
account for much o f the high infant and child mortality. It emphasizes that interventions to
improve health facilities needto be complemented by due attention to these practices;

     "Uganda Post-primary Education Sector Report", published by the Africa Region's Human
Development Working Paper series analyzes the secondary education sector. The "Uganda
Tertiary Education Sector Report" has also been published in the HD series. Bank staff also
prepared a technical note on persistence and dropout and shared this with Government and other
development partners.

     "Uganda Administrative Barriers to Investment", a study conducted for the Ministry o f
Finance, Planning, and Economic Development by the Foreign Investment Advisory Service,
recommends steps to help improve the environment for foreign and domestic investment;

      "Uganda Investment Climate Assessment", conducted by the Bank's Africa Regional
Program on Enterprise Development, provides data and cross-country comparisons on
performance o f Uganda's enterprises, labor, and capital productivity, investment climate, and key
constraints; and

     "Challenges and Financing of Social Security and Pension Reform in Uganda", produced by
the Social Security Transition Group based on widespread consultations, articulates public desires
and priorities for social protection.

Figure4: Analytical Underpinnings of the PEAP and PRSC

                                   Julv 2004                  Julv 2005                         Julv 2006


                                                                  ~~



   Examples of        SecondParticipatoryPoverty    Povertyand SocialImpact          Institutional and govemance
   Analytical work    Assessment                    Assessment(PSIA)                 review
   by Gov. WB and     HIF'C Tracking Study          Householdsurvey                  Analysis of decentralization
   nthrrr             Public ExpenditureReview      Third NationalIntegrity Survey   Analysis ofWSS delivery
                      (PER)                         SecondEnterpriseSurvey           Rural development assessment
                      Administrative Bamers to      Country Financial                HIPC tracking update
                      Investment                    Accountability Report            PER
                      InvestmentClimate Assessment  Studies on export promotion and  Povertyand SocialImpact
                     Financing Social Security      diversification                  Assessment
                      Reform                        HIPC tracking update
                     Micro Finance Survey           PER
                      Skill Gap Study inPublic      Defense review
                      Service                       Povertyand Social Impact
                      Public Administration         Assessment
                      E"..~"A;+,,Ya

                      DevelopmentPartnerAlignment and Coordination

81, Several factors favor effective donor alignment in Uganda. The PEAP itself i s the basis for
all donor coordination. The PRSC i s developed inthe context o f a set o f "Partnership Principles"
that were articulated in2003 by development partners and the Government. These principles aim
to harmonize development partners' behavior, strengthen the Government's systems, reduce
transaction costs for both Government and its development partners, and increase the
predictability o f budget support. For the PRSC specifically, Principles for Determining Prior
Actions have also been developed and agreed by Government and development partners in 2004
(Annex 3).

82. Just as important as these formal agreements are the open and inclusive processes that
characterize the PRSC in Uganda. Bilateral and multilateral development partners participate
actively in PRSC missions and other discussions, and there are regular meetings between
development partners, Government, and the Bank. Development partners have considerable
influence and insight in the PRSC process, and the program document i s shared among
development partners, Bank, and Government.

83. Much o f the budget support from development partners i s contingent upon the World Bank
Board's approval o f the PRSC: about US$ 134 million a year from the United Kingdom,
Netherlands, Ireland, Norway, Sweden, and Germany i s explicitly linked to the PRSC9AfDB has
designed, incollaboration with Government and other development partners, a Poverty Reduction
Support Loan that i s consistent with the PRSC and supports some aspects o f it.

84. Bilateral development partners impose additional conditions upon Government, but these
conditions are increasingly being coordinated and consolidated, with the development o f a
Political Governance Matrix that resembles the Policy Results Matrix inthis document (Schedule
2), but deals with issues of a more political nature. Government has welcomed the fact that
development partners are adopting shared, compatible benchmarks, because this reduces
transactions costs for all parties and increases the predictability o fbudget support.

Coordinationwiththe InternationalMonetaryFund
85. In Uganda the IMF concentrates on macroeconomic and financial sector issues, focusing
specifically on short- and medium-term macroeconomic stability, financial sector regulation and
supervision, and long-term sustainability. As before, IDA staff will closely collaborate and
coordinate activities with IMF staff. Inparticular, the staffs o f the two institutions will continue
preparing updated debt sustainability analyses for Uganda, annualjoint assessments o f the PRSP,
 and annual PRSP progress reports.           The staffs are coordinating their efforts on fiscal
decentralization, financial sector reform, and governance issues.

 86. The IMF Board approved a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility arrangement in
 September 2002. The first, second and third reviews o f the PRGF-supported program were
 completed in June 2003, December 2003 and July 2004 respectively. On each occasion, the
macroeconomic situation was found to be satisfactory, although waivers were needed for missed
performance criteria. In general, the social and many o f the structural and governance reforms
 will be supported by the PRSC, while the PRGF structural program will support improvements in
 tax administration, public expenditure management, monitoring and accountability o f local
 government operations, financial sector issues, and debt management.




  UK:$72 million; Netherlands:$30million; Ireland:$11.3million; Norway: $7.5 million; Sweden: $6.5
 million; and Germany: $6.3 million.

                                                 23

                                   VI.THEPROPOSEDGRANT

87. The proposed grant i s a core operation to implement the objectives o f the PEAP/PRSP and
the World Bank Group country assistance strategy. As detailed above, Uganda has achieved
several key program benchmarks in the areas o f equitable and efficient use o f public resources,
crosscutting public sector reforms including anti-corruption, rural development, and delivery o f
education, health, and water and sanitation services.

                                         GrantAdministration

Borrower andgrant amount
88. The Borrower i s the Republic o f Uganda. A single-tranche grant o f SDR 102.6 million (US$
150 million equivalent) would be made available upon effectiveness, anticipated for October
2004. The closing date o f the grant would be September 30,2005.

Rationalefor IDA GrantUse
89. In light o f its status as a debt vulnerable country with a gross national income per capita less
than US$360, and the proportion o f IDA grant it received in fiscal year 2003/04, Uganda i s
eligible in fiscal year 2005 for 58 percent o f its projected lending, or about US$190 million, on
grant terms. Of this amount, US$l50 million i s proposed to be applied to PRSC4 for the
following reasons:

90. Impact on education, health, and water and sanitation: PRSC aims to improve public service
delivery, in particular the access to and quality o f basic services-education, health, and water
and sanitation. PRSC i s the Bank's key instrument to support Government's reforms in these
sectors.     All Bank's assistance to education and water and sanitation sectors is currently
channeled through PRSC, while in the health sector self-standing investment projects are
providing support in parallel. The PRSC reform program supports the overall development o f
these sectors, and will help the Government to achieve significant results inthese areas.

91. Several other donors have increased the share o f budget support intheir assistance inthe past
couple o f years, and are providing parallel financing for implementation o f the PRSC reform
program in the form o f grants. By aligning donors' support, the program has become a key
mechanism to support PEAP/PRSP implementation, and has allowed the Government to scale up
it efforts, thereby enhancingprospects for achieving selectedMDGs.

92. Timing of IDA grant delivery: To have a positive effect on debt sustainability, IDA grants
need to be provided at a pace and level consistent with program reforms. For Uganda, PRSC i s
the preferred operation to deliver the grant component since PRSCs are delivered annually and
linked with the Government's budget cycle; and PRSCs are disbursed in a single tranche. This
will improve Govemment's ability to influence the delivery o f the grant component, and help the
Government's debt management. The grant component, if delivered as planned, will improve
Uganda's debt sustainability projections.

MonitoringResults ofIDA Grant
93. The impact o f the Grant will be monitored within the results o f the overall operation (see
section on implementation and monitoring below for details).            Since PRSC provides non-
earmarked external finance through the Government's budget, it i s not feasible to separate the
impact o f the Grant from other government spending. A number o f other donors are providing
parallel financing, so monitoring will focus on overall performance o f sectors and achievement o f
time-bound quantitativetargets.




                                                 24

Disbursement,reporting, and auditing arrangements
94. The grant will follow IDA'Ssimplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations";
thus the proceeds will be disbursed in compliance with the stipulated single tranche release
conditions. Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases. Once the Bank's Board
approves the grant, the Borrower will open and maintain a dedicated deposit account in U S
dollars for the Borrower's use. As the single tranche i s released on grant effectiveness, IDA will
disburse the proceeds o f the grant into the deposit account. Thereafter, at the request o f the
Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development the US dollar amount will be
converted to Uganda shillings at the Bank o f Uganda for the credit o f the Government account
(Consolidated Fund Account), to be used subsequently for public expenditures. If, after deposit
in the deposit account, the proceeds o f the grant or any part thereof are used for ineligible
purposes, as defined in the Development Grant Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower to
either: (a) return that amount to the deposit account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the
amount directly to IDA.

95. Through the Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development, the Borrower will:
(a) report the exact sum received into the deposit account; (b) indicate to IDA details o f the
Consolidated Fund Account to which the Uganda shillings equivalent o f the grant proceeds will
be credited; (c) report to IDA the equivalent in the local currency o f the U S dollar amount
withdrawn from the deposit account producing evidence that the local currency sum was paid into
the Consolidated Fund Account and that disbursements from that account were for budgeted
public expenditures other than those on IDA'Snegative list; and (d) submit a report on receipts
and disbursements for both the deposit account and Consolidated Fundto enable IDA to review
the consistency o f the withdrawal with the Development Grant Agreement and the objectives o f
the grant operation. This information should be submitted within six months subsequent to grant
disbursement.
96. The controls described above are intended to provide assurance that IDA funds have arrived
at their intended destination, are being used for their intended purpose o f fundingbudgetedpublic
expenditures, and are subject to the Borrowers' rules and regulations. The following summarizes
the external audits:

0   Deposit account. The deposit account will be independently audited according to terms o f
reference acceptable to IDA within six months o f grant disbursement.

0   Audits. A support team o f technical advisors to assist in improving audits will augment the
capacity o f the Auditor General.

0   Public (government) accounts. The Auditor General is required by law to produce hisher
annual report to Parliament on the public accounts within nine months o f the financial year-end.
IDAwill have access to those accounts.

0   Bank of Uganda. The annual entity financial statements o f the Bank o f Uganda, audited in
accordance with international auditing standards as promulgated by the International Federation
o f Accountants, are publicly available.
97. The Country Financial Accountability Report on Uganda concluded that the central and local
government financial management systems represent high fiduciary risk.                    The major
recommendations contained in that report have been reflected in the reform program that the
PRSCs have been supporting. The challenge will be to secure the effective implementation o f
those recommendations in practice. In that regard, Government's assiduous monitoring o f the
financial management reform initiatives i s critical.



loOperational Memorandum: Simplifying Disbursements under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans,
February 8, 1996.

                                                25

EnvironmentalandResettlementIssues
98. The proposed PRSC4 has been classified as a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC), and i s
subject to World Bank Operations Policy 4.0 1, Environmental Assessment. In accordance with
OP 4.01, PRSC4 has been classified as a Category B, not requiring a separate environmental
assessment.    Thus it will continue to build on environmental analyses in health, water and
sanitation, and rural development that were conducted for PRSCI, PRSC2, and PRSC3. The
activities supported by PRSC4 continue for the most part along the lines o f these earlier
operations.   They are not expected to result in major adverse or irreversible environmental
impacts. Safeguard measures will ensure that potential adverse impacts will be screened and that
provisions are in place to mitigate impacts o f concern. (For details o f the environmental analysis
underlying the proposed PRSC4, see Annex 5, which has been disclosed in Uganda and through
the World Bank Info shop.)

99. Environmental risks associated with the proposed PRSC4 stem from medical waste, the
buildingo f school facilities, several environmental designand sustainability issues inthe building
o f water supply and sanitation facilities, and the use o f pesticides in agnculture. Social concerns
include access to safe drinking water and economic strategies to expand point source and network
coverage to those who cannot afford such services, and community participation in choosing
water services and associated commitments to operation and maintenance. Conflicts and other
social issues may arise with regard to land use and common property resources. Government and
the implementing agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental sustainability for
affected sectors. IDA continues to work with its counterparts in Government to create a viable
framework for identifying and monitoring key safeguard issues. PRSC support i s concentrating
on pesticides, through the National Agriculture Advisory Services project, and continuing its
attention to policy dialogue with Government over the resettlement policies.

                                 ImplementationandMonitoring

Monitoringthe resultsofthe grant
100.     The impact of the Grant will be monitored within the results o f the overall PEAP/PRSP,
the monitoring arrangements for which are spelled out in Uganda's Poverty Monitoring and
Evaluation Strategy. A number of other development partners are providing parallel financing, so
monitoring will focus on the overall performance o f sectors and the achievement o f time-bound
quantitative targets. Though the arrangements are still under development, outcome and output
targets have been identified for all areas, and quantitative monitorable indicators have been
identified for most. Monitoring i s increasingly ajoint effort between the Government, IDA, other
development partners, and civil society in the context o f the PRSC review process, PEAPPRSP,
and sector reviews.

101.     Monitoring of sectoral performance: Sectoral performance i s monitored mainly by
ministries and agencies. For the education, health, water and sanitation, and justice, law, and
order sectors, Government has established a consistent set o f monitoring indicators and time-
bound quantitative targets for inputs and outputs that are tracked at regular intervals. A subset o f
the key indicators i s included in the PRSC quantitative target matrix. To collect the needed data
on indicators and to monitor progress in achieving the targets, the education, health, and water
and sanitation sectors have established management information systems that collect information
from each service point.      In addition, all these sectors conduct annual expenditure tracking
surveys to monitor the flow o f funds, and value-for-money studies have also become common.
Biannually, Government and its development partners assess the performance o f each sector,
discuss emerging issues, and agree on new undertakings and quantitativetargets.

 102.    Monitoring of development outcomes:         At the national level, Government monitors
development outcomes and impact to assess progress in achieving PEAPPRSP objectives. Key
monitoring mechanisms for poverty and sector-level outcomes include regular household, service


                                                 26

delivery, integrity, enterprise, demographic,        and health surveys.        In addition, periodic
participatory poverty assessments and other surveys are carried out. The results o f these surveys
and other evaluations, and further analysis o f development trends, are reflected in annual
PEAP/PRSP progress reports.

103,    Coordination of PEAP and PRSC implementation. The Cabinet has approved a new set
of Government-wide coordination arrangements for the poverty reduction reforms.                 These
establish three committees: at Cabinet level under the Prime Minister, at Permanent Secretary
level under the Head o f Service/Secretary to Cabinet; and at the technical level under the
Permanent Secretary in the Office o f the Prime Minister or the Permanent Secretary in the
Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Economic Development The Prime Minister's Office is
responsible for servicing these new coordination arrangements, and so the coordination o f the
PRSC programs will over time be shifted from the Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic
Development to that Office. The PRSC team has helped to work out the transition arrangements,
and will continue to provide support as appropriate. A sustainable solution will not only require
budget allocations for these functions, but also much work by the Prime Minister's Office, which
lacks experience in this coordinating role, to operationalize the Cabinet memorandum and to
professionalize the necessary functions.

Supervision
104.     Supervision and preparation o f PRSC4, like its predecessors, will take place in close
collaboration with other development partners and be consistent with the PEAPPRSP review
mechanism. The Government will report quarterly to IDA and other development partners on the
progress made ineach PRSC program area. Inaddition, the achievement o f PRSC targets will be
assessed annually in the context of the preparation o f the PRSP progress report. The reform
program supported by PRSCs sets out clear quantitative and qualitative benchmarks and targets
for three years, which are fully consistent with PEAP/PRSP. The benchmarks for later years are
guideposts to signal when progress i s more or less advanced than expected in any given area. If
progress i s considered adequate, Uganda's reform program will be supported through subsequent
PRSCs under the programmatic lending framework, subject to the approval o f the Board o f
Executive Directors.

                                         Benefitsand Risks

Benefits
 105.   The proposed grant will help to advance Government's PEAP/PRSP objectives o f
reducing poverty and improving welfare in Uganda. It supports the economic and institutional
environment for the sustained implementation o f PEAP/PRSP reforms.                       It underpins
Government's objectives by providing external resources needed for the execution o f the
Government's budget, and by providing knowledge and technical advice for the implementation
o f Uganda's poverty reduction reforms. By supporting the budget and by ensuring technical
assistance to key areas o f the reform, the grant promotes the work o f the vital institutions in
Govemment, strengthening their capacity and capability for planning and implementation. Other
specific benefits fall along the objectives o f the four pillars o f the second PEAP, the grant:

0   promotes efficient and equitable use o f public resources by supporting the alignment o f
budget and budget execution;

0   benefits governance inUganda by supportingreforms inkey institutions to reduce corruption,
improve the efficiency o f public procurement, and strengthen financial management, the justice
system, and civil society participation;

e   benefits the rural poor by supporting an enabling environment for transition from subsistence
to commercial agriculture, and benefits Uganda's environment through support for improved
environmental sustainability;and

                                                 27

0   benefits the quality o f life o f the poor by supporting the delivery o f basic services to them.
The grant provides the only Bank Group support-financial             and technical-for    the education,
health, and water and sanitation sectors.


Risks and effortsto mitigatethem
106.     The risks facing the program can be broadly classified into two categories: risks that
reflect the broader context inUganda, andrisks that pertain inparticular to the PRSC reforms.

Risks thatreflectthebroader contextin Uganda:
107.     A transitional political environment which may distract Uganda's attention from timely
implementation o f its policy reforms and from the growth and poverty reduction agenda. A
strong and stable Government apparatus below the political-appointment level could help to
mitigate the risks that are associated with a transitional political environment. As discussed
above, the PRSC reforms seek to strengthen Government institutions, public administration
agencies, and service delivery ministries.

108.     Continued insecurity and the socio-economic challenges posed by the 17-year conflict in
the North and the cattle-rustling related insecurity in the East. Conflict has affected a large
segment o f Uganda's poor, heightening regional disparities. The destruction o f the livelihoods o f
the communities living in these areas has resulted in very high or rising (as in the East) poverty
levels and displaced some 1.2 million persons. The World Bank, working with other partners,
will continue to support the provision o f better social services in the areas ravaged by war and
insecurity.

109.      Corruption. Where economic and social advancement are driven by nepotism and graft
rather than by entrepreneurship, productivity, and a level playing field, the consequences are
clearly negative for investment and growth. The Ugandan public sees corruption-particularly
petty corruption-as a serious problem. Through the PRSC-supported reform process, the Bank
will work with like-minded donors to support a more vigorous implementation o f Uganda's
national anti-corruptionplan inconjunction with public service reformmeasures.

110.      Weak institutional and public sector workforce capacity, particularly at sub-national
levels. As noted in the Bank Group's current country assistance strategy document it i s o f key
importance for Uganda to address the pervasive weaknesses at the central and particularly the
district levels." Strong ownership o f the PEAP agenda by Government and the civil society, and
the ongoing public sector reforms including pay-reform, should all contribute to sustained
improvementsinpublic capabilities and inter-linkages.

 111.    Exogenous shocks, arising from adverse weather patterns or terms of trade, or from
unfavorable     global developments with a particularly              deleterious effect    on Uganda's
predominantly rural economy. Supported by its donor partners, Uganda has been pursuingsound
macroeconomic policies, structural and institutional reforms, and measures to strengthen
infrastructure and human capacity that together are aimed at attracting and retaining investments,
improving access to markets, and enhancing competitiveness.

 112.     Poor mortality and reproductive health outcomes. Notwithstanding Uganda's gains in
the fight against HIV/AIDS, high infant mortality and maternal mortality, as well as a high
fertility rate, remain serious challenges. A multisectoral taskforce has been analyzing the
determinants o f infant and maternal mortality and has proposed strategies to tackle them. A
Population Secretariat i s looking at measures to address population questions, and these issues are
featured in the draft o f the third PEAP. Key development partners have been heavily engaged in



I'The CAS also stresses that "key decisionmaking can no longer be limited to the Ministry o fFinance;
sector ministries and civil society need to be more effectively engaged inthe development effort."

                                                   28

the health, water, and education sectors inthe context o f PRSCs and other stand-alone operations,
and are supportinginfant and maternal mortality-reducing initiatives.

 Risks specific to thePRSC:
113.     Diminution of the Inspector General of Government'spowers tofight corruption. Rulings
by the Constitutional court have diminishedthe powers o fthe Inspector General's office, and this
could significantly set back the progress made thus far against corruption. The PRSC will
continue to support reforms designed to assist the Inspector General's office to successfully carry
out its existing mandate.

114.     Stagnant public sewice reform agenda. The risk o f stagnation o f the public service
reform agenda could have long-term implications for many o f the reforms that are supported by
the PRSC. An integrated approach i s necessary to establish effective institutionalpractices and to
avoid overlap and duplication o f efforts inboth core and more peripheral agencies. PRSC4 has
emphasized the need to revamp the public service reform strategy, and for the future assist in its
implementation. The PRSC will continue to support the strong progress that has been achieved in
some areas o fpublic service reforms, such as inprocurement and financial management.

115.     Poor Government coordination of the implementation of the PEAP and PRSC. The
reformprogram contains multiple elements that require coordination and follow-up across sectors
and agencies. Weak institutions, duplication o f effort, and poor intersectoral linkages have made
it difficult to ensure well-coordinated implementationo fprevious PRSCs. The new Government-
wide PRSC coordination arrangements described above are promising, but, as noted, the
transitional phase-while      the responsibilities are transferred from the Ministry o f Finance,
Planning, and Economic Development to the Office of the Prime Minister-has          risks o f its own.
The Bank will continue to assist the Prime Minister's Office, the permanent secretaries'
committees, and other Cabinet-level structures, and has solicited other development partners in
these efforts.

 116.    Over-expansion and overload of the PRSC instrument. Uganda has opted for, and needs,
a broad based approach to its development. There are difficulties, however, in charging a single
Bank-supported instrument with too many elements o f the national reform agenda.
Government's difficulties in managing coordination are outlined above. While Bank teams are
multidisciplinary and are experienced in assisting Government at the economic, sectoral, and
technical level, the Uganda team has little institutional experience in implementing broad based
national reform agendas.        The same applies to most o f Uganda's development partners.
Channeling many o f the sectoral issues to the sector reviews mitigates the "overload".         But in
 supporting the PEAP and other national reform agendas, the Bank should also carefully utilize
other instruments that operationalize other selected areas o f the PEAP.




                                                 29

Schedule I:Letter of Development Policy




                                      30

    programming, and improving the focus o f Government's three-year rolling Medium
    Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) inthe fight against poverty.

    4. The PEAP i s being revised for a second time in the light o f progress obtained
    since 1997, including the development o f sector-wide approaches, the findings o f the
    Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Project (UPPAP 200l), constraints
                                                                          the
    identified inthe 1999 Poverty Status Report, and the development o f costing o fpublic
    actions and monitorable indicators in key poverty-oriented sectors. In addition, the
    PEAPtakes into consideration the sector investment plans completed so far, including
    the Education Sector Investment Plan (ESP), the 10-Year Strategic Plan for Main
    Roads (RSDP), the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP), the Plan for the
    Modemisation o f Agriculture (PMA), and the Medium Term Competitiveness
    Strategy for the Private Sector (MTCS). The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    (PRSP), which was endorsed by the Boards o f the World Bank and the International
    Monetary Fund in April/May 2000, is a summary o f the revised PEAP. The Poverty
    Status Report 2001 was the basis for the first PRSP progress report. In 2002,
    Government presentedits second PRSP Progress Report that was also being used as
    the summary o f Govemment's Background to the Budget document. Government
    prepared a Poverty Status Report for 2003 that served as the PRSP progress Report.
    This year, however the PRSP is being revised based on the lessons from the past
    progress and responses to emerging challenges.

5.      Government wishes to improve both the efficiency o f its delivery o f public
    services and the effectiveness o f these services in reducing poverty. While these
    concepts are interlinked, increased efficiency implies improved management systems
    and practices in the public sector, including improved financial accountability,
    Improved effectiveness implies a closer alignment between outcomes and policy
    objectives through greater focus on service outputs during budget preparation and
    implementation. Government i s therefore requesting the Fourth Poverty Reduction
    Support Credit (PRSC4) from the World Bank to support Govemment's reforms in
    these areas and help finance implementation o f the PEAP. The reform programme
    outlined below will help ensure the success o f the PEAP.

6.      The reformprogram outlined below is based on the Government's second Poverty
    Eradication Action Plan. As discussed above, Government has been reviewing the
    second PEAP over the past year and expects to complete its third PEAP just as
    implementation o f the reform program o f PRSC4 i s finalized. Because it i s important
    for the PRSC to be aligned with the national budget cycle, and for Uganda to have
    predictability in resource flows, Government has proceeded with implementing the
    agreed reform program that i s requested to be supported by PRSC4. Great care has
    been taken to ensure that the medium-term program i s consistent with the draft third
    PEAP, and consultations with Government and other Stakeholders. Government and
    the Bank team have agreed that the potential PRSC5 and the rolling three-year
    program would be adjusted to the third PEAP duringPRSCS preparations.

  The ReformProgram

                                           31

7.      Uganda has beenworking to revise the PEAP over the past year. This exercise i s
    about to be accomplished when the revised P E N is approved by Cabinet. The
    revised PEAP i s structured around five overarchingpillars namely;


        e       Economic management;
        e       Production, competitiveness and incomes;
        e       Security, conflict resolution and disaster management;
        a       Good governance ;and
        a       Humandevelopment.

        The existing sectors will remain unchanged, but will be aligned more closely with
        the new pillars. For example, at present the Education sector i s partly in Pillar
        One (Higher and Tertiary Education) and partly in Pillar Four (Primary and
        Secondary Education).

8.      However, as this proposal awaits approval at policy level, my submissionuses the
    existing four pillar framework namely.

        e       Rapid and sustainable economic growth and structural transformation;
        a       Good govemance and security;
        a       Increased ability o fthe poor to raise their incomes; and
        e       Enhanced quality o f life o f the poor.

9.      The selected policy reform measures set out below are grouped under the same
    four existing pillars. The specific and monitorable actions, that Government has
    proposed to undertake prior to presentation o f the PRSC4 to the World Bank Board,
    have all been implemented successfully. These are benchmarks that are seen as
    critical for progress and implementation o f the reform program. The detailed reform
    program i s described inthe attached Policy Results Matrix. The specific actions are:

         e      In the annual public expenditure review, Government has agreed with
                donors on the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for
                2003/04-2005/06,    and has executed the 2003/04 budget through the four
                quarters consistent with budget allocations.

         e      Ministries o f Public Service and Finance, Planning, and Economic
                Development will have effected salary adjustments consistent with the pay
                reform strategy and MTEF.


         e      Inspector General o f Government (IGG) completes the analysis o f
                declared assets and information collected from key categories o f leaders,
                initiates assets verification, investigates all complaints from the public
                received by November 2003, and presents a time-bound action plan for
                implementing the Leadership Code.



                                             32

                  The Ministry o f Local Government will have submitted to Cabinet the
                  draft Local Government Regulations and Disposal o f Assets Regulations
                  and proposals to amend the Local Government Act-particularly      on those
                  issues relating to the appointment and removal o f the tender boards
                  membersinthe local governments.

                  Ministries o f Public Service (MOPS) and Ministry o f Finance Planning,
                  and Economic Development will have completed a comprehensive draft
                  policy paper on issues, measures, and modalities for controlling the size o f
                  public administration sector and ensuringcost efficiency and effectiveness
                  inhuman resource development of the social sectors establishments, and
                  discussed this with social sector ministries.

                  Satisfactory implementation o f undertakings agreed in Education Sector
                  Review inMay 2003 and confirmed byNovember 2003 Review.

                  Satisfactory implementation o f undertakings agreed in Health Sector
                  Review inApril 2003 and confirmed byNovember 2003 Review.

                  Satisfactory implementation o f undertakings agreed in Water and
                  Sanitation Sector Review in September 2003 and confirmed by March
                  2004 Review.

   PEAP Pillar 1: Rapid and Sustainable Economic Growth and
   Structural Transformation: Efficient and Equitable Use of Public
   Resources

   T h e Macro-economy

10.        Since 1987, Government has implemented macro-economic and structural
       reforms aimed at restoring and maintaining macro-economic stability and improving
       Uganda's economic, social and institutional infrastructure. The results have been
       encouraging. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth has averaged about six
       percent per annum since 1987; annual headline inflation has averaged 4.7 percent
       since 1993/94 and international reserves have accumulated to comfortable levels o f
       about six months o f imports o f goods and services. Domestic Government revenue
       increased from 6 percent o f GDP in 1986187 to close to 12 percent currently, though
       the rate of growth has slowed in recent years. On the other hand, Government has
       been able to increase public expenditure from 8.6 percent o f GDP in 1986/87; to
       about 25.3 percent in 2001/02. However, this has led to an increase in the fiscal
       deficit excluding grant assistance, which peaked at 12.8 percent o f GDP in2001/02.

           The rapid growth in Government expenditure, in spite o f slower revenue growth,
           has been made possible through an increase in donor budget support funding.
           Government has consequently adopted a fiscal deficit reduction policy over the
           medium term, to minimise undue pressures on the exchange rate and private
           sector credit arising from the size o f the fiscal deficit, whilst maintaining its

                                              33

         annual 5 percent inflation objective. While the deficit reduction strategies are
         being pursued, government will continue to ensure that measures to reduce
         poverty are not comprised by keeping expenditures protected under the Poverty
         Action Fund(PAF).

11.      In the 1990s Uganda established a welfare monitoring system with regular
     Household Surveys. These show a dramatic and consistent downward trend inincome
     poverty. Nonetheless there has been a slight reversal in the poverty trend 2002/03.
     Government i s committed to address the reversal and keep on track in achieving its
     longer term target o f eradicating poverty. While between 1992/93 and 1999/00
     poverty steadily declined from 56% to 35%, it went up by 3% percentage points in
     2002/03. For most o f the 1990s, poverty fell fastest for the poorest sections of society
     as evidenced by the more rapid growth inreal household consumption.

         This trend has, however, been reversed in the North because o f prolonged
     insurgency. The increase inpoverty i s attributed to lower growth inGDP, particularly
     inagriculture, linkedwith adverse terms oftrade for commodities such as coffee and
     cotton and a temporary suspension o f fish exports to the European Union, high
     population growth and increasing inequality. Although this poverty increase i s
     expected to be a temporary set back, it i s recognised that in the medium term,
     Government must effectively address a number o f policy issues, including security,
     population growth, andinequality inwealth distribution.

         Government regards continued macro-economic stability as critical for a
     framework that promotes economic growth. We will therefore continue with existing
     policies aimed at achieving the following macro-economic targets:

          a       Real GDP growth rate o f 7 percent per annum;
          a       Annual average underlying inflation o f 5 percent or less;
          a       Foreign reserves o f five months' imports of goods and services or more;
          0       Strong private sector credit growth
          0       Sustainable levels o f external debt; and
          a       Competitive real exchange rate.

          To enable us to achieve these objectives, in addition to our pre-existing policies,
          we will place particular emphasis on our deficit reduction strategy over medium
          term.

   Revenue

14.       Having roughly doubled inthe early 1990s, Government revenue as a proportion
     o f GDP has stagnated at 11-12 percent since 1996/97. While, as mentioned above,
     the stagnation o f domestic revenue has not significantly constrained Government
     expenditure, since Government has been able to use donor funding to increase
      expenditure and maintain its poverty eradication programme. However this
     unfortunately has led to a significant increase in the fiscal deficit. By 2001/02, the
      fiscal deficit, excluding grant assistance, had risen to 12.8 percent o f GDP. This size


                                              34

    o f deficit cannot be sustained over the medium term without jeopardising private
    sector development, as a large deficit i s associated with highinterest rates and upward
    pressures on the exchange rate.

15.     Government has therefore decided to initiate a deficit reduction strategy, which,
    by necessity, needs to be accompanied by targeted measures to increase domestic
    revenue as a percentage o f GDP to enable Government expenditure to continue to
    grow at the rate seen over the past five years. In terms o f tax administration,
    Government has taken strong measures to ensure improved revenue collection. This
    fiscal year, tax revenue collection i s projected to be 99% o f target, indicating
    significant improvement tax administration. To increase revenue as a percentage o f
    GDP requires significant efficiency improvement at the Uganda Revenue Authority
    (URA), increased efforts to mobilise non-tax revenue of Government agencies and
    increased revenue-generating capacity o f local governments. To improve URA
    performance, Government has taken measures including the appointment o f a new
    Board o f Directors and that o f a Commissioner General is inprocess. This i s aimed
    at improving the efficiency and effectiveness o fURAoperations by:

        a       Ensuring the design and implementation o f a viable business plan and
                human resource development plan; and
        a       Ensuring the development and implementation o f a new and effective
                integrated computer system to facilitate administration of internal taxes in
                a single application and enabling the sharing o f informationwith customs.

16.     With regard to non-tax revenue, the outtum for 2002/03 was 17 percent below
    target at Shs23.7bn However, the projected outturn for 2003/04 indicates that the
    non-tax revenue target will not be met by 33% (representing a shortfall o f close to
    Shsl2 billion). The major constraint on non-tax revenue collections continues to be
    operational difficulties encountered in collecting general revenues from Line
    Ministries, due to:

        a       Failure by some ministries to budget adequately for Non Tax Revenue.In
                some cases it i s likely that collections are better than projections, but there
                i s a lack o f transparency inthe submissions;
        a       Inadequate incentive for the collecting institutions to increase their
                collections o fNon Tax Revenue.

17.     To address these constraints, Government has introduced the following measures
    to increase collections:


        0       Abolition o f Appropriation in Aid (AIA) so that all Non Tax Revenue
                collections are remitted to the Consolidated Fund bank account and no
                finds are used at source. I n addition, where AIA was shown as a single
                line budget item, budgetfor former AIA expenditure against specijk line
                items such asfuel;
        a       Publication o f the N o nTax Revenue budget estimates;



                                              35

         e         Ministries are required to budget for revenue collections and project
                   monthly collections. Failure to meet the resulting targets leads to
                   deductions from the subsequent cash release from the Treasury for the
                   defaulting ministry;
          e        Phased transfer o f Non Tax Revenue collections to the URA to minimise
                   leakage o f funds;
          e        Increased inspection and monitoring o f Ministries' revenue collection
                   mechanisms;
          e        Systematic review and update o f rates and charges, to bring them in line
                   with current costs andprices.
          e        Introduced new banking arrangements applying to payments, receipts and
                   banking, to minimiseleakage o f cash collections.

18.       Government's pilot transfer o f the collection of passport fees to URA in 2001/02
      proved highly successful, with an outtum o f 290 percent against target. Consequently,
      Government has accelerated its transfer programme; immigration fees, court fees,
      land transfer fees, public service vehicle registration, company registration, mining
      fees and royalties are all now being collected by URA.

   Strategic Exports

          Macro-economic policy i s being accompanied by a deepening o f current
      institutional reforms inthe public sector and inother key areas such as public utilities,
      transport infrastructure, the commercial justice system and the banking and financial
      system, which are aimed at removing key constraints to private sector growth. These
      reforms are set out inthe Government's Medium Term Competitiveness Strategy for
      the Private Sector - currently under implementation.

          Government i s also committed to removing specific bottlenecks that impede the
      ability o f the private sector to take advantage o f the African Growth Opportunities
      Act ("GOA) inthe USA, the "Everything But Arms" initiative inthe European Union
      and other trade opportunities. To this end Government i s implementing a strategic
      exports programme to stimulate value addition investments in selected areas that are
      likely to have multiplier effects on the economy, and to remove bottlenecks that
      impede the private sector's ability to take advantage o f emerging trade opportunities.

          Commodities that Government identified at the start o f the programme as
      strategic exports, based on Uganda's production potential and world market
      prospects, included coffee, tea, livestock, fish, cotton, horticulture and Irishpotatoes.
      In addition, in the Service sector, Information and Communications Technology
      (ET) has been identified as another potential export area. Under ICT, key activities
      include supporting the Incubation Centre for the young enterprises involved in data
      processing and tele-marketing.

          The prospects for achieving rapid economic growth and structural transformation
      and for value addition for commodities are high. These may not involve only
      processing but could take the form o f appellations, certification o f selected brand


                                              36

      names and packaging. Government has been working closely with local producers
      and marketing groups, the donor community and other development partners to refine
      its strategic export strategy and to target its interventions effectively. However, i s
      imperative that all key stakeholders (public sector, private sector and development
      partners) are fully involved in the programme, and that it i s implemented in
      conjunction with the Plan for the Modemisation o f Agriculture and the MediumTerm
      Competitiveness Strategy for the Private Sector.

   AllocationsandActualExpenditure

23.       From a situation ten years ago where the majority o f public expenditure was
      determined by donor priorities, considerable progress has been made in ensuringthat
      most public expenditure, whether Government or donor-financed, now reflects the
      priorities set out in the PEAP. The development o f the MTEF and sector investment
      programmes in key sectors such as education and health have strengthened the
      alignment o f donor funding with PEAP priorities. Government will continue to place
      priority on adequate funding of PEAP priorities in the MTEF. To this end,
      Government will continue through its consultative Public Expenditure Review
      process to consult with its development partners, including IDA, on the broad
      composition o f the MTEF as it i s updated each year. Inorder to monitor that budget
      execution i s consistent with the agreed budget; Government will continue to share
      relevant information at periodic intervals as agreed with its development partners.
      The Government has largely executed the fiscal year 2003/04 budget as agreed with
      donors. In the annual Public Expenditure Review in May 2004, Government agreed
      with the donors, including IDA, on the Medium Term Expenditure Framework for
      2004/05-2006/07.

24.       The macro-economic achievements outlined above have beenunderpinned by the
      MTEF, which has ensured that Government expenditure does not exceed available
      resources and i s consistent with Government's inflation target. I n recent years, the
      MTEF has been supported by the Poverty Action Fund (PAF), which was created in
      1998 mainly out of the expenditure savings arising from the highly indebted poor
      country (HIPC) debt relief and enhanced HIPC initiatives and additional donor
      funding. As a result there has been a major shift o f resources into PAF, which has
      increased, from 18 percent of the Government budget in 1997198 to 37.1 percent o f
      the Government budget in 2003/04. These reforms have encouraged donors to shift
      their financing away from projects towards programmatic support because they
      broadly share the policy priorities articulated by Government and expressed in the
      MTEF and are confident that the endorsed sector priorities and programmes will be
      funded. Government has encouraged this shift because it strengthens the budget
      system, facilitates the planning o f prioritised expenditure on a coherent sectoral basis,
      increases Government's       flexibility in resource allocation and simplifies aid
      management.

25.       To improve management o f the MTEF, Government intends over time to integrate
      donor project-financing within the MTEF process. Government has initiated the
      process o f integrating donor project aid into the expenditure ceilings for 2004/05-
      2006/07 MTEF. However, as the process o f integrating project aid in the MTEF is

                                              37

      operationalised, there are challenges that remain, and a study i s being undertaken to
      resolve some o f these challenges. As part o f the MTEF process, Sector Working
      Groups were given envelopes for externally financed projects and asked to identify
      development priorities over the MTEF period within these ceilings. It i s important to
      recognise the significance o f the active involvement o f all stakeholders in this
      initiative. As part o fthe solution to address this issue, Government i s seeking to move
      the Stockholm Partnership process forward. The role o f the donor community in
      providing the necessary level o f detail o f expected disbursements to enable the
      allocation o f donor projects' funding into the MTEF process was initiated during a
      Joint Partnership Meeting held inEntebbeduring September 2001.

26.        Inthe preparationofthe MTEF, staffing andwage-level issues havebeenhandled
      outside the sector-specific expenditure programmes. This has had the effect o f
      significantly restricting the range o f budgetary choices available to these sectors.
      Sector working groups in for health and education (which have the longest
      experience) embarked on the explicit inclusion o f staffing and wage issues in their
      Budget Framework Papers for the period 2004105-2006/07.                  Following their
      successful piloting, a plan for the integration has been developed and once adopted
      full integration will take effect inthe FY 05/06 Budgetprocess and over the Medium
      term.

27.        Government will also endeavour to ensure that execution o f the budget i s
      consistent with the MTEF objectives. As part o f this process the Annual Budget
      Performance Report for 2002/03,which analyses discrepancies betweenbudgeted and
      actual revenues and expenditure, was published and disseminated by October 2003.
      The Budget performance Report for the half year from July to December 2003 has
      been published.        Government is committed to improving the quality, output
      orientation and timeliness o f these publications.

   Intergovernmental Transfers

28.        Following the Cabinet's approval of the Fiscal Decentralisation Strategy (FDS) in
      June 2001, Government started the implementation o f the strategy, on a pilot basis, in
      15 local govemments (12 districts and 3 municipalities). Notable achievements
      include:


           0      The pilot local governments prepared the budget for FY 2003/04 based on
                  the FDS modality;


           0      Draft Operational manuals on Financial Management, Reporting and
                  Accountability in line with the principles under FDS were produced; and
                  the pilot local governments were oriented         on the application o f the
                  manuals;


           0      Effective from October 2003, the pilot local governments started the
                  process o f reducing the number o f bank accounts consistent with the
                  requirements under FDS. To date, on average, the bank accounts have


                                               38

                beenreduced by about 68%. The pilot local governments have not attained
                full reduction in the number of bank accounts because of the existing
                Agreements and Memorandum of Understandingwith the donor partners
                which had a requirementto operationalise the programmes using separate
                bank accounts.


         0      The Planning and Budget Manuals under the FDS modality were revised
                bythe Joint Local Government Budget Committee and Local Government
                Releases and Operations Committee based on the experience in the pilot
                local governments. The revised manuals guided the preparation for the
                Local Government Budget Framework Papers for FY 2004/05 and the
                mediumterm.


         0      All the local governments preparedthe Budget Framework Papers for FY
                2004/05 based on the FDS modality.

   PEAPMonitoringandEvaluation

29.      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) processes require strengthening in order for
     Government and other stakeholders to determine more easily whether the
     effectiveness o f public service delivery i s improving and the pace o f poverty
     reduction is increasing. M&E remains at present overly centred on compliance with
     government rules and regulations and with focus on inputs and processes rather than
     on the end results of policy, program and project efforts. Recurrent and development
     expenditures are reviewed separately rather than for their combined contribution
     towards overall goals. The collecting, organising and use o f data for M&E are
     compartmentalised and fragmented between multiple government and donor planning
     and progress reporting arrangements. Officials are therefore burdened with reports
     buttheyhave little systematic information about the performance and effectiveness o f
     actual public service delivery.

30.      A national Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy has been prepared. In
     view o f this, the National Integrated Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy (NIMES)
     that integrates the existingrange o f government M&E systems, and the identification
     o fthe minimumset o f indicators to support PEAP implementation is being finalised.

   PEAPCoordinationandResults-Orientation

31.      Further Cabinet approved an institutional framework to streamline the
     coordination o f implementation o f Government policies and programmes.         This
     coordination framework is now operational and composed o f a four tier coordination
     mechanism, namely;


         0       Cabinet Sub Committee on Policy Coordination (CCPC) comprising
                Ministers o f implementing Ministries under the chairmanship o f the Prime
                Minister ;



                                            39

            ImplementationCoordination SteeringCommittee (ICSC) composed o f all
            the Permanent Secretaries under the chairmanship o f the Head o f Public
            Service and Secretary to Cabinet;

            Technical Implementation Coordination Committee (TICC) is a multi-
            sectoral technical committee to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary,
            Office of the PrimeMinister;

      e     Sector Working Groups, these bring together all sectoral stakeholders to
            discuss sectoral efforts in implementation o f sector activities. This
            mechanism facilitates intra-sectoral coordination for the realization o f
            sector targets and goals.

32.   To ensure that managers focus on real progress towards PEAPPRSP objectives,
    Government will undertake the following:

      e     Continued efforts to establish clear output and outcome targets at the
            sectoral and district levels. Such targets will cascade through from the
            National Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy to sector and district
            policies, budget frameworks and work plans. Projects like the Uganda
            Participatory Poverty Assessment Programme (UPPAP) represent a way
            o f bringing a bottom-up perspective to planning and spending decisions.
            So far, the Roads, Education, Health, Water and Sanitation, and Justice
            Law and Order sectors have introduced output targets and monitoring o f
            results in their Budget Framework Papers (BFP). Other sectors, such as
            Economic Services and Public Administration are working towards the
            identification o f suitable outputs and indicators to chart their progress. In
            addition, the Defence Review i s expected to enable stakeholders to be
            more objective in assessing the value for money inherent in defence
            expenditure and inidentifyinga reasonable defence spendingceiling;

            Consolidate our efforts in linking outcomes, outputs and the budget
            through the alignment o f the Outcome-Oriented Budget (OOB) process
            being implemented by the Ministry o f Finance, Planning and Economic
            Development (MoFPED) with Results Oriented Management (ROM)
            being implementedby the Ministry of Public Service (MoPS). This would
            also enhance consistency o f targets and accountability. ROM, launched in
             1997, is aiming to enhance performance and accountability.                All
            Ministries, departments and local governments are required to prepare
            annual performance plans that reflect their performance output targets and
            with verifiable indicators as a basis for appraisal of performance by the
            organisation and staff. ROM has potentially strong synergies with the
            annual budget process, and MoFPED, in consultation with MoPS,
            embarked on finalizing the Output orientation within the Budget Module
            o f the Integrated Financial Management System. This should enable the
            two ministries to prepare an action to align the two initiatives.         The
            initiatives will complement each other in the drive to facilitate the


                                         40

                attainment of efficiency and accountability in the use o f budgeted
                resources, These activities are expected to be coordinated through the
                Public Expenditure Management Committee (PEMCOM) that monitors
                budget, financial, management and accountability reforms.

   Gender andEquity

33.      The limitations o f integrating gender issues inthe earlier PEAP formulations and
     implementations not withstanding, Government has now sharpened gender focus in
     the new PEAP formulation through improved analytical andpolicy oriented work o f
     the gender dimensions o f poverty and growth linkages. This has provided a solid
     foundation for integrating gender issues into the PEAP revision. Government i s
     equally determined to systematically address gender issues in the PRSC process. In
     view of this Government has undertaken and/or will do the following:


         e      Initiated the revision o fthe national gender policy;
         e      Draft national policies for the Disabled, Orphans and Elderly will soon be
                presentedto Cabinet.
         e      Initiated and developed gender and equity budgeting guidelines for
                FY2005/06 budget cycle;
         e      Further analysis o f gender andgrowth linkages will beundertaken;.
         e      The domestic relations bill will be tabled in Parliament and the Sexual
                Offences billwill be presented to Cabinet; and
         e      The Ministry o f Water Lands and Environment is to initiate the
                development o f the evaluation tool for the LSSP to provide baseline
                assessment o f women's land rights, including the level o f awareness.

   PILLAR2: Good Governance and Security

   ImproveManagementSystems andPracticesinthe PublicSector

34.      A number o f cross-cutting issues have been targeted by Government in order to
     improve service delivery by the public service and encourage donors to adopt
     program funding as opposed to project funding. These are:

         e      Reforming public service management, including pay andpensions;
         e      Reforming the public procurement system;
                Strengthening financial management inthe public service;
                Increasing transparency andcivil society participation;
         e      Implementing the Government Strategy and Plan of Action to Fight
                Corruption and BuildEthics and Integrity inPublic Offices.

35.      Looking at each o f the above issues, Iam setting out below the progress made so
     far and our intended actions inthe next few years.




                                             41

   Public Service Management

36.       Government has pursued and sustained a public service reform programme that
     was launched inthe early 1990s. The rationalization efforts led to the streamlining o f
     functions and services in Ministries and departments, the local governments and
     divestiture o f some services to the private sector inorder to improve service delivery.
     The 1995 Constitution and the Decentralization Policy prompted further
     rationalization o f Government structures. This resultedinthe reduction o f Ministries
     from 38 in 1991 to 17 in 1998. Through a combination o f voluntary and compulsory
     retirement, and recruitment freeze, the size o f the Public Service work force was
     reduced from over 320,000 in 1990 to 160,000 in 1997. This effort was supported by
     control measures, including the computerization o f the payroll, monitoring the staff
     numbers andpayroll cleaning.

37.       There i s a steady increase in staff numbers to meet the demands o f the expansion
     in services crucial to our poverty reduction agenda. Consequently, the number of
     Government employees has risen relatively fast from 160,000 in 1997 to 219,283 as
     at    December 2003. In order to assess the implications o f this growth, the MoPS
     initiated a study on the cost effectiveness and efficiency o f human resource
     deployment in the social sectors and the MoFPED conducted an assessment o f the
     implications o f expansion o f Public Administration. MoPS and MoFPED in
     collaboration with social sectors (Education, Health, Water and Sanitation,
     Agriculture and Social Development) have prepared draft policy paper on issues,
     measures and modalities for controlling the size o f public administration and ensuring
     cost efficiency and effectiveness in human resource deployment in social sector.
     The draft policy has been submitted as evidence for one o f the Prior actions under
     PRSC4.

38.       An ambitious programme o f decentralization o f delivery o f primary public
     services to local governmentshas been a central thrust o f the Public Service Reform.
     The programme has been supported by the transfer o f fiscal resources to local
     governments amounting to 35%              o f total Government funded expenditure,
     Meanwhile,with considerable support from the IDA and other development partners,
     major initiatives to improve effectiveness and sustainability o f the decentralization
     programme, by strengthening the resource base o f the local governments, have been
     launched. The local government structures have beenreviewed to provide a basis for
     rationalizing the structure and recruitment o f affordable and appropriate human
     resources to deliver services.

39.       Improvement o f pay for Public Service managers and professionals has been a
     key issue on the Government agenda. In this regard, a Pay Reform strategy was
     adopted by Government in March 2002 on the basis o f which a 10-year time frame
     has been agreed as the way forward in implementing a transparent and equitable Pay
     Structure for the Public Service. The strategy i s geared towards recruitment and
     retention o f competent and well-motivated personnel. A single spine salary structure
     was implemented in FY 2003/4 in order to remove distortions in pay levels.


                                              42

    Enhancement o f salaries for the middle to senior level managers, with emphasis on
    managerial, scientific and professional cadres i s the primary focus o fthe strategy.

40.      MOPSand MoFPED have agreed on target salary adjustments inline with the Pay
    Reform Strategy, and the associated wage bill has been reflected in MTEF for
    2004/05-2006/07. An annual provision o f UShs 15 billion for the Pay Reform has
    been available in the FY2004/05 budget. In view o f the recent developments
    government is also in the process o f coming up with a comprehensive public pay
    policy that will ensure that the pay reform program remains on track. Inorder to keep
    the pay reform on track Government will continue to enhance the resources provided
    for Pay Reform in the medium term. The implementation o f Result Oriented
    Management (ROM) and the provision o f the necessary tools and facilities to Public
    Officers will support the strategy, leading to enhanced productivity and improved
    service delivery.

41.      Government has continued to sustain the improvements in payroll management
    that have beenintroduced over the past year. Inparticular, following decentralization
    o f the Teachers' Payroll manual processes, newly recruited teachers are accessing the
    payroll within one month fiom the date o f assumption o f duty. An Inter Ministerial
    Taskforce continues with its efforts to ensure sustained improvements in Payroll
    Management. Inthe medium term, emphasis will be placed on strengthening intemal
    payroll controls and developing an Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information
    Systems (IPPS) compatible with the IntegratedFinancial Management System.

42.      Government recognizes inadequate capacity as a major constraint to effective and
    sustained implementation o f the programmes under Public service reform that would
    help enhance the performance o f the Public service for improved service delivery.
    Therefore capacity building continues to receive priority attention.        To this end,
    among other measures, Government has approached the World Bank and other
    development partners to support an initiative for comprehensive and innovative
    demand driven measures to enhance capacity and performance across the Public
    Sector.

43.      Government i s in the process o f revamping the Public Service Reform (PSR)
    programme. In this context, Government has produced a broad Strategy (PSRS)
    2002-2007 for the next phase of reforms. This will ensure the provision o f quality
    services that meet the needs o f the people and to promote private sector development
    for socio-economic transformation. The PSRS aims at creating an effective linkage
    with PEAP andother sector reforms by:

         a      Strengthening the capacity o f Central Ministries to effectively formulate
                and manage policy, to monitor quality and to provide technical support for
               the services deliveredbyLocal Governments;
         0     Devising and agreeing appropriate structures and systems to facilitate
                efficient and effective service delivery;




                                            43

         0       Assisting managers in central Ministries and Local Governments to
                 specify their outputs and Performance indicators and subsequently to
                 monitor implementation;
                 Enabling a more rational, efficient and output-oriented allocation and
                 expenditure o f resources through linkage o f performance to the budget
                 process and financial management reforms;
         e       Producing efficiencies and cost savings on a continuous basis, which will,
                 in tum contribute to pay enhancements, capacity building and cost
                 effective service delivery.

         However considering the severe budgetary constraints, government i s presently
         discussing the areas that should receive priority considering their importance in
         the implementation o fthe revisedPEAP.

   PublicProcurement

44.      The Public Procurement and Disposal o fPublic Assets Act 2003 has beeninforce
     since 21St February 2003. 40 staff have been recruited as per the approved
     organization structure. Efforts are underway to conduct appropriate induction and
     training courses for the new staff in their relevant fields. Public Procurement and
     Disposal o f Public Assets Regulations, 2003 were gazetted under Statutory
     Instrument no 70 o f 2003 and came into force on 5th September 2003.

45.      The Authority has drafted standard bidding documents for works, services,
     supplies and disposal for complex, medium and small assignments, along best
     practices especially the World Bank. The draft standard bidding documentation i s
     currently undergoing consultations with various stakeholders. Once approved by all
     stakeholders, they will be issuedinthe next financial year. Inaccordance with section
     97 o f the Public Procurement and Disposal o f Public Assets Act, 2003, the Authority
     developed the first seven guidelines which were approved by the Board. The
     guidelines cover the areas o f thresholds, reference numbers for procurement and
     disposal transactions, bid and performance securities, codes o f ethical conduct, record
     keeping, administrative review fees and bid acceptance. The guidelines shall be used
     to guide procuring and disposing entities on issues conceming implementingo f the
     law, regulations and standard bidding documents and shall be issued in the next
     financial year.

46.      Procurement and disposal units were created and are operational in all ministries,
     departments and commissions under jurisdiction o f the Ministry o f Public Service.
     Public Service Commission recruited and appointed all principal procurement
     officers, senior procurement officers, procurement who have assumed duties. Second
     batch o f 25 procurement officers will berecruited soon.

47.      An interim compliance assessment was conducted to verify the existence o f
     contracts committees and procurement and disposal units in central govemment
     procuring and disposing entities and also to ascertain the level o f compliance with the
     law and identify bottlenecks in the application and implementation o f the law.     The


                                            44

      second phase will include Ministries o f Health, Agriculture, Animal Industry and
      Fisheries. Procurement audits were undertaken in two ministries, Ministry o f
      Education and Sports and Ministryo f Water, Lands and Environment as a start to the
      monitoring o fprocurement performance o f Procuring and Disposal Entities.

48.       Inorder to achieve the Authority's mandate of buildingprocurement capacity in
      Uganda and fulfil the PRSC requirement, a national procurement and disposal
      capacity building strategy was drafted to cover the central government, local
      governments and statutory bodies. In accordance with Section 40 o f the Public
      Procurement and Disposal o f Public Assets Act, 2003 three firms have been
      prequalified to provide third party procurement services to procuring and disposing
      entities andfour firms to provide regulatory support to the PPDA.

49.       Under the mandate to create transparency inpublic procurement, the Authority on
      a quarterly basis, publishes contracts awarded in excess o f US$200,000 or its
      equivalent in Uganda shillings. Of the approximately 100 procuring and disposing
      entities at the central government level, only 57 complied with the PPDA request.
      The other procuring and disposing entities were non-compliant. Of the 57 that
      complied, 21 had awarded a total o f 136 contracts above US$200,000 or its
      equivalent in Uganda shillings while 36 responded with a NIL return report. At the
      endofJune 2003, a report was compiled andpublishedinthe media.

50.       Inan effort to harmonize the local government procurement system, the Authority
      with the assistance o f USAID, a procurement capacity assessment study was
      undertaken in 4 districts and 2 urban authorities/municipalities. The study, finalized
      inJune 2003 among other things recommended the development of a detailed legal
      framework, strengthening the Accounting Officer's control over the procurement
      activities, establishing a complaints review mechanism and conducting training. The
      recommendations are being used in the harmonization process o f the local
      government procurement systems with those o f the central government.         In May
      2004, a draft amendment to the Local Government Act, 1997 to harmonize the
      appointment and removal o f Local Government Tender Board members with the
      Public Procurement and Disposal o f Public Assets Act, 2003 and a draft o f the Local
      Governments Procurement and Disposal regulations, were produced and submitted to
      Cabinet.

   FinancialManagement

          The Government has registered significant improvements in Public Sector
      accounting and reporting in recent years. The annual Public Accounts of central
      government have been reviewed to comply with the new PFAA 2003 and
      Internationally Accepted Standards o f public sector financial reporting. The central
      government annual accounts are now regularly being produced within the statutory
      period. Most o f the local governments are now producing annual accounts which are
      audited within the stipulated time.

          Efforts are underway to enhance timely and better reporting include transforming
      the existing accounting and reporting systems for both the central and local

                                             45

    governments as well as enhancing awareness and improved quality o f accounting
    cadre throughout government.

53.     The initiatives for Public Expenditure Management reforms have continued to be
    spearheaded through the Second Economic and Financial Management project
    (EFMPII), the Local Government Development Project, the Financial Accountability
    and Decentralization support project. It should be noted that Government i s seeking
    to rapidly enhance the financial accountability framework inpursuit o f the following
    objectives:

        e      Enable proper decision-making through provision o f timely and accurate
               reports.
        e      Mitigate fiduciary risk in public expenditure management for both
               taxpayers and donors.
        e      Achieve economy, efficiency and effectiveness inthe use ofpublic funds
        e      Enhance transparency and accountability.
        e      Establish an appropriate enabling environment for private sector
               development and regulation.

54.     Government i s currently undertakingthe following measures to ensure that the
    above objectives are attained:

        e       Started the pilot implementation o f the Integrated Financial Management
                system in 6 Ministries and 4 local governments. The success o f these
                should be able to provide an assurance to producing timely and accurate
               reports. The strategy for the further rollout i s currently beingdeveloped.

        e      Improved the quality and timeliness of Government financial reporting by
               producing semi-annual consolidated reports on budget execution and
                annual consolidated financial statements. The formats o f these reports
                have been reviewed to provide better information and to comply with both
                the PFAA 2003 and internationally accepted standards on public sector
                reporting. . The backlogs in both the Accountant General's Office and
                Auditor General's Office have been cleared and now most reconciliations
                and audits are up to date especially for central government

        e       Strengthened the legal and regulatory framework by implementing the
                provisions o f the PFAA 2003 and revising the underlying Financial
                Regulations and Treasury Accounting Instructions. An initiative has been
                launched to harmonize the Local Government Regulations on Financial &
                Accounting, and Internal Audit with that o f the PFAA.

        e       A draft on the independence o f the Auditor General's office has been
                prepared a submitted for review by the relevant committee o f Parliament.
                The re-organization o f the Accountant General's Office i s underway.This
                will enhance efficiency inthe productionof financial reports.



                                           46

                 Continued induction and professional training for both the central and
                 local Governments. The number o f professional accountants employed in
                 government i s now over 60. The training incomputerised environment o f
                 both the Internal Auditors and External Auditors under the Auditor
                 General's Office is being undertaken. The Internal Auditors have been
                 undergoing training both inprofessional areas and inspecialist audit areas.
                 Under the professional training many o f them are undertaking
                 ACCA/CPA training, and 12 out o f 45 are now professionally qualified.
                 With regard to specialist audit training, they have undertaken basic audit
                 skills, basic IT skills, introduction to IDEA. These activities have been
                 complemented with general reforms in internal audit for conducting audit
                 inaccordance with auditing standards andguidelines.


          e      Enhanced support to the ParliamentaryAccounts Committee to enable it to
                 hasten the process o f presentation o f PAC reports to the plenary. This
                 should in turn expedite the process o f completing the Treasury
                 Memorandum for the Years 1998/99, 1999/2000,2000/01 and2001/02.

          e      Inorder to comply with the provisions ofthe PFAA, a strategy paper for
                 decentralization o f internal audit functions in central ministries has been
                 drafted, and guidelines for setting up audit committees has been drafted.
                 These are to be finalized and implemented in the second half o f FY
                 2004/05 and over the medium term. These are to be complemented by the
                 Internal Audit Charter, Charter for Audit Committees and Ethical
                 Guidelines amongst others which are due for formal adoption and
                 implementation.

   TransparencyandAnti-Corruption,ParticipationandLegal andJudicialReform

   TransparencyandAnti-Corruption

55.       Government plans to improve the right o f access to public information, as one o f
      the measures to strengthenaccountability. First, we planto revise the Official Secrets
      Acts, and replace it with a modern Access to Government Information Law. The
     principles for the access to government information bill are beingprepared to provide
      for public access to a wide range o f Government information. In addition a working
      committee has been set up to work on the principles for a Whistleblower Act and
      some preliminary work i s on going inrespect o f the QuiTam act.

56.       We have embarked on issuing a number of publications to clarify Government
      processes and the rights and responsibilities o f stakeholders in those processes. For
      example, "The Citizens Guide to the Budget Process" has beenissuedby my Ministry
      inEnglishandalso inthe most commonly usedUgandanlanguages. MyMinistryhas
      also prepared and approved a communication strategy for full implementation.

57.       Government has increasingly continued to use public information to empower
      citizens to demand greater accountability from local governments. My Ministry,


                                              47

    together with the Ministry o f Local Government regularly disseminates information
    through the media on both the PEAP, monthlyreleases under fiscal transfers and also
    provides details o f mandatory financial releases to primary schools. Our plan i s to
    extend this practice to health, water and sanitation and agriculture services so that
    public notices o f financial transfers for these services will be posted at facilities,
    districts and sub-counties, respectively.

58.     Government has singled out the following priorities to signal progress in its fight
    against corruption:


        0       The Inspectorate o f Government (IG) Bill was passed by Parliament and
                then assented to by H.E the President in March 2002. The IG Act 2001
                puts into effect the improved powers and procedures required by the
                Inspectorate o f Government to fight corruption more effectively as
                provided for inthe 1995 constitution;
        0       The Inspector General of Government's report i s now regularly discussed
                by the Sessional Committee on Legal and ParliamentaryAffairs;
        0       The new Leadership Code was assented to by H.E the President in July
                2002. The Leadership Code caters for a wide group o f key leaders and
                closes the loopholes in the previous Code. It also provides avenues for
                citizens to access leaders' asset declarations and for sanctions for non-
                compliance, including disqualification from office. However, following
                the recent Constitutional Court ruling on the constitutionality o f some
                aspects o f the leadership code, we had to initiate a revision o f the Code.
                The process involves Constitutional amendments that are necessary to
                ensure achievements o f the objectives ofthe Leadership Code.

59.     A plan has also been developed to address the short term challenges prior to the
    probable revisions of the code. The Inspector General of Government has established
    a Directorate to manage the Leadership Code and started taking administrative action
    for non-compliance. Letters have been issued to the appointing authorities requiring
    disciplinary action to be taken against leaders who have failed to declare their assets,
    and appropriate action has been taken in accordance with the law. Progress on the
    verification has commenced and this forms the most complex aspect o f the
    implementation o f the Leadership Act 2002.

60.     The process for drafting the Whistleblower Protection Legislation has already
    started. Consultations are going on, but the process may take longer than expected
    because Government has decided to conduct broader consultations than initially
    planned to ensure broad support for the proposed bill. Experience from other
    countries demonstrates that this i s an important step in the process o f developing an
    appropriate legislation. Government plans to table the principles for the law before
    Cabinet during2004.




                                            48

   Anti CorruptionStrategy

61.      Government recognises the independence o f other broad areas for action: (i)
     strengthening the capacity o f law enforcement for better detection, investigation,
     prosecution and judgment o f corruption cases; (ii)strengthening the procurement
     systems; (iii)  strengthening financial accountability; (iv) implementing public sector
     pay reform; (v) ensuring effective co-ordination of agencies on corruption issues; (vi)
     strengtheningthe legal framework related to corruption; and (vii) strengthening the
     system o f enforcement o f codes of conduct. Implementing this action plan has
     necessitated the participation o f several agencies under the co-ordination o f the
     Directorate for Ethics andIntegrity (DEI), inthe Office o f the President.

62.      In 1996, H.E the President made eradicating corruption a national priority and
     launched the "Government Strategy and Plan o f Action to Fight Corruption and
     RebuildEthics and Integrity in Public Office - Fiscal Years 2000/01-2002/03". The
     plan aims at building capacity for co-ordination, planning and monitoring anti-
     corruption efforts and building the ethics and integrity o f the people o f Uganda. A
     new Anti- Corruption Strategy for the medium term, i.e. FY2004/05-FY2006/07 was
     finalized and launched in May 2004. The new strategy now focuses on professional
     standards, performance indicators and assessment o f practices in Local governments
     and strengthening the enforcement mechanism.

63.      In this connection, Government is reviewing all anti-corruption laws to
     consolidate them into a single comprehensive legislation and has already assembled
     the relevant recommendations. The principles have been finalized and are due for
     tabling before Cabinet and once approved the proposed Bill will be gazetted by end
     o f 2004.

64.      To ensure that monitoring of corruption becomes part o f M&E, DEIhas, with the
     support o f donors, been developing quantitative monitoring indicators to assess
     progress in the fight against corruption. In this context, the results o f the second
     Integrity Survey were released at a national stakeholder's workshop as scheduled, in
     April 2003. Discussion of the results showed considerable improvement inthe public
     perception o f corruption in Uganda. The modalities for wider dissemination o f the
     results o f the survey are being finalised. Regional integrityworkshops are now being
     conducted as a means o f disseminating the results o fthe surveyat the grass root level.

   CivilSociety Participation

65.      Government acknowledges the contribution to development and growth made by
     civil society, and recognises that full involvement o f this sector inthe improvement o f
     service delivery and good governance is both necessary and challenging. One area
     that has been explored to enhance service delivery i s to build stronger partnerships
     between government at all levels and non-governmental organisations (NGOs),
     including faith-based organisations. To this end Government has established a
     computerised database o f NGOs to improve information available on NGOs as well
     as accountability. Inaddition, Government and the NGO community have undertaken

                                              49

     an NGO sector survey that has provided the much needed information on the sector
     and at the same time guidedthe preparationo f the NGO policy. The overall objective
     o f the NGO survey was to identify and better understand NGO roles, the nature and
     quality of services offered, potential areas for capacity building, opportunities,
     constraints and mechanisms for improved collaboration, possible criteria for engaging
     NGOs in both policy debate and service delivery, and indicators for assessing the
     quality o f services provided.

66.       The first draft report of the NGO sector survey has been reviewed and the second
     draft was submitted at the end o f April 2003. The findings indicated that the
     complexity o f the NGO sector in Uganda, and raised critical points relating to
     registration, functions, location, monitoring and oversight, and coordination o f NGOs
     and their activities. The findings are expected to facilitate the revision o f the draft
     NGO bill. The NGOs statute is expected to among others clarify on procedures, roles
     and responsibilities among various government agencies regarding NGO registration,
     monitoring and oversight. The statute i s also expected to provide for a favourable
     operating environment for NGOs.

67.       Government recognizes the need to improve district and sector plans to
     adequately reflect community perspectives and priorities. The numerous agencies
     apply participatory methods and approaches in an uncoordinated manner. Under the
     leadership o f the Ministry of Local Government, a Harmonized Participatory
     Planning Guide for lower councils (HPPG) has been prepared in consultation with
     districts and civil society groups. The Ministry of Local Government i s assisting
     local authorities in the application o f the Guide to the planning and budgeting
     processes, and in monitoring and evaluation o f its use. HPPG has been piloted in a
     number of local governments and the lessons learnt have been incorporated. This
     planning framework i s expected to lead to more effective participatory community
     development as services respond to user preferences. Government will continue to
     adopt and review the experience in its implementation during the PRSC program
     period.

   Legal and Judicial Reform

68.       In terms of access to Justice, the Justice, Law and Order (JLOS) reform
     programme has continued with the `rolled- out' o f the Case Backlog Project to
     magisterial areas and the process o f de-concentration of services through construction
     and posting o f staff in up-country stations. The following recruitments have been
     undertaken: 600 Prisons officers/warders, 800 Police constables and 15 cadets, 15
     State Attorneys, 26 Grade 1 Magistrates, 20 Probation Officers, and 3 technical
     officers. The Constructionprogramme includes 8 low cost housingblocks, in addition
     to completion o f the renovation o f Nsambya barracks for police; Grade 1 Court
     facilities in Hoima and Nabweru and Bugiri; renovation o f Mbarara remandprison,
     construction at Luzira Prison training school which i s completed, construction o f four
     prison wards, and renovation of prisons at Moroto and Namalu Construction o f
     ResidentState Attorney's offices inMbale and Arua andSoroti, Mukono and Kabale.



                                             50

69.        Improved Case management and the three C's o f Coordination, Communication
      and Cooperation have had a positive impact on the sector's efficiency and
      effectiveness. Some o f the outputs include: National rollout of the Case backlog
      Project and the Chain linked initiative, cross institutional training by the DPP,
      improved enforcement o f commercial judgments, reduction in Commercial case
      adjournments to 1.87 per case and reduction inthe time o f completion o f Commercial
      cases to 3.4 months from an average o f 6.57 months.

70.        Quality of Justice activities in the JLOS focuses on incorporation o f rights based
      standards in the process o f administration o f justice, as well as to addressing the
      substantive legal barriers occasioned by current laws. The main areas o f intervention
      include: establishment o f 4 pilot juvenile justice desks in police stations; training o f
      30 family and child protection officers in the (UPF) revisions and reform o f laws
      including completion o f 15 new or revised Commercial Bills awaiting passage by
      Parliament;    guidelines for by-laws for Local governments completed and
      disseminated; printing o f the `Living Law Journal' by the ULRC, and publication o f
      `RevisedLaws o fUganda' to December 2000.

71.        It is important to note that the Sector registered significant gains in monitoring
      and evaluation o f the Sector programme as recognised during the recently completed
      two Joint Reviews (May 2003 and December 2003) at which a satisfactory rating was
      awarded.

   PILLAR 3: Actions which directly increase the ability of the poor to
   raise their incomes

72.        Government's efforts to directly increase the ability o f the poor to raise their
      incomes is premised on the fact that the majority of Uganda's population live inrural
      areas, are self-employed in farm and non-farm activities and are constrained by
      limited skills and knowledge, productive assets and market opportunities. Eighty five
      percent of the population live inrural areas which, in 2000, accounted for 96 percent
      o f the poor and although poverty has declined significantly over the 1990s' the 2003
      Poverty Status report reveals an upsurge inpoverty. Government actions to increase
      the ability o f the poor to raise their incomes, articulated in the Poverty Eradication
      Action Plan (PEAP), are focused on several intervention areas including: (a)
      increasing access to productive assets; (b) increasing the retumsto income generating
      assets o f the poor through improving the delivery o f public services; (c) improving
      access to markets; (d) enhancing sustainable management and use o f the natural
      resource base; and (e) expandingfarm and non-farm employment opportunities.

73*        The principles set out in the PEAP have guided the formulation o f sector plans
      including, inter alia the Plan for Modemisation o f Agriculture (PMA) which has been
      designed to address directly PEAP's Pillar 3 issues and concerns. The core focus o f
      the P M A i s the transformation o f subsistence agriculture to commercial agriculture.
      The plan proposes a set o f rural development actions that will effect development o f
      both farm and off-farm enterprises inrural areas. Seven priority intervention areas are
      highlightedin the PMA, namely: (a) agricultural research; (b) agricultural advisory


                                               51

     services; (c) agro-processing and marketing; (d) rural financial services; (e) physical
     infrastructure; (f) agricultural education; and (g) sustainable natural resources use and
     management. Under the PMA, the roles and functions o fthe private and public sector
     are clearly delineated. Government interventions will focus primarily on promoting
     an enabling environment for private sector ledagricultural and rural growth.

74.      The PMA Steering Committee reviewed the 2004/05 Sector Budget Framework
     papers (SBFPs) with the objective o f prioritising P M A undertakings as agreed by all
     stakeholders during in the P M A Joint Review o f August 2003. The SBFPs for the
     following ministries were reviewed: Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries,
     Local Government, Energy and Mineral Development, Tourism, Trade and Industry,
     Health, Finance, Planning and Economic Development, Gender, Labour and Social
     Development, Works, Housing and Communications, and Water, Lands and
     Environment. The main purpose o f the analysis was to (a) establish the extent to
     which PMA undertakings for 2004/05 for each priority area had been included in the
     SBFPs o f the above ministries and (b) determine the amounts and proportions o f
     development budget resources allocated to these priority areas. The key limitations in
     this analysis were (a) lack o f a uniform format for presentation o f SBFPs that would
     facilitate quick access to required information; (b) it was also difficult to ascertain
     whether PMA undertakings had been provided for because the budgets were highly
     aggregated. Given the limitations, the general finding of the analysis was that there
     was inadequate response to deal with P M A undertakings in all the SBFPs that had
     beenreviewed. The Government is committed to expedite the mainstream the PMA
     undertakings inthe overall sectoral expenditure priorities

75.      Following Cabinet approval o f the National Food and Nutrition Security Policy in
     April 2003, a process o f producing a strategy and investment plan was initiated.
     Consultations are under way to involve all including lower government level to
     strengthen the focus on nutrition, food safety and the right to food issues. It is
     expected that the Strategy and Plan shouldbe completed before September 2004.

   Agricultural Research

76.      There have been continuous efforts to improve the efficiency and effectiveness o f
     the National Agricultural Research System (NARS).         Following the adoption o f the
     Plan for the Modernisation o f Agriculture (PMA) in 2000, the National Agricultural
     Research Organisation Research Strategy 2000-2010 and Medium Term Plan (MTP)
     2001-2005 which were launched the following year, were found to be only partially
     compliant with the PMA principles.

77.      Itwas therefore agreed to carry out a review andreform ofthe NARS. As part o f
     this exercise, a National Agricultural Research Policy was approved in2003, while a
     draft Bill to operationalise the policy has been finalised and will shortly be presented
     to Cabinet.    As part o f the same exercise, the MTP has been realigned, while
     proposals have been made to rationalise the network o f agricultural research facilities
     nationally and to review the staffing requirements o f NARO, in line with its revised
     functions as detailed inthe Bill. It i s plannedthat the key activities under the NARS
     reformprocess will have been completed by the endof 2004.

                                              52

78.       The main objectives o fthe reform are to:

          e      Promote demand-driven, farmer responsive research;
          e      Decentralise the delivery and hndingo f research and outreach services;
          e      Promote private sector participation in the delivery and financing o f
                 agricultural research;
          e      Introduce competitive mechanisms for financing research; and
          e      Enhance the efficiency and effectiveness o f the institutional arrangements
                 underpinningagricultural research.

   AgriculturalAdvisory Services

79.       NAADS programme implementation that effectively started in July 2001 in 24
     sub-counties in six "trail-blazing" districts, namely Arua, Kabale, Kibaale, Mukono,
     Soroti and Tororo, now covers 21 districts and 153 sub-counties located inall regions
     o f the country. The geographical expansion o f the programme has been phased to
     ensure that sufficient capacity of both the staff and the target group i s developed to
     guarantee its successful implementation. It is planned that all Districts will be
     incorporated by the end o f 2007/08.

80.       As at March 2004, 9,078 farmer groups to be supported under NAADS had
     registered with the programme, while a further 4,124 had been identified and were
     waiting to register. Approximately 60 per cent o f the members o f these groups were
     female.    As at the same date, 796 advisory service contracts had been issued by
     farmers forum, while contracts for a further 109 enterprises were under preparation,
     There were approximately 3 enterprises per sub-County. The contracts were for such
     diverse enterprises that include agro-forestry, bee-keeping, aquaculture, livestock and
     vegetable cultivation - 39 different ones intotal.

81.       By mid March 2004, 3116 technology development sites being usedby 158,424
     farmers had been established. The sites were demonstrating 38 different improved
     technologies relating to a range of enterprises, including vanilla, temperate h i t trees,
     apiary, livestock and fish, and labour saving technologies, such as animal traction for
     land opening and weeding.

82.       The capacity o f approximately 720 existing and potential service providers is
     being developed in various areas, in tandem with those o f the farmers and enable
     themmeet the increasing demand for advisory services from farmers.

   Rural Finance

83.       Access to rural finance services i s an important avenue for increasing the ability
     o f the poor to raise their incomes through growth o f farm and non-farm activities and
     promoting a savings culture. However, the outreach o f rural financial services in
     Uganda i s still low. It i s estimated that 43 percent o f Uganda's population has no
     access to rural financial services, with the unmet needbeing greatest inrural areas.


                                             53

84.       The Government i s committed to promoting access to the rural poor o f financial
      services through growth o f Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs) and Village Rural
      Savings plus Credit programs by provision o f an appropriate policy and regulatory
      environment and capacity building. In collaboration with MFIs, Government has
      developed within the P M A framework a Rural Financial Services Outreach
     Programme to promote private sector led delivery of rural financial services in the
      country, with an institutional capacity building framework for MFIs. The
     implementation o f the programme started in 2003/04. It i s planned that the
     programme will be rolled out to cover the entire country within the next three years.

   Natural ResourceUse and Management

   Land

85.       Land i s a keynatural asset and constitutes more than 50% o f the assets heldbythe
      average poor households in Uganda. It i s important for transforming agriculture and
      increasing household incomes and therefore underpins livelihoods. Currently, only
      one-third o f arable land i s under cultivation. However, recent evidence from the
      Participatory Poverty Assessment indicates that access to land i s increasingly
      becoming a problem for poor people. The main causes are large family sizes, distress
      sales by the poor and inadequate land use planning. Hence, increasing access to land
      and tenure security can have a big impact on the wealth and production potential of
      poor households.

86.       The Land Sector Strategic Plan (LSSP) with a corresponding 10-year investment
      plan was approved for implementation by Cabinet in July, 2002. The LSSP aims to
      provide the operational, institutional and financial framework for the implementation
      o f sector wide reforms, land management including the implementation o f the Land
      Act as well as the relevant provisions o f the Constitution (1995). Within the overall
      framework o f the PMA, the land sector i s participating through the sub-committee on
      Natural Resources to ensure evolvement of synergies for optimal utilisation o f land
      and other natural resources for securing better livelihoods particularly for the poor.
      The following activities have been undertakento enhance implementation of LSSP:

          a       Government (MOPS, MWLE and MFPED) agreed on the staffing plan
                  and institutional issues related to the implementation o f LSSP. All staff o f
                  the LSSP implementation Unitwere inplace by June, 2003;
          a       The guidelines for flow o f funds to district land-boards agreed between
                  MWLE, MOLG, MFPEDand districts havebeen operationalised;
          0       Parliament has approved amendments to the Land Act arising from the
                  above administrative and institutional adjustments required for the
                  implementation o f LSSP;
          a      MWLE has begun pilot activities and programmes related to systematic
                  demarcation in 3 pilot areas, raising awareness o f land rights among
                 women and vulnerable groups, and strengthening common property
                 management systems.


                                              54

          e       Indexing and reconstitution o f Land Registry Records has started for 3
                  districts. MWLE took over full responsibility after the USAID - SPEED
                  Project ended.
          e       MWLE, with financial support from SIDA, contracted a private
                  consultancy firm to prepare a detailed plan for the design, development
                  and implementation o f a Land Information System.
          e       MWLE has developed an Issues Paper for the National LandPolicy and a
                  draft National LandUse Policy.

87.       The following activities are to be carried out within the MTEFperiod:

          e        Completion o fthe National Land Policy andNational LandUse Policy,
          e       Review and revision o f laws and regulations to conform with the
                   Constitution and approved legislative and regulatory framework,
          0        Facilitation o f decentralised institutions indelivery o f land services,
          e        Rehabilitation o f the Land Registry, implementation o f pilots for the
                   National LandInformation System,
          e        Initiation o f a program for training and capacity building for the land
                   sector,
          e        Provide public information on landrights; and
          e        Operationalisationof the Land Fund.

   Forestry

88.       In 2001, Government put in place a National Forestry Policy that sets out the
      vision and guiding principles for the development o f the forestry sector. To
      operationalise this policy, the National Forestry Plan (NFP) has been finalized and i s
      in its early stages of implementation. The NFA Board has been appointed and the
      Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has been recruited. The NFA was launched in April
      28, 2004 by which time all staff had been recruited. The NFA will manage all the
      Central Forest Reserves (CFRs) in a business like manner and i s projected to be able
      to break even by year 4 hence relieving Government the burden of financing the
      management and development o f these reserves. However for the management o f
      Local Forest Reserves (LFRs) and the general extension and technical advisory
      services, the Law provides for establishment o f the District Forestry Services (DFS),
      which will work hand inhand at the district level with other related institutions under
      PMA/NAADS to guide inthe sub-sector activities.

89.       The Sector Working Group (SWG) o f the Environment and Natural Resources
      Sector (ENRS) has made a provision in its MTEF (2004/05-2006/07) for the pilot
      start up o f the establishment of the DFS in 14 districts selected on a basis o f needand
      intensity o f the problem on LFRs. Fundingwill be transferred directly to districts to
      facilitate the management o f LFRs. The MoWLE, through its Forest Inspection
      Division, will provide the technical supervision, monitoring and guidance to the
      districts. Subsequent roll out o f the DFS to all other districts is expected in the
      medium term especially as the funding to the NFA increases towards break even and
      self sustenance. Successful implementation o f this Plan will to a large extent depend

                                                55

     on the proper functioning o f other government policies such as the PMA, Public
     Service Reform, Decentralization, National Environment Action Plan and the LSSP.
     Strengthening inter-sectoral linkages between the forestry sector and other sectors
     will, therefore, continueto be apriority area o f focus inthe coming years.

   EnvironmentalMainstreaming

90.      Population growth in the last decade, coupled with a lack o f appropriate
     agricultural technologies and affordable energy alternatives has caused significant
     land degradation, deforestation, and stress on the productive natural resource base in
     Uganda. Mismanagement o f the natural resources and the environment has
     manifested itself in loss o f agricultural productivity, loss o f forest cover, water
     pollution and a declining resource stock as a result o f over fishing, overgrazing and
     encroachment on wetlands. Consequently the quality o f the environment on which the
     poor dependi s declining, limitingpeople's livelihood opportunities.

91.      Government i s currently trying to ensure adequate integration o f environmental
     sustainability concerns in all government programs to reduce the level and risk o f
     environmental degradation. The National Environmental Management Authority
     (NEMA) is building capacity for environmental management and ownership of an
     environmental agenda at the national, district, and lower government levels. Many
     districts have developed District Environmental Action Plans and have integrated
     environmental concerns into their District Development Plans. NEMA has developed
     guidelines and procedures for strategic and sectoral Environmental Impact
     Assessment (EM). Sector EIAs guidelines have been developed and implemented for
     the roads sector. In addition, draft guidelines for water and sanitation, energy and
     miningsectors will soonbepublished. Work ondeveloping guidelines for agriculture,
     forestry, and wildlife will soon begin. NEMA has also engaged the PMA program to
     ensure that it promotes environmentally sustainable rural development.         Similar
     discussions with the Ministry o f Local Government have led to the development o f
     new local government planningmanuals, which promote environmentally sustainable
     local government planning.

92.      Guidelines for integrating environmental concerns and screening o f sectoral plans
     and programs for the Poverty Eradication Working Group and other budget sector
     working groups were developed last year, and are now used to screen sectoral
     development plans. To consolidate achievements at this level, the working group has
     embarked on developing a sector-wide plan for environment and natural resources
     sector, in line with the new planning framework of Government.             NEMA also
     worked closely with the Poverty Monitoring Unit and Uganda Bureau o f Statistics to
     develop environment indicators for the Government's Poverty Monitoring and
     Evaluation Strategy. The Poverty Monitoring and Analysis Unit recently tested the
     indicators and integrated some, specifically those on access to safe water, forest
     products, and sanitation, inthe strategy. In addition, the current review o f PEAP has
     provided a new opportunity to integrate environmental concerns in this important
     planningframework o f Government.



                                            56

9
l3.     During the MTEF (2004/05-2006/07) NEMA plans to enhance sound
    environmental management compliance through development and enforcement o f
    regulations, standards and guidelines to ensure sustainable access to diverse and
    productive environmental resources by undertaking a number o f focused activities
    that include:

               Strengtheningthe enforcement capacity NEMA; will focus on Gazetting
               additional inspectors and equipping them; complete the development and
               publication o f regulations, standards and guidelines in environmental
               management and reporting; as well as developing capacity in Police and
               the Office o f Directorate o f Public Prosecution (DPP) in environmental
               crime detection and legal interpretation. Efforts are underway to designing
               the compliance assistance programme and providing training to staff on its
               implementing, and also provide resource Materials for NEMA Legal
               Chambers;

               As part o f strengthening environment monitoring and reporting system,
               the Authority is consulted to develop and publish environmental
               monitoring indicators and their parameters for the priority areas o f land
               degradation, range lands, water quality, bio-diversity outside protected
                areas; develop capacity in lead agencies for datdinformation management
               based on the indicators          (training, software provision, database
               development),    and; follow-up sectoral agencies to prepare annual
               performance reportsbased on the developed indicators. The National State
               o f the Environment Report (NSOER); will be prepared and disseminated.
               An integrated database for post-EIA-monitoring, inspections and audits;
               update meta database and equip library will be developed andmaintained.


        e      Develop audit manuals for five critical sectors (sugar, beverages,
                tanneries, garagedpetrol stations & municipal waste) and carry out
                environmental audits.

                Inthe areaof support to local Governments and communities to undertake
                environmental management programmes including development o f local
                environmental action plans, the specific activities to be undertaken by
               NEMAduringthe MTEFperiod include:

                0       Supporting decentralized environment management by reviewing,
                       publishing and disseminating Guidelines for          Decentralised
                       Environment Management already produced.
                D       Conduct training for DECs, LECs, DTPC from selected districts in
                       the areas of; EIA; environment management; valuing natural
                       resources; environmental reporting; policy formulation; bye-law
                        formulation and enforcement; training facilitators to undertake
                       parish consultations; DSOER preparation; and facilitate sub-county
                        level environmental training.



                                           57

              o       Undertake promotion and publicity o f EIA as well as supervision
                      visits and support district and community planning as an integral
                      part o f the local development plan, including providing logistical
                      support and equipment to districts.
              o       Establish and strengthen environmental inspection systems;
                      Environmental      Information    Systems,    and;    Environmental
                      Information     resource   centres   in selected      districts  and
                      Municipalities
              o       Provide support to parishes, sub-counties and districts in
                      preparation o f environment action plans, and to integrate these into
                      the local development plans, and to prepare and produce District
                      State of the Environment Reports (DSOERs).

       a      Enhancing public environmental awareness and mobilization, targeting
              formal education and non formed education sector mainly through;
              training; implementing national public awareness and mobilization
              programmes; developing and implementing specific messages for the
              identified target     stakeholders;  conducting public       awareness and
              mobilization campaigns at all levels; production of community based
              radio, T.V. and video awareness programs; producing and distribute
              quarterly newsletters; organizing national and international Environment
              days: buildingcapacity for and carrying out the production, translation and
              distribution o f    awareness raising, promotional, training & publicity
              materials to target stakeholders;

94.    With regards to support for buildingo f capacity in sector line ministries and lead
    agencies to integrate and implement environmental plans within their sector
    programmes NEMAplansto undertake the following activities:

       e      Produce and distribute tailor-designed training materials to be used for
              developing capacity in 13 lead agencies for datdinformation management
              based on the indicators         (training, equipment provision, database
              development)
       a      Develop guidelines for strategic Impact Assessment; Sectoral EIA
              guidelines, and review andpublishstrategic EIA guidelines,
       a      Train    lead agencies      in Environmental     Legislation,   EIA, waste
              management, environmental audits and standards
       a      Assist Lead Agencies to use Economic Instruments in promoting
              Environment Management; identify environmental concerns to be
              included in sectoral plans and policies; to review their policies and plans
              to assess adequacy o f integration o f environmental issues and concerns,
              and; to participate inand integrate obligations o f international conventions
              intheir policies andplans
       a      Integrate Environmental Education (EE) into the formal sector; evaluate
              the effectiveness and impact o f current EE programmes; develop
              Environmental Education Curriculum Guideline; conduct training for
              tertiary educational institution staff; train trainers in integrating EE in


                                           58

                 curricula, and; compile, edit and disseminate training modules and support
                 materials.

   Agro-ProcessingandMarketing

95*      Agro-processing and marketing constraints continue to inhibit domestic sales and
     exports o f agricultural products thereby inhibiting income growth. Improving access
     to input and output markets by reducing transportation costs and other transaction
     costs remains a key factor to increase agriculture's competitiveness and incomes o f
     the poor. A Marketing and Agro-Processing Strategy (MAPS) has been developed
     under the PMA and includes the following key intervention areas: functional analysis
     of the Ministry o f Tourism, Trade and Industry and its agencies; development o f a
     national trade policy, national capacity buildingfor trade negotiations; makingmarket
     information more accessible; strengthening farmer organisations; enhancing export
     competitiveness;    and infrastructural development.       Within this framework a
     Warehouse Receipt System Billhas been prepared for submissionto Cabinet and task
     teams have beenformed to develop implementation plans for the Warehouse Receipt
     System and Agricultural Commodity Exchange. A review o f the role o f the Uganda
     Coffee Development Authority (UCDA) has been prepared to more clearly delineate
     private and public sector roles in the coffee supply chain, identify institutional and
     regulatory functions o f U C D A that pose obstacles to value addition across the supply
     chain, and propose revisions to regulations and mechanisms for product quality
     enhancement.

   PhysicalInfrastructure

   Roads

96.      The preparation o f the 10 Year- National District and Urban Roads Investment
     Program i s completed following decision and approval o f the Government "White
     Paper" on policy, strategy and implementation o f the district, urban and community
     roads. The construction o f the highest prioritised 1000 km o f district roads, presently
     under design, commenced in2004.

97.      The recently completed study on the establishment o f Uganda National Road
     Agency has beenwidely discussed with various donors. Road Agency Formation Unit
     (MU) in the MoWHC has been successful and efficient, but the Unit represents
     only a nucleus o f the plannedNational Road Agency. MoWHC will become a policy
     and regulatory authority. Maintenance o f the national roads will also be gradually
     transferred for implementation to RAFURoadAgency.

   PILLAR 4: Actions which directly improve the quality of life of the
   poor

98.      Government has a major role to play in improving the quality o f life o f the poor
     through the provision o f essential social services. Following the recommendations o f
     the PEAP in 1997, Government has substantially increased the proportion of the total

                                             59

       budget devoted to key poverty reducing services to 36 percent in2002/03. While this
       has already had a significant impact on poverty in some areas, for example, through
       the enormous increase in educational enrolment, service delivery has yet to improve
       inproportionto the increased funding.

99.         Government i s determined to resolve the key bottlenecks which are holding back
       improved service delivery. Cross-cutting issues include public service management
       and pay, the fiscal transfer system, results orientation, public sector procurement,
       financial      management        and accountability,     monitoring and evaluation,               and
       transparency and corruption, which have been discussed above. Others are sector-
       specific. Iwish to highlight that the three sectors: education, health and water and
       sanitation are o f greatest concern to the poor.

   Education

100.        Government's Universal Primary Education (UPE) policy has dramatically
       increased primary school enrolment since 1997 and increased access to education for
       the children o f poor households. UPE has thus eliminated the wealth bias that had
       characterised access to primary education. The key challenges now are to improve the
       quality o f primary education and maintain high enrolments. Government needs to
       increase the stock o f classrooms, the number o f qualified teachers, the supply and
       utilisation o f instructional materials, the efficiency o f input use, and improve
       accountability and transparency. In order to sustain UPE it i s also important to
       increase access to post-primary education for primary school leavers. Government
       has been working closely with all stakeholders within the institutional arrangements
       of the sector-wide approach (SWAP) inthe Education sector.

101.        Reviews continue to be the main forum for agreeing undertakings for budget
       allocation and monitoring progress in the sector.               These Reviews also examine
       progress in meeting triggers and benchmarks for release o f funds by budget support
       funding agencies in the sector.              The tenth Education Sector Review, held in
       November 2003, assessedperformance against critical education sector indicators for
       the FY2002/2003 as agreed at the Education Sector Review o f May 2003, and
       confirmed satisfactory implementation of the undertakings.                 The following critical
       indicators were also confirmed compared with the outturns for 2001/02 (in
       parenthesis):


                0                    Average Pupil: Teacher Ratio 56:l (57:l).
                0                    Average Pupil: classroom ratio 94:1(94: 1).
                0                    Pupil: Textbook Ratio 3:1for Primary 3 and4 (zero)'*.

102.        The following indicates the impact o f reforms undertaken under PRSC4, sectoral
       outcomes, as well as actions that will be undertaken inthe short and medium-term in
       order to achieve these targets.


   l2Because o f the introduction o f new curriculum I the FY 2000101, which necessitated invalidating the
   existing stock o f books, the procurement was to be done intwo phases: for P3 to P4; and then for P5 to P7.
   P1to P2 use nonbook instructional materials.

                                                     60

        e     Government recognises with great concern the declining number o f
              teachers on the payroll (from 122,055 in April 2003 to 121,772 in
              September, 2003) and the deterioration inthe pupil: teacher ratio from the
              April 2003 level o f 56:l to a projected level o f 59:l by April 2004.
              Remote areas are worst hit. Several o f the issues concerning teacher
              recruitment are beyond the education sector, includinginadequate capacity
              bythe District Service Commissionsto recruit teachers.

        e     Emphasis will be put on cost efficiency measures so as to reach the targets
              within a constrained resource envelope. The Review provided guidance
              on sector priorities to be reflected in the MTEF, and areas where savings
              and efficiencies can be made. Within this framework, budget ceiling for
              primary will remain at least 65% for FY04/05, while the remaining
              percentage will go to the other sub-sectors. Future sub-sector shares will
              be discussed and agreed within the sector working group, taking into
              considerationpolicy initiatives inthe PEAP I1and ESSP (2004-2015).


        e     Government recognizes the cross-cutting issues, raised by the Review
              which are beyond the purview o f the Ministryo f Education and Sports;
              as follows:

              o       The need for settingup mechanisms for assessing and reporting on
                      the reduction o f Adult literacy. Itwas noted that attainment o fthis
                      Goal i s within the jurisdiction o f the Ministry o f Gender, Labour
                      and Social Development, and the interface with MoES needs to be
                      agreed;
               o      The need for improved Inter-ministerial collaboration in planning
                      and implementation o f programs targeted at better service delivery
                      in insurgency and disaster areas in order to improve resource
                      mobilization and efficiency; and
               o      The importance o f primary health care training institutions
                      transferred to Ministry o f Education and Sports, and recommended
                      their funding to be included under PAF. Further, as part of the
                      PEAP revision process, the Ministry o f Education and Sports
                      would work closely with the Ministry o f Health to articulate the
                      linkage o f these institutions to poverty eradication.

103.    The Government has satisfactorily implemented the following undertakings
     agreed in the Education Sector Review o f April 2003 and confirmed by the
     November 2003 review.

  Financial Commitment

   e    Budget allocation and releases are in line with GoU guidelines and maintained a
        minimumo f 31%o f recurrent discretionary expenditure for education and at least
        65% o fthe education sector budget for primary education was released.


                                           61

Public Expenditure Management

       A progress report on the implementation o f the Financial Management
       Strengthening Component o f the Second Economic and Financial Management
       Project andFinancial Accountability Project was produced (April 2003).

       A tracking study on a value for money audit for School Facilities Grant was
       carried out anddiscussed at the November2003 Education Sector Review.

       Preparations are finalised for a Tracking Study now agreed to be on the allocation
       and utilisation o f resources in institutions and Ministry o f Education and Sports
       departments whose roles directly impact on the quality o f learning in the Primary
       Sub-sector.   The Institutions include - Uganda National Examination Board
       (UNEB), Education Standards Agency (ESA), National Curriculum Development
       Centre (NCDC), PrimaryTeacher Educationand Pre-primary Education).

Quality Enhancement


0      Pupil: Teacher ratio calculated nationally and by district at: 56:1and monitored in
       ten targeted districts


0      Pupil: Core Textbook Ratio (PBR) calculated nationally andby district: 3:1for P3
       and P4.


0      Pupil Classroom Ratio calculated nationally and by district: 94:1and monitored in
       ten targeteddistricts

Outcome (equitable quality): Government will measure and report on the following
indicators.

e      Share o f appropriate age range o f girls and boys inP7 nationally and by district.

0      Net enrolment ratios, particularly for the most educationally disadvantaged
       districts.


0      Primary Completion Rates and survival rates using EMIS data.


0      Percentage o f pupils reaching defined level o f competency in Numeracy and
       Literacy inEnglishfor Grade 3 and 6 usingthe recently concluded survey

Equitable Access: A costed framework for basic education for disadvantaged children fed
into the October 2003 ESR andthe 2004/05 planningandbudgetingcycle.

Teacher Recruitment: Action plan for increasing the numbers o f teachers on the payroll
was developed and the following have been achieved.


                                           62

  0       The establishment ceilings hadbeenreworked andaligned to the national target o f
          52:l for PTR and this was expected to be met in June 2004. After consultations
          with stakeholders, the Ministry o f Public Service will only be inposition to raise
          the Payroll figure to 126,384 by June 2004 instead o f 132,500 teachers on the
          Payroll.


  0       The staff establishment ceilings for all districts have beenharmonized;


  0       The target districts were re-appraised in light o f harmonized establishment
          ceilings;


  0       A revised action plan to focus on new targets and target districts has been
          produced; and


  0       Future targets for the teacher recruitment were proposed at the loth November
          ESR.

  Strategic Plan for Higher Education: A draft strategic plan for Higher Education was
  produced, and discussed with all stakeholders at a national Stakeholders' conference held
  on 21St/22"d October 2003 and during the lothESR.

  A National Assessment System: The draft report was produced and discussed by M & E
  working group, SPM working group on 8thOct.             2003 and at the lothESR and will be
  harmonized with the curriculum review process which i s underway.

  An Instructional Materials Unit: The Ministry o f Public Service      (MOPS) approved the
  creation o f this unit in MoES. MoES declared the vacancies to ESC. ESC has granted
  the authority to retain staff on contract with effect from July 2003 pendingconclusion o f
  the recruitment process. The unitwill beplaced inthe Directorate o f Education.

  Construction Management Services Unit: MOPS approved the creation o f this Unit in
  MOES. MOES declared the vacancies to Public Service Commission. Public Service
  Commission has advertised most o fthe key positions inthe Unit.

  Health

104.      The agreed strategic direction for the health sector is currently set out in the
      Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) for 2000/01 to 2004/05, aimed at reducing
      morbidity and mortality from major causes o f illhealth inUganda and the disparities
      therein, as a contribution to poverty eradication and economic and social development
      of the people. The need for Government intervention inhealth is clear, given market
      failures in the provision o f health services and the public good characteristics o f a
      healthy population in contributing to the development of the economy and to the
      welfare o f the population. Given varying needs and limited resources, there i s a clear
      need to target      health care resources at vulnerable groups in the population. The
      HSSP proposes that these should include: the poor, women, children, physically and



                                              63

      mentally disabled people, nomadic pastoralists, internally displaced persons and other
      hard to reach groups.

105.       The Uganda National Minimum Health Care Package outlined in the HSSP
      specifically targets vulnerable groups and hrther prioritisation in recent years has
      demonstrated the health sector's commitment to needs based service delivery. The
      Joint Review Mission November 2003 noted with satisfaction that the progress
      observedinthe first two years o f the HSSP, hadbeen maintained during the third year
      o f the HSSP (Financial Year 2002/03) andperformancehas been satisfactory.

  Progress

106.       The performance o f districts in accordance with selected indicators such as an
      availability o f drugs, health service delivery, financial and information management
      was assessed and the results compiled in a table (league table). Inparticular, flow o f
      PHC conditional grants was noted to be running smoothly. A study trucking on
      accessing o f drugs and equipment under centralised procurement was undertaken to
      determine the extent to which the intended objectives are attained. The findings will
      be disseminated at a stakeholders' workshop and thereafter, the recommendations
      will be considered for implemented. To ease the procurement o f drugs for the health
      facilities a drug tracking study was done and as a result, credit lines for procurement
      o f drugs were established. To further improve the administration o f drugs a draft
      policy on the anti retroviral drugs i s ready for discussion and approval. To consolidate
      the partnership with the private sector, a draft policy on the partnership with the
      private not for profit health service providers i s ready. Action has therefore been
      taken to establish a coordinating mechanism and a legal framework on general
      research and development.

   Table: Progressagainst PEAPIndicators

   Indicator                                     Baseline        20001        20011     20021
                                                  Value           01           02         03
                                                 1999100
   OPD Utilisation                                 0.40          0.43         0.60       0.72
   DPT 3 / Pentavalent vaccine coverage            41 %          48 %         63 %       84%
   Deliveries at HealthFacilities                25.2 Yo        22.6 Yo       19 Yo     20.3 %
   ApprovedPosts filled by Trained                 33 %          40%          42%        67%
   HealthWorkers ( excluding Nursing
   Assistants )
   National Average HIV Sero -                    6.8 %          6.1 %        6.5 Yo     6.2%
   prevalence as captured from ANC
   Surveillance sites

   ReproductiveHealth

107.       Whereas a slight improvement has been registered inperformance with respect to
      deliveries in health facilities, the utilisation o f the health facilities for safe deliveries


                                                64

     remains unacceptably low. The proportion o f expecting women who deliver in
     government and PNFP health units has risen from 19% to 20.3% between 2001/02
     and 2002/03.

108.     Access to quality reproductive health services has been identified as the number
     one barrier to improved services in Uganda. Government o f Uganda conducted an
     emergency obstetric care needs assessment, contraceptive commodity needs
     assessment and finalised the MOFP-led review o f maternal and infant mortality in
     Uganda. Government will initiate the rollout of the emergency obstetric care in all
     districts and complete the Needs Assessment in the remaining 37 districts. An
     advocacy tool for reduction o f maternal mortality was also developed. These form a
     solid basis for further review duringplanning andpolicy drafting process.

  Human Resources

109.     Concerning the indicator of approved posts filled by trained health workers, a
     Health Workers Inventory, which has long been needed and was indicated as a
     priority by the MTR, has now been compiled. The figure o f 67% that has been used
     as the HSSP Indicator in the above table i s based on inventory figures obtained
     recently from the districts and compares actual numbers o f health staff against HSSP
     staffnorms. Government i s now addressing the following:


         0       Gap between staff norms and salary budgets
         0       Harmonizing managementand outputs o f training schools
         0       Increasing recruitment and retention o f health workers especially in hard-
                 to-reach areas.

110.     In the near future, Ministry of Health will work closely with the stakeholder
     Government will initiate the scaling up o f training and improvement o f the quality
     and outputs o f health workers o f HSSP. A technical committee will be appointed to
     implement the recommendations o f the Social Services Committee o f Parliament on
     revisiting the minimum entry requirements for entry into Health Training Schools, In
     addition, a tracking study on human resource training, outputs, recruitment,
     deployment and access to payroll, retention and promotion.

  National HIV sero-prevalence

111.     The national average has stabilised between 6 and 7% for the last 4 years. The
     value for 2002 i s 6.2% which i s an improvement on the 6.5% o f 2001, but still off the
     target for the year o f 5.8%.  Government will intensify its effort to scale up capacity
     building for Anti retroviral therapy management and uptake to all District and NGO
     Hospitals.

   Community mobilization

112.     The Ministry o f Health plans to intensify strategic direction and advocacy for
     community mobilization, and empower communities to manage o f their own health.


                                            65

     This will involve initiating and further developing guidelines for community
     Dialogue, mobilisation and participation in health promotion and health services
     delivery. This way the Ministry o f Health will address the low levels o f knowledge,
     good practice and behaviourinthe communities.

  Social Health Insurance

113.     The Health sector will introduce Social Health Insurance in the Financial Year
     2004/05 to be implemented in a stepwise manner starting with formal sector
     employees.

  Sanitation

114.     Government will establish a sub-sector working group for sanitation to coordinate
     and liaise with sanitation stakeholders and operationalise the Memorandum o f
     Understanding; outlining budget mechanisms for sanitation at all levels and testing
     models inselected districts and urban councils (as was adopted by the Water Sector).

  Drugs

115.     Government will examine the requirements for additional working capital/stock
     financing for National Medical Stores (NMS) and related capacity to ensure zero
     tolerance for stock outs o f essential drugs and health supplies and propose a
     mechanismto providesuch funding andrequiredsupport to the stores

   Water and Sanitation

116.     The Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Programme (UPPAP) indicated
     water and sanitation services to be a high priority for the poor. In response to this,
     Government has doubled the proportion o f the discretionary budget allocated to water
     supply and sanitation (WSS) from 1.7 percent in 1998/99 to 3.3 percent in 2001/02
     and has formulated sector strategies and drawn up investment programs for rural
     water and sanitation and urbanwater supplied sanitation.

117      Inpartnershipwith donors and other key stakeholders, Government has adopted a
     sector-wide approach (SWAP) to the WSS sector based on community demand-
     orientation, decentralised management through local governments, combined with
     central government facilitation and delivery o f services by the private sector. The
     SWAP will be broadened to incorporate water for production and water resources
     management components as soon as the sub-sector strategies are completed. To
     strengthen collaboration and the SWAP for the Water and Sanitation Sector, three
     joint Government-Donor Water Sector reviews were held in September 2001, 2002
     and 2003, and a Technical Review in March 2004. MWLE carried out a technical
     audit (value for money) and a tracking study in November 2002 and March 2003,
     respectively, to monitor the programs. MWLE i s planning to establish a monitoring
     protocol that draws on the routine returns from districts, annual household and service
     delivery surveys, other surveys, and annual reports entitled "State o f the WSS
     Sector."

                                           66

  RuralWater and Sanitation

118.     Inrural WSS, Government intendsto increase access to safe water and sanitation
     from the present 54 percent to at least 58 percent by June 2006 within the indicative
     MTEF ceilings. In pursuance o f this objective, Government has strengthened the
     capacity o f districts by setting up District Water Offices and recruiting suitable staff
     to man them. The full compliment o f District Water Sector staffing is being reviewed
     under the ongoing Local Government restructuring exercise, which will lead to full
     integration o f the District Water Office staff in the district structures and payroll
     management. All districts are expected to achieve full staffing and training o f District
     Water Officers by June 2006. DWD has been reorganizedto support district capacity
     building and delivery o f technical assistance to District Water Offices through the
     establishment o f Technical Support Units (TSUs), which are fully operational.

119.     To enhance sustainability of rural WSS systems, Government has reviewed
     existing operation and maintenance arrangements and finalised the district WSS
     operational manual and implementation guidelines. Special attention i s being paid to
     the establishment and maintenance of the spares supply chain to support community
     maintenance efforts. This strategy is based on the utilisation o f the private sector and
     full community cost recovery for operation and maintenance. Through this strategy,
     the percentage o f systems that are functional at any time is expected to be at least 80
     percent.

120.     At the same time, Government, through the combined efforts o f the Ministry o f
     Water, Lands and Environment (MWLE), MOES and M O H has agreed on
     institutional responsibilities for sanitation and has prepared a National Hygiene
     Promotion, Sanitation and Communication Strategy. In addition, Government
     introduced and pre-tested templates for environmental screening o f sub projects in
     districts. Government has also taken steps to ensure efficient use o f resources andhas
     undertaken Value for Money technical audits and i s addressing the findings o f the
     studywith progress reportedto the Joint Government-Donor sector reviews.

121.     A survey on the Private Sector (including NGOs) capability to support district
     planning and implementation o f water sector programmes has been undertaken and
     the results were disseminated in March              2004 review. The findings and
     recommendations o f these studies will be used in the formulation of sector capacity
     building strategies, revision o f the Conditional Grant Implementation Guidelines and
     Sector Monitoringand Evaluationprocedures.

   Urban Water and Sanitation

122.     Inurban WSS, the objective is to improve safe WSS coverage 65 percent by FY
     2003/04. The urban sector consists o f 78 urban centres and district towns. Based on
     the recommendations o f the recent urban WSS Reform study, Government will seek
     to introduce efficiency and commercial orientation into the management o f urban
     WSS. Assets management for small towns is and will continue to be managed by the
     local councils with the support o f DWD. The larger towns under a Lease Contract

                                             67

     Asset Management and Investment Planning will be transferred to a dedicated
     publicly owned Asset Holding Authority. All technical, commercial and financial
     operations in both regimes will be sub-contracted to independent professionalprivate
     operators under a two pronged strategy:

123.      Small Urban WSS systems under local government management: Government
     has gazetted 56 Local Councils as urban WSS authorities that will have overall
     responsibility for asset management. It has also commenced the sub-contracting o f
     service provision operations to local private sector operators under management
     contracts to improve service delivery and increase sustainability. To date, 43 Local
     Councils have fully functional water supply systems while the rest are under
     construction. O f the existing 43 water supply systems, 35 were by April 2004 being
     operated and managed by private service providers. To strengthen sustainability o f
     facilities and services and investments in the small towns, a tariff study and a long-
     term strategy for Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation were completed in June
     2003. These studies will enable Government to develop Urban WSS project appraisal,
     financing and       performancemeasuring indicators;

124.      Government through MWLE and MoFPED has continued to make considerable
     progress in putting the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) on a
     firmer financial footing ahead o f the transition to a higher level o f Private Sector
     Participation (PSP). The NWSC has had experience o f two PSP management regimes
     inthe Kampala Area, which accounts for about 70% ofthe NWSC operations. These
     have included the Kampala Revenue Improvement Project (KRIP 1998-2001) and
     ONDEO Services Contract (OSUL 2002- 2004).

125.      June 30th 2003 marked the end o f the three year Performance Contract signed
     between the GoU and the NWSC. The Performance Contract Review Committee,
     established a remarkable NWSC performance against the set targets, save for the
     unaccounted for water targets for Kampala. The implementation o f the Contract was
     backed by successive short-term strategies which included the Service and Revenue
     Enhancement Programme and the Stretch Out Programme.           Government signed a
     second Performance Contract with the NWSC which took effect from July 1'' 2003
     and is to last for a period of three years. As a means o f further enhancing its
     performance, the NWSC has transformed the Area Performance Contracts (APCs)
     into Internally Delegated Area Management Contracts (IDAMCs), with the objective
     o f increasing autonomy and introducing a performance based pay system. This i s in
     line with the sector reform objectives o f separating asset holding from operations
     management.

126.      Inregardto WaterUtilitybills, Governmenthas fulfilleditsobligations underthe
     Memorandum o f Understanding (MoU) signed between the Ministry o f Finance,
     Planning and Economic Development and the NWSC on lothApril 2003. As at end
     January 2004, Government had released to the Ministries the Ushs.5.7 billion for
     verified arrears up to June 2002. According to the new Performance Contract between
     the GoU and NWSC, the GoU agreed to freeze the NWSC debt servicing obligations
     until such a time that the capacity of the NWSC to service its debt is determined


                                           68

     during the due diligence to be carried out when implementing the enhanced PSP
     transaction.

127.     The Joint Sector Review by the Government and its Development Partners o f
     September 2003 agreed on a number o f Policy actions aimed at continuing and
     accelerating the implementation o f the Urban Water Reform Process. As a first step,
     the Implementation Technical Committee (ITC) for the Reform was inaugurated on
     2gthJanuary 2004. The MWLE i s inthe process o f engaging a Consultant to provide a
     practical framework to enhance the provision o f water and sewerage services in the
     urban centres. The tasks of the consultant will include analysing and evaluating
     options for enhanced PSP (market testing) taking into account the changes inthe PSP
     market world wide, and the internalNWSC enhancement strategies.

  Undertakings for the MediumTerm

128.     Undertakings agreed in September 2003 at the sector review, and confirmed at
     the technical review inMarch2004 are as follows:


             0   Revise sector investment and operational plans (objectives, targets,
                 allocation principles, service levels, etc) within the Medium Term
                 Expenditure Framework


             0   Develop and initiate implementation o f a subsidy policy and strategy for
                 the sector as a whole (water supply, sanitation, etc) that emphasizes the
                 provision o f accelerated and sustainable access to water and sanitation
                 services for the poor


             0   Accelerate the implementation o f the institutional reform process in the
                 urban water and sanitation sub sector with emphasis on operation and
                 maintenance strategies to improve functionality and       for response to
                 emergency water and sanitation situations


             0   Establish a sanitation subgroup for the Water Sector Working Group
                 (WSWG) to coordinate and liaise with sanitation stakeholders in the
                 operationalisation o f the Memorandum o f Understanding(MoU) focusing
                 inthe following:

                     o Clear budget mechanisms for sanitation at all levels to fulfil the
                         institutional mandates as reflectedinthe M o U
                     o Test models inselected districts andurban councils to guide future
                         strategy, work plans, budgets, implementation mechanisms and
                         coordination at district level
                     o Carry out comprehensive performance monitoring o f the sector,
                         based on recommended framework including undertaking          out
                         Value for Money Audit and tracking studies as required for the
                         centre and local government levels



                                             69

   Co-ordinationandImplementation

129.     Government i s cognisant o f the need to establish an effective co-ordination
     mechanism in order to ensure successful implementation o f the identified actions for
     the achievement o f the overall objective o f improving basic service delivery.
     Considering the level o f resources requested from the IDA under the PRSC3, together
     with the complementary resources from other donors, it i s critical to ensure effective
     supervision o f the implementation o f the credit. Government has established a four-
     tier coordination system for PRSC to ensure progress with reforms: (i)    Cabinet Sub
     Committee on Policy Coordination (CCPC) comprising Ministers of coordinating
     Ministries under the chairmanship o f the Prime Minister; (ii)Implementation
     Coordination Steering Committee (ICSC) composed of all the Permanent Secretaries
     under the chairmanship o f the Head o f Public Service/Secretary to Cabinet;        (iii)
     Technical Implementation Coordination Committee (TICC) i s a multi-sectoral
     technical committee to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Office o f the Prime
     Minister; and (iv) Sector Working Groups (SWG), these bring together all sectoral
     stakeholders to discuss sectoral efforts in implementation o f sector activities. This
     mechanism facilitates intra-sectoral coordination for the realization o f sector targets
     and goals. SWGs meet regularly (at least every two months), and report quarterly to
     ICC. There i s also ajoint secretariat to service PCC and ICC.

   Conclusions

130.     IwouldliketotakethisopportunitytoreiteratethecommitmentofGovernment
     to the implementation o f the Poverty Eradication Action Plan. The actions to be
     undertaken over the mediumterm under each PEAP pillar focus on measures that will
     improve, through greater efficiency and effectiveness, both the quantity and quality o f
     service delivery, particularly to the poor.

131.     Increased efficiency o f service delivery implies improved management systems
     and practices in the public sector, including improved financial accountability.
     Improved effectiveness o f service delivery requires closer alignment between
     outcomes and policy objectives through greater focus on service outputs during
     budget preparation. The requested financing is expected to support the critical
     Government reforms set out in this letter and to enable achievement o f those
     objectives.




                                             70

71

      k
     k




E0
E
Y
sm
M

.^
m




      I

LT       ImY




         I  -
9
c
m - 0

4
60 vi
   b
B8
-
t
Y


B

         L




       e8 $0
       EE:      5z




E
C
0
c.l
a
3
Y

     .-I=
     v)


     I6
    ; E




i


b
I



i
.
I




I
i




             m r -
             cod
             N b

0
cc,


Schedule2b: JusticeLaw andOrder Sector ReviewUndertakings

                     UndertakingsConfirmedbyDecember2003 Review

Technical andImplementationIssues
   1. Establisha working group on the use o f agreed monitoring and evaluation tools by
       February 2004 and thus improve the progress reports to include impact and outcome
       indicators.
   2. Re-energize the Gender Working Group through collaborationwith Development Partner
       Gender Working Group and Ministryo f Gender, Labour and Social Development-
       Outputconcrete policy framework and prioritized work plan for FY2005/2006.
   3. Compile a list o f all pending legislation for presentationto P and LA Committee
       including: (i) Location-ULRC/ Line Ministry/FPC; and (ii)       Indicatepriority ranking for
       justice and law and order sector time frame for presentation to Parliament or Cabinet.
   4. Recruitment o f financial management specialist and component managers andtime
       bound action plan.
   5. Provide financial narrative and audit for FY 2002/2003 reports for Criminal and
       Commercial Justice ReformPrograms.
   6. Staffing o f institutional policy and planning units either through restructuringandor
       recruitment or secondment.
   7. Commencement o f audit for Court Awards and Compensations and War Debts
       consultancy.
   8. Formal review o f UHRC Annual report through GOU-Donor liaison meeting.
   9. Completion o f Legal Aid Service Providers' (LASP) baseline survey and implementation
        o f LASP "basket fund".
    10. Completion o f independent "needs assessment" o f company, lands registries, and
        cadastre, and budgeted action plan for incorporation into core Commercial Justice
        Reformprogram.
    11, Justice and law and order sector to present aprogress report o f implementationof anti-
        corruptionpolicy within the sector at each semi-annual review.
    12. Terms o f reference and introductionletter o f assigned development partner to each sector
        institution by February 2004.
    13, One sector institutional visit per quarter by development partners; and
    14. One sector institutional invitations to donor SWAP Legal subsector Group.


Policy Undertakings
    1. Develop definitive policy on futureposition of the Sector Secretariat.
   2. Lobby for a Constitutional Audit.
    3. Pre-constitutionlegislation through Uganda L a w ReformCommission.
   4. Lobby for the establishment of a bill tracking system through collaborationwith the
        Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Committee (Parliamentary Strategic Development and
        InvestmentPlan).
    5. Lobby towards the tabling o f the Domestic RelationsBill inthe 7thParliament and
        Passage o f the Sexual Offences Bill by Cabinet within a timely manner.



                                                82

Schedule 2c: Education Sector Undertakingsconfirmedin November 2003

Government has satisfactorily implemented the following undertakings agreed in the Education
Sector Review of April 2003 and confirmedby the November 2003 review:

1. Financial commitment: Budget and releases in line with the Government o f Uganda
guidelines maintaining a minimum o f 31 percent o f recurrent discretionary expenditure for
education.     At least 65 percent o f the total education sector budget is allocated to primary
education.

2. Publicexpendituremanagement:(i)                Prepare a progress report on the implementation o f the
Financial Management Strengthening Component o f the Second Economic and Financial
Management Project and Financial Accountability Project (April 2003); and (ii)Complete a
tracking study on value for money audit for School Facilities Grant Program.

3. Qualityenhancement: (i)Pupil-teacher ratio calculated nationally and by district: 55: 1; (ii)
Pupil-core textbook ratio 3:113; (iii)     Pupil-classroom ratio calculated nationally and by district:
94:1

4.   Outcome(equitable quality):
         a.         (i)Share of appropriate age range of girls and boys inprimary grade 714
               nationally and by district (10.74 percent boys and 9.32 percent girls); (ii)Net
               enrollment ratios, particularly for the most educationally disadvantaged districts
               (101.1 percent for boys and 100.4 percent for girls)l5; (iii)        Primary completion rates
               and survival rates using education management information systems (24 percent boys
               and 21 percent girls);

         b.         Percentage o f pupilsreaching defined levels o f competency inliteracy at primary
               grades 3 and 6; and (v) Percentage o f pupils reaching defined levels o f competency in
               numeracy at primary grades 3 and 6.

5. Develop new critical indicators to reflect realities, aspirations, and targets o f Education
Sector InvestmentProgram (ESP) I1and PEAP 11.

6. Teacher recruitment: Mechanism for monitoring the share o f filled positions strengthened
and an action plan implemented, leading to an increase in the number o f teachers on the payroll
with particular attention to the ten districts with the largest establishment gaps.

7. Strategic plan for higher education: A draft costed strategic plan for higher education,
which has been discussed with a wide range o f stakeholders, to be presented to the November
2003 Education Sector Review.




l3For primary grades 3 and 4.
l4Primary completionrate is defined as the total number    ofpupilsregistered for the primary leaving exam,
regardless o f age, expressed as a percentage o f the population at the official primary graduation age.
l5Number i s about 100percent due to incorrect age reporting and children from neighboring countries
participating inuniversal primary education.

                                                     83

 Schedule 2d: HealthSector UndertakingsConfirmedas implementedinNovember
                                                   2003

1.        Sanitation: Establish a subsector working group for sanitation to coordinate and liaise
with sanitation stakeholders and operationalize the Memorandumo fUnderstanding; outlining
budget mechanisms for sanitation at all levels and testing models inselected districts and urban
councils (as was adopted by the water sector)
2. Financing-Program         9 Tracking Study:
 +        Hold stakeholders' workshop to finalize Program9 Tracking study report;
 +        Implement recommendations
3 .       Drugs: Based on a technical review, examine the requirements for additional working
capital/stock financing for national medical stores and related capacity to ensure zero tolerance
for stock-outs o f essential drugs and health supplies and propose a mechanism to provide such
fundingand required support to nationalmedicalstores.
4.        Humanresources for health: Bringtogether the Ministries o f Health and Education, the
private non-profit health centers, concerned HDPs and other stakeholders to initiate the scaling up
o f training and improvement o f the quality and outputs o f healthworkers for the Health Sector
Strategic Plan.
5.        Ministryo fHealthto appoint atechnical committee to implement the recommendations
of the Social Services Committee o fParliament on revisiting the minimumentry requirements for
entry into health training schools.
6.        H I V / A D S : Scale up capacity building for anti-retroviral therapy management and uptake
to all district and NGO hospitals.
7.        Reproductive health: Initiate the rollout o f emergency obstetric care inall districts and
complete the needs assessment inthe remaining 37 districts
8.        Community mobilization: Initiate and further develop guidelines for community
dialogue, mobilization, and participation inhealth promotion and health services delivery.



Tracking study for FY 2003/04:

Undertake a tracking study on human resource recruitment, deployment, and access to payroll,
retention and promotion. Report to be presented at October 2004 Joint Review Meeting.




                                                   84

     Schedule2e: Water Sector Undertakingsconfirmedin March2004

# Undertaking
   1, Revise sector investment and operational plans (objectives, targets, allocation
      principles, service levels, etc)
   2. Develop and initiate implementationo f a subsidy policy and strategy for the sector as a
     whole (water supply, wfp, sanitation, etc) that emphasizes the provision o f accelerated
      and sustainable access to water and sanitation services for the poor
   3. Accelerate the implementationo f the institutionalreformprocess inthe urbanwater
      and sanitation subsector
   4. Establisha sanitation subgroup for the Water Sector Worlung Group (WSWG) to
      coordinate and liaise with sanitation stakeholders and operationalize the Memorandum
      o f Understanding(MoU) (Administrative arrangements such as a taskforce are needed
     now; if shown to be necessary/appropriate, a secretariat function can be considered in
      the future)
   5. To help operationalize the MoUthe subsector working group (and its administrative
      support) will also undertake to establish:
          a.   Clear budget mechanisms for sanitation at all levels to fulfill the institutional
              mandates as reflectedinthe M o U
          b. Test models inselected districts andurban councilsto guide future strategy,
              work plans, budgets, implementationmechanisms and coordination at district
               level
   6. Carry out comprehensive performance monitoring o f the sector, based on
      recommended framework
   7. Carry out VFM and tracking studies as required for the center and local government
      levels
   8, Implement operation and maintenance strategies to improve functionality
   9. Develop and implement strategy and guidelines for response to emergency water and
      sanitation situations




                                          85

a
E
c-'
m

s    B
m




          Y

c
O.3



    a E
     Bt:




8
0           +
            v)
            W
            -3
Y


            I

            3
            i
            id


            C

M
a,

e




       l
       c1
       ul


     $ 2
       e,

      a    a




3
cd
.d

I




         E




     8 :  .   13
              9
          L   r/i



n


               cu




     U    3
    E     3
          3
          3
          9L
Q
0
0
hl
;
x

0
0
[I

     a
     B




x

      i!
      W




a
9             53
0
3a
.3




m
Ew
E
%




        v!




      a9


          Annex 1: Details of Reform Program: Results, Progress, and Strategy

Objectives and scope
8, Objectives. The proposed Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSC4) continues
supporting the implementation o f Uganda's second Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP),
with a particular aim o f improving service delivery and supporting rural development, and builds
upon the program developed under PRSCs 1-3. The reform program supported by PRSC4 aims at
contributing towards several longer-term outcomes, and to have a more direct and measurable
impact on several medium-term outputs, as shown inFigure 1inthe main text above. The Policy
and Results Matrix in Schedule 2 shows outcomes, outputs, and indicators inmore detail.

9. Scope. As described earlier, PRSC4 support has deepened the rural agenda that was added to
the program supported by PRSC2. It continues the expansion o f work on the financial sector
beyond rural finance, and inparticular into pensionreform. Given the need to further expand and
distribute growth benefits, extending the rural development component i s important since most of
the poor live inrural areas and most derive their living from agriculture. Of particular importance
i s the focus on transformation from subsistence to commercial agriculture, consistent with the
objectives o f Uganda's Plan for Modernization o f Agriculture (PMA). Reforming the pension
sector i s critical, since civil service pension obligations consume an increasing portion o f budget
resources and are thereby undermining public service delivery. In addition, PRSC4 supports
Government's focus on the work on gender and infant and maternal mortality and strengthens the
focus on results.


PEAPPillar 1:PRSCreform programinsupport of creating a framework for economic
growth and structural transformation

 Outcome1:Efficientand equitableuse ofpublicresources
 10. Expected outputs over the next three years. Over the course o f the three-year PRSC program
(PRSC4, PRSC5, and PRSC6), Uganda expects to achieve the following:

         Output 1.1         Comprehensive medium-term expenditure framework, facilitates
                            coherent budget management;
         output .2          Strengthened local ownership o f decentralizedpublic service delivery;
         Output .3          Increaseduse o fbeneficiary assessmentsto promote public
                            accountability;
         output .4          Improved fundingand coverage o f national pension schemes;
         output .5          A coherent strategy and clear division o flabor established for M&E;
         output .6          Implications o f gender inequality for growth and development addressed
                            inpolicy andbudgets;
         Output 1.7         Policy and budgets address the implications o f rapid population
                            growthhigh infant and maternalmortality for growth.

Output 1.I: Comprehensive medium-term expenditure framework, facilitates coherent budget
management;
 11. Progress. Given Uganda's participatory and transparent budgetary process, substantial
progress has been made in budgetary allocation and execution. However, this i s not uniform
across all sectors and release o f funds to districts and some sectors i s plagued by substantial
delays. For FY04/05, some sectors-notably         justice, law, and order; agriculture; and defense-
had not been able to articulate their respective output and outcome measures in their budget
fkamework papers as expected.

                                                 103

12. Overspending on public administration and defense has continued to raise concern for budget
management inUganda. Budget outturns inpublic administration-particularly          those of missions
abroad and State House votes-have       consistently been above the line estimates. For example, by
the end o f 3rd quarter o f this fiscal year, public administration had overshot its pro-rata budget
allocation by more than 120 percent. The Defense Review that hasjust been completed and some
o f the recent work on public administration reformhave been developed with the aim o f assisting
the sectors to better prioritize and manage their expenditures.

13. Since the PRSC program began to support implementation o f Uganda's reforms, Government
has tried to address the issue o f donor-funded projects included in the medium-term expenditure
framework (MTEF) ceilings.         For the first time this year, Government proceeded with the
integration o f development partners' project fundinginto the overall budget. However the quality
and reliability o f information on project commitments and expected disbursements still remains in
question.

14. Staffing plans and the wage bill are not integrated into the MTEF, creating bottlenecks in
service delivery and improvement o f quality. Ministry o f Finance, Planning and Economic
Development (MoFPED) and Ministry o f Public Service (MOPS) have developed terms o f
references for a study to develop an action plan and address this issue. If this i s not properly
addressed, the sectors will not be able to allocate their resources among wage, non-wage, and
development categories in the budget framework papers and thereby achieve their respective
targets.

15. Recent reforms in budget legislation such as the Budget Act o f 2001 have strengthened the
budget process by promoting adherence to the budget calendar, clarifying roles and
responsibilities o f sectors, Treasury and Parliament, and also ensuring that supplementary
expenses do not exceed 3 percent o f the total approved budget. Any expenditures exceeding this
limit are subject to Parliamentary approval. Over the past two years, substantial progress has
been made towards a more clearly defined framework and better understanding o f the perverse
implications o fbudget overruns for PEAP implementation.

16. Reform strategy. Inorder to maintain and deepen the integrity and predictability o f the budget
process, the first prior action continues to focus on budget execution and on ensuring that the
PEAP priorities are respected in budget allocations. In previous years when there was concern
over expenditure deviations, budget execution was monitored throughout the whole year, before
going to the Board, as was the case with PRSC3. The PRSC4 policy action agreed therefore, is:
"In the annual PER, GOU has agreed with donors on MTEF for 2003/04-2005/06 and has
executed the budget through the four quarters consistent with the agreed allocations." This action
was carried out under each o f the first three PRSCs and has become annual practice to be
followed inthe next PRSCs. The Semi-annual Performance Report for FY 2003/04 shows that for
the first half o f the year, overall expenditures amounted to 91 percent o f programmed levels, It
was agreed that the PRSC4 would monitor the budget execution throughout the full year, and at
the end o fthe fiscal year, budget execution was inaccordance with the allocations.

17. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: MoFPED refines the agreed
approach, develops and implements the integration plan, and issues additional guidelines for the
2004/05-2006/07 MTEF covering funding shortfalls, technical assistance, and crosscutting
projects. MoFPED has prepared additional guidelines to systematically integrate donor projects
into the next budget cycle. Terms o f reference have also been agreed for a study to implement this
policy.

18. Inorder to monitor allocations, actual expenses, and the competitiveness o f sector programs,
regular budget performance reports have been a feature in Uganda's budget process since the
PRSC program began. Currently, Government publishes semi-annual reports but also makes
available quarterly reports upon request. However, as already highlighted, these reports are


                                                104

expenditure-oriented; they do not assist in budget output monitoring, and are very seldom
discussed with a view to taking actions inareas where performance has been weak.

19. Staffing plans and the wage bill need to be synchronized within the MTEF so that they are
consistent with the PEAP targets. Thus the policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is:
"MoFPED, MOPS, and sector ministries implement an action plan to integrate wage bill and
staffing inthe three sector expenditure plans."
20. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The reform will continue with the
recurring annual action on MTEF and execution o f the budget consistent with the agreed
allocations (2004/05-2006/07 and 2005/06-2007/08). Further, individual sector budget framework
papers will align project proposals with PEAP priorities as identified under the revised PEAP. In
addition, staffing and wage bills for key sectors will be integrated with support from PRSC5, and
additional sectors will be integrated with support from PRSC6. Based on the action plan being
developed for improving the timely release of funds to line ministries and local governments,
specific reform measures will be supported by PRSC5. Inorder to improve the output orientation
o f the budget, support will be provided for the development o f output-oriented budgeting o f
defense and accountability, in addition to deepening the output-oriented budget reforms started
under past PRSCs in other sectors.


Output I.2: Strengthened local ownership of decentralized public sewice delivery
21. Progress: Over the years, Government has taken remedialmeasures to improve the speed and
timeliness o f resource flows between the center and the local governments, but the problem still
persists. Agencies responsible for service delivery programs at the sectoral and district levels
cannot plan and manage programs properly when the Treasury does not release funds as agreed
and does not provide adequate notice o f changes in allocations. During 2001102, fiscal
decentralization was implemented in 15 pilot local governments (12 districts and 3
municipalities). This has helpedto improve resource flow.

22. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support by PRSC4 is: Initiate a study to
determine the scope o f the resource flow problem and propose remedial action focusing on
transfers to local governments and to central govemment for utility and tax payments. As part o f
the fiscal decentralization strategy (FDS), Government i s committed to reducing the number o f
conditional and non-conditional grants extended to the districts. Government has proposed
merging development and recurrent transfers in order to strengthen local ownership and reduce
reporting requirements. Based on the operational manuals and guidelines prepared with support
from PRSC3, the pilot implementation o f the FDS i s ongoing in the pilot local governments.
Government has agreed to review this pilot and address any remaining areas before rolling it out
to all districts in 2004/5. The FDS aims to address the problem where local governments have to
prepare reports and to account for each o f the various conditional grants they receive from the
central government. Local governments are compelled to operate very many bank accounts-in
some cases more than 100-and      needto provide reports and accountability to MoFPED for every
conditional grant. This means that they are so preoccupied with reporting on receipts that they
cannot implement other activities. A chart o f accounts developed under Uganda's new integrated
financial management system i s intended to address this problem and to give flexibility to the
local governments by allowing them to allocate at least 10 percent o f the conditional grant to
areas they consider to be o fpriority to them.
23. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: PRSC5 support would assist with the
fiscal decentralization strategy in pilot districts and resolve any constraints before the strategy i s
implemented in all districts. The ultimate goal i s that by 2005/06 Government will begin
implementing the FDS in all districts. PRSC6 support will assist in deepening FDS-related



                                                105

reforms, based on the review o f the FDS. Support by PRSCs 5 and 6 will seek to synchronize the
FDS roll out with the implementation o f the integrated financial management system.


Output 1.3: Increased use of beneJiciary assessments topromote public accountability
24. Progress. Evidence from public expenditure tracking studies (PETS) and studies on
corruption have shown that increased public knowledge reduces the tendency for corruption and
improves financial  accountability in public offices. For example, evidence from PETS 1 and 2
shows that in 1995, before districts and government-aided primary schools were required to
display capitation grants on notice boards in public areas, only about 20 percent o f the funds
remitted reached the intended beneficiaries. However, by 2001, the proportion o f funds received
at the program-implementing units had improved to more than 80 percent. Health, education,
water and sanitation and the justice, law, and order sector have undertaken various studies
(beneficiary assessments, value-for-money and expenditure tracking studies) that were discussed
in their respective sector reviews. However, little effort has been made to use these studies in
improving efficiency through sector reforms.

25. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: MoPS, together
with other ministries, establishes service delivery standards based on national service delivery
survey results and beneficiary assessments. T o ensure that services delivered are o f good quality
and meet the basic standards, it has been agreed that in addition to the national service delivery
survey, regular beneficiary assessments should be carried out. Inthis regard, citizens' report cards
have been introduced as a pilot for improving service delivery, and most sectors are undertaking
value-for-money studies, expenditure tracking surveys, and technical audits help in reducing
inefficiencies inpublic expenditures.

26. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: Over the next two years, MoPS will
introduce the pilot beneficiary techniques in order to institutionalize these instruments as part o f
improving service delivery. The reforms will seek to expand the reforms related to systematizing
beneficiary assessments, citizens' report card pilot, value for money studies, and other technical
audits across all sectors to improve service delivery standards.


Output I.4: Improvedfunding and coverage of nationalpension schemes
27. Progress. Pension obligations for the public service and armed forces have accumulated
obligations o f more than USh 265 billion, and represent an unsustainable budgetary commitment.
Serious concerns have been raised about the management, administrative costs, and investment
choices and returns o f the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). Pension arrangements for the
private sector needbetter management, returns, and regulation as a basis for expanded coverage.
Cost implications o f different options for pension reform are being analyzed this year. The Social
 Security Stakeholder Transition Group (STG), established by the Ministry o f Gender, Labor, and
 Social Development, has consulted widely and presented its report, "The Challenges and
Financing of Social Security and Pension Reform in Uganda: The Tripartite Consultative
Process, Policy Recommendations, and the Way Forward            'I.Progress in undertaking actual
reforms has been delayed by the decision to have wider stakeholder consultations. Government
intends to obtain commentary from a range o f sources on the extensive recommendations and
way forward, and in particular to cost out the alternative approaches for pension reform so that
 obligations can be fully funded. NSSF i s in the process o f restructuring and introducing a
 comprehensive financial procedures manual, as well as new information technology systems.

 28. Significant challenges remain in terms o f maintaining improvements in investment portfolio
performance and in governance and management as the insurance industry moves toward a more
 competitive environment. The insurance sector has been liberalized and new companies and
brokers have entered the market, but supervision needs to be strengthened to ensure adequate

                                              106

capitalization as the industry expands Insurance companies and brokers are complying with new
regulations. With new insurance regulations enacted by MoFPED and a new Board for the
Uganda Insurance Commission (UIC) inplace, explicit policy actions will no longer be needed in
the Policy Matrix, assuming verification that U I C i s ensuring compliance with the new
regulations through regular on-site inspections o f all insurance companies and brokers.

29. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: "MoFPED
initiates a study to assess cost implications o f STG recommendations for a regulatory framework
for a liberalized pension sector." Recommendations have been made to move from a defined
benefit to a defined contribution approach and to fully fund pension obligations, consistent with
international best practices and sound fiscal management. Recommendations to liberalize the
sector and establish a competent independent regulator likewise are consistent with international
best practices. It has been recommended that the National Social Security Fund Board, and
investment decisions, should be independent o f Government and that an independent internal
auditor, to report to the Board, be appointed. Given the critical issue o f budgetary implications,
MoFPED will now be directly involved in the process o f pension reform, focusing initially on
preparing terms o f reference and implementing studies on those aspects related to pensions and
financial markets. The Pension Reform Operational Strategies and Tools (PROST) actuarial and
demographic model should be applied to test the affordability o f the various pension benefits
packages and parametric changes now under consideration. This will be done using staff
sponsored by the World Bank to obtain the requisite skills. Other aspects o f social protection
recommendations by the STG that are not amenable to financing through pension schemes should
be addressed separately incollaborationwith the relevant sector groups (e.g., medicarehealthand
education benefits).

30. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: With support from PRSC5, MoFPED
will focus on the use o f the cost, actuarial, and other studies to prioritize options to reduce the
implicit pension debt that i s associated with the public sector pension system. Discussions o f
these options, as well as other issues o f broader reform in the pension sector, with stakeholders
should lead to preparation o f an action plan for reform, and initial steps toward liberalization o f
the sector, which would be more fully implemented supported by PRSC6, including any needed
policy and legislative reforms.


Output 1.5:A coherent strategy and clear division of labor establishedfor M&E
3 1, Progress. Despite improvements in economic management and poverty reduction over the
last 15 years, Uganda's public service delivery i s still marked by limited effectiveness and low
value-for-money. While the introduction o f several new M&E systems and practices over the last
decade has helped to bring a measure o f rationality and results-orientation to Uganda's national
decision-making, there are some signs of M&E overload, whereby the reporting demands o f
multiple, parallel M&E arrangements place an unnecessary burden on line managers, without
instillinga satisfactory orientationtowards achievingresults.

32. Onthe positive side, Uganda's experience withpublic expenditure tracking studies has shown
how transparency can be a powerful vehicle for improving the quality o f service delivery. With
this instrument o fpublic accountability and the publication o f financial releases inthe localpress
and notice boards, managers have become more responsive to constituency needs and
satisfaction. More broadly, the experience has demonstrated the importance o f tapping the
potential o f communities to monitor public expenditures for effective service delivery on a
continuous basis. A draft national integrated M&E strategy that identifies M&E challenges and
constraints has been prepared.

33. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: Under the
National Integrated M&E System initiative, the Office o f the Prime Minister documents public


                                                107

expenditure issues relating to M&E, including tracking resourcesto report on the effectiveness o f
their utilization. The PRSC policy matrix has become an agenda for results-orientation and
reform, representing a rolling plan o f issues and specific actions to improve results-orientation
and M&E.
34. Reforms to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The implementation o f a comprehensive M&E
system will focus on the following activities: (a) formulation o f a strategy for an integrated
national M&E system; (b) preparation o f a common platform for local-level information
collection and data entry; (c) consolidation o f inspection into multidisciplinary teams; (d)
establishment o f a coordinated agenda for evaluations, reviews, and research, including
expenditure tracking and value-for-money studies; (e) use o f the 2003 national service delivery
survey findings on client satisfaction as a baseline for service delivery performance improvement;
and (f) piloting o f a facility-level "client scorecard", to be managed by Civil Society
Organizations.


Output I.6: Implications of gender inequality for growth and development addressed in policy
and budgets
35. Progress. Uganda has moved forcefully to address gender issues in the PEAP revision
process. A PEAP Gender Team was established in 2002 under the leadership o f MoFPED to take
the lead in coordinating and managing the integration o f gender, as one o f the key crosscutting
issues for the PEAP. MoFPED worked together with the Ministry o f Gender, Labor, and Social
Development (MGLSD) to commission a desk review on gender and poverty issues, which was
completed in M a y 2003. A technical workshop on Engendering the PEAP was held in March
2003, Concurrently, Government commissioned hrther gender-focused analytical work to
underpin the more systematic integration o f gender into the PEAP revision. This work included:
(a) a gender analysis o f the U N H S 2001/02 data set to obtain a clearer understanding o f some o f
the key gender dynamics o f poverty in the country; (b) a preliminary econometric analysis o f
gendedgrowth linkages in Uganda, to address the implications o f gender inequality for growth
prospects and potential in the country; (c) further analysis of population dynamics in Uganda, to
address the persistent highrate o f population growth; (d) a gender analysis o f the justice, law, and
order sector, undertaken by the Ministry o f Justice; and (e) a gender review o f most o f the sector
working papers that were prepared for the PEAP revision, to highlightopportunities and gaps for
integrating gender concerns. MGLSD has launched the revision o f the national gender policy.
Uganda also has an active network o f NGOs and parliamentarians engaged in gender-responsive
budget work at both central and district levels. InApril 2003, with World Bank financial support,
the Govemment organized training workshops for about 80 central and local-level budget
officials to strengthen the alignment between PEAP goals and the budget process, and, in so
doing, to improve the gender focus o f the budget priorities.

36. Reform strategy. The policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) revision o f
the National Gender Policy; (b) development and implementation o f gender and equity budget
guidelines for the 2005/06 cycle; and (c) addressing gender and growth linkages in Uganda.
MGLSD will revise, in collaboration with other stakeholders, the National Gender Policy to take
account o f new information and analysis on gender dimensions o f poverty and new insights on
the linkages between gender inequality and economic growth. To improve the gender-
responsiveness o f public budgets, MoFPED, supported by MGLSD and other stakeholders, will
develop gender and equity budgeting guidelines that will be incorporated into the Circular for the
preparation o f sectoral budget framework papers inthe 2005/06 budget cycle. Implementation of
these guidelines will initially focus on health, education, agricultural extension, and water and
sanitation, as these are sectors that have made the most progress inarticulating gender-responsive
strategies and programs. The guidelines will provide a step- by-step mechanism for integrating
gender into the budget process. MoFPED will develop and implement a further program of


                                               108

analytical work on linkages between gender inequality and economic growth in Uganda, with a
view to informing the country's growth and export diversification policies and programs. Key
areas o f focus for further analysis include fertility, gender gaps in education, employment, and
bargainingpower at the household level, as well as gender differences inthe division o f labor and
ineconomic incentives.

37. Reform Strategy to be supported by PRSC5 d 6: Reforms supported by PRSCS and PRSC6
will seek to integrate the findings o f these policy based analytics into individual sector plans and
integrate them into budget and project support. Specifically, PRSC 5 will support a focus on
progress made in: (i)  the process o f updatingthe National Gender Policy; (ii) implementation,
                                                                                 the
and impact, o f the gender and equity budget guidelines prepared for the 2005/06 budget cycle;
and (iii)implementing the gendedgrowth research program and developing a strategy for
addressing gender issues inthe country's growth and export diversification policies. PRSC 6 will
support the work o f integrating gender into sectoral Budget Framework Papers and the associated
sectoral budgets, will track implementation of the National Gender Policy, and will complete the
strategy for addressingthe gender dimensions o f growth inUganda.


Output I.7: Policy and budgets address the implications of rapid population growth/high infant
and maternal mortalityfor growth.
38. Progress: There i s growing recognition that previous economic and social policies have not
adequately addressed the issue o f rapid population growth and how it impacts the growth o f per
capita income and overall welfare improvement. The 2002 population census results showed that
between 1991 and 2002, Uganda's population grew at 3.4 percent a year-the               third highest
growth rate in the world, which i s likely to adversely impact welfare improvements. In addition,
since 1995, infant and maternal mortality rates have stagnated at around 88/1,000 and
500/100,000, raising concern over child health and mothers' safety during delivery. Government
commissioned a study to establish the impact of the high population growth rates on growth of
per capita income and welfare improvement: the draft results were discussed in a workshop in
March2004.

39. Reform strategy: The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: "Revised
National Population Policy i s adopted and enhanced population advocacy and awareness
campaigns led by the Population Secretariat and Ministry of Gender, Labor, and Social
Development with support from Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development."
The implications of population growth rates will be analyzed and addressed in policy and
budgets. The country's population policy will be reviewed by 2004. Actions that focus on
reduction o f population growth and reduction o f mortality have been identified under each pillar
and will be further elaborated in PRSCS and PRSC6. The Infant and Maternal Mortality Task
Force i s to be strengthened to monitor relevant activities in each sector and enhance coordination.
The Task Force will meet regularly. Under its guidance progress will be reviewed and lessons
learned used to inform specific activities to be undertaken supported by PRSCS and 6. In line
with the GOU decentralization policy, intervention in this area will focus on community level
actions, backed by secondary level interventions.
40. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The reform program to be supported by
PRSCs 5 and 6 will be based on the review and monitoring o f progress o f populatiodinfant and
maternal mortality outcomes and activities under the program. The specific activities to be
supported will be identified through the annual reviews and monitoring programs, such that the
ultimate objective o freducing infant and maternal mortality i s systematically achieved.




                                               109

PEAPPillar 2: PRSCreformprograminsupport of strengtheninggoodgovernanceand
security

41. Improving efficient resource utilization and increased integrity, transparency, and
accountability across the public sector i s necessary to improve service delivery and thus
contribute to poverty reduction. This entails dealing with the inefficiencies o f the public sector at
large, particularly the human resources management, financial management, and procurement
systems. It also means developing the institutions that will give confidence to the private sector
and public at large and having redress mechanisms inplace in case they are needed. To provide a
sense o f security and an environment inspiring confidence requires a partnership between
Government and civil society in a framework where the rule o f law i s honored and transparency
i s the norm. It i s on that basis that the PRSCs have been placing a high priority on the
crosscutting issues that are embedded in this pillar. It i s a recognition that unless these systemic
issues are addressed, gains in social sectors could be short-lived and overall improvement in
service delivery will not be possible.

Outcome 2:Improved capacity andperformance of thepublic service
42. Expected outputs over the next threeyears. The PRSC program will support several medium-
term outputs in support o f the PEAP objectives. Quantified benchmarks are shown inthe Policy
Results Matrix (Schedule 2). The PRSC particularly supports areas where the World Bank has a
comparative advantage and where Government needs assistance.

43. Delivery o f public services i s intensive in skills. Therefore, progress towards enabling
Government to close gaps in skills, especially inthe PEAP priority areas, i s an important outcome
o f the PRSC medium-term initiatives.To this end, the planned outcomes are:

         Output 2.1       Pay levels for Government professional and managerial staff and
                          consistent with controlled expansion inpublic administratiodservice;
         Output 2.2       Personnel management and payroll systems accurately reflect actual
                          government employment and staff costs;
         Output 2.3       Public sector reform program linkedto PEAP and sector plans.

Output 2.I: Pay levels for Government professional and managerial staff and consistent with
controlled expansion inpublic administrationhervice
44. Progress. Pay should be at levels necessary to enable Government to recruit, retain, and
motivate adequate numbers o f competent technical, professional, and managerial personnel. This
i s crucial to building the capacity o f the service, and ensuring its integrity and accountability in
service delivery. At the same time, bottlenecks and other weahesses in the human resources
management system must be addressed, so that there i s efficient and effective deployment o f
personnel. Pay for public servants in the higher grades (U5 and above) will be raised by at least
33 percent inreal terms, and employment inpublic service will be maintained at levels consistent
with achieving efficiency and effectiveness in personnel deployment and attaining the target
changes inpay and fiscal targets.

45. These measures to control the size o f public administration are crucial to ensuring optimal
use and efficiency o f the public wage bill expenditures, which may significantly impact on the
pace o f salary enhancement and other pay reform objectives. Inpursuit o f the policy action, two
relevant studies have just been completed: (a) a review o f growth and size o f public
administration; and (b) review o f cost efficiency and effectiveness in the deployment o f human
resources in social sectors.

46. A Government-commissioned "Skills Gap Study in Public Service" completed in August
2003, has documented the extent to which Government i s unable to recruit and retain adequate
numberso fpersonnel with the requiredtechnical, professional, andmanagerialskills. These skills


                                                110

gaps undermine the capacity and performance of the public sector to deliver the services crucial
to sustaining poverty reduction and economic growth.

47. In addition, the size o f public administration expenditures adversely affects overall budget
performance. Government i s now trying to resist any further budgetary allocations to public
administration. In the 2003/04 budget, public administration i s programmed to receive Ush 365
billion, almost at the same level as in the previous fiscal year, thus reducing its share o f the
national budget from 13.3 percent in 2002/03 to 11.8 percent. Government i s implementing
measures to streamline public administration. For instance, it has recently halved the number o f
resident district commissioners.

48. Reform strategy. The three policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) the
MoPS and the MoFPED effect salary adjustments for FY 2003/04 consistent with the pay reform
strategy and the medium-term expenditure framework; (b) MoPS assesses the prevalence o f non-
salary compensation and its implications for expenditure management and implementation o fpay
reform; and (c) MoPS and MoFPED will have completed a comprehensive draft policy paper on
issues, measures, and modalities for controlling the size o f public administration and ensuring
cost efficiency and effectiveness o f the establishment in social sectors and discussed this with
social sector ministries.
49. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The analytical work and policy initiative
undertaken supported by PRSC4 will provide the impetus for Government to update its pay
reform strategy for the medium term. The objective will be to consolidate the limited progress
made thus far inthe implementation o f the strategy and to accelerate progress by clarifying policy
targets and ensuring that necessary resources are committed. Intandem, government will pursue
policies and administrative measures that enhance affordability and achievement o f the pay
reform targets by decelerating growth in public employment and promoting cost efficiency and
effectiveness measures inthe use o f wage billresources.


Output 2.2: Personnel management and payroll systems accurately reflect actual government
employment and staff costs
50. Part o f the agenda o f achieving better control o f public service employment lies in having
management information systems that generate accurate information on the resources used in
managing the public service. One o f these systems i s the integrated payroll and personnel
management system (IPPS), which goes hand in hand with Govemment's integrated financial
management systems.

51. Progress. PRSCl and PRSC2 supported Government's strong focus on improving the
systems to remove bottlenecks and delays in recruiting frontline service delivery workers
(primary teachers and health workers), as planned under the PEAP sector development programs.
As a result o f these initiatives, the numbers o f frontline workers in support o f the universal
primary education and primary health care programs have rapidly risen. With support from
PRSC3, Government shifted the focus to sustaining the gains in recruitment and timely payments
to personnel, as well as enhancing the integrity o f the payroll with a view to minimizing leakages
in wage bill expenditure. To this end, payroll controls in the existing system have been
strengthened, and a preliminary design for installing an integrated payroll and personnel system
has been completed.

 52. Reform strategy. The two policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) MoPS
will have complete personnel files for four pilot sites as a preliminary step for implementing the
integrated payroll and personnel system; and (b) MoPS with the collaboration o f the Ministry o f
Health will review the situation o f the health workers' payroll and will prepare an action plan to
 address issues identified. An integrated payroll and human resources management system that i s


                                              111

linked to the financial management system will improve the quality o f human resources
information available to Government decision makers.
53. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: During this period, Government i s
committed to the full implementation and rollout o f the IPPS, inaddition to decentralizing human
resources management in the public service. This will result in a system that accurately reflects
costs associated with employment and will thus provide another mechanism for helping
Government achieve better control o f resource use inthe public service.


Output 2.3: Public sector reform program linked to PEAP and sector plans
54. Progress. The Public Service Reform Program i s the strategic framework for pursuit o f
public service outcomes in the PEAP. However, assessments by the PRSC team have confirmed
the need to revamp the public service reform strategy, which appears to have lost steam inrecent
years. Besides the push for development o f the strategy to include in the third PEAP and a
broader program to implement result-oriented management, priority results areas in this reform
program have been identified and followed up supported by PRSCs 1-3. These areas have
comprised: improvements inpayroll management, pay reform, and efficiency and effectiveness in
human resourcesmanagement.

55. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: the Ministry o f
Public Service will have initiated a participatory review, prioritization, and costing o f the new
phase o f the PSRP.
56. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: To sustain the gains made by the PEAP,
Government has to address in a more comprehensive manner the lack o f strong performance o f
the public service and to ensure a Government-wide commitment to addressing these issues. The
process o f building that ownership has started supported by PRSC4. However, it i s clear that this
process will need nurturingon a long-term basis. It i s also necessary that this broad ownership be
translated into the necessary resources to ensure the implementation o f the public service reform
program.
 Outcome3: Strengthenedfinancialmanagementpractices
57. Expected outputs over the next three years. The PRSC program will contribute towards the
PEAP objectives by achieving several medium-term outputs. Quantified benchmarks are shown
inthe Policy ResultsMatrix (Schedule 2). The PRSC focuses on areas where the World Bankhas
a comparative advantage and Government needs assistance. Over the course o f the three-year
PRSC program (PRSC4, PRSC5, and PRSC6), Uganda expects to achieve the following:

        Output 3.1       Legal and institutional framework updated and implementation
                         commences;
        Output 3.2        Integratedfinancial management system replaces current manual system
                          to ensure complete, accurate, and timely financial reporting;
        Output 3.3        Lower fiduciary risk and strengthenedpublic financial accountability
                          cycle incentral and local government; and
        Output 3.4        Strengthened external audit structures andpractices, and enhanced the
                         quality o f audit services rendered.

 Output 3.I:Legal and institutionalframework updated and implementation commences
 58. Progress. The legal and regulatory framework (1964) governing public finance and
 accountability has been updated with the new Public Finance and Accountability Act (PFAA)
2003 and new government financial regulations. Also, Government has established a Public
Expenditure Management Committee (PEMCOM) to steer public expenditure management
reforms. The timeliness and completeness o f financial reporting has improved.


                                                112

59. Reform strategy. The two policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) the
Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Economic Development (MoFPED) revises Treasury and
Accounting Instructions for the Public Finance and Accountability Act; and (b) the proposed new
organizational structure o f the Accountant General's Office i s approved by the Accountant
General and the management o f MoFPED. MoFPED i s implementing the new Public Finance and
Accountability Act. As well as updating the Treasury and Accounting Instructions, this task
includes reorganizing the Accountant General's office, including decentralization o f the Internal
Audit function; harmonizingthe Local Government Regulations on Finance and Accounting, and
on Internal Audit with the PFAA; strengthening the effectiveness o f PEMCOM as a forum for
coordination and monitoring; and implementing internal audit regulations.

60. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: Further implementation of the Public
Finance and Accountability Act will be carried out when the Cabinet approves the write-off o f
unreconciled items on the Consolidated Fund. Also, MoFPED will issue revised financial and
accounting and internal audit regulations inharmony with the new Act.


Output 3.2: The integratedfinancial management system (IFMS)replaces current manual system
to ensure complete, accurate, and timelyfinancial reporting
61. Progress. Government has approved the system design of the IFMS, contracted the suppliers,
and made preparations for its launch.

62. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: Six ministries
(MoFPED, Ministry o f Education and Sports, Ministry o f Health, Ministry o f Works, Housing,
and Communications, Ministry o f Water, Lands, and Environment, and Ministry o f Agriculture)
and four local authorities pilot the accounting module o f the new system. A group o f users will
work with the consultants in further developing and installing the software application.
Government has been sensitizing users and has begun training on the proposed application. Pilot
sites are operational and include six ministies and four local authorities. Supported by PRSC3,
only 40 percent o f disticts and urban authorities produced annual accounts for 2001/02 within the
statutory deadline o f four months. The Ministry o f Local Government i s taking measures to
improve compliance levels.
63. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: Inthe next financial year, the system i s to
be rolled out to all remaining ministriesand another six local authorities; supported by PRSC6, it
will be extended to other agencies within central government and selected local authorities.
Government needs to address some fiduciary risk issues, from an accounting and financial
reporting perspective, that relate to the sustainability, functionality, and extension o f the system:
(a) ensuring the availability o f a sustainable staff capacity and necessary maintenance budgets;
(b) progressively extending and deepening the functionality and utilization of the system; (c)
completion o f the rollout to ensure the system provides the necessary coverage for the whole o f
Government; and (d) securing the additional fundingnecessary to complete implementation.


Output 3.3: Lowerfiduciary risk and strengthenedpublicfinancial accountability cycle in central
and local government.
64. Progress. Progress includes: (a) the annual accounts o f central government have been
produced within the statutory period; (b) the backlog o f the preparation and audit o f local
government annual accounts has been cleared; (c) a framework for the new Chart of Accounts has
been introduced; and (d) the Accountant General's Office has reconciled the Uganda
Consolidated Fundaccount. However, the Accountant General failed to prepare interim financial
statements for central government for 2002/03, as a result of the additional work being done on
the new Public Finance and Accountability Act. These reports will again be prepared in future
and the Accountant General will establish a process to ensure timely follow-up o f variances.

                                               113

Government has stepped up its efforts to strengthen capacities and provide continued training in
public financial management. It has established a financial management team o f accounting
professionals appointed to support the reforms and recruited 36 accounting graduates to
strengthen the complement o f accounting staff. The number o f professionally qualified staff
employed in Government has increased from one professional accountant/auditor in 1999 to 52 as
of October 2003. Government is also stepping up efforts to clear the backlog o f Treasury
Memoranda.

65. Reform strategy: The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: MoFPED issues
revised Treasury Memorandum for 1997/98, showing that appropriate action has been taken.
Although the Treasury Memorandum for the year 1997/98 has been finalized, it has not been
issued. The 1998/99 Public Accounts Committee report i s also under discussion in Parliament
while the 1999/00 report i s expected to be presented shortly.

66. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: Government i s increasing its efforts with
the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee in a bid to clear the backlog o f its reports and
dependent Treasury Memoranda. MoFPED expects to issue Treasury Memoranda for 1998/99,
1999/00, and 2000/01 inthe next financial year. Inthe subsequent year it plans to issue Treasury
Memoranda for 2001/02 and 2002/03 and thereby eliminate the backlog. In addition, all
ministries will prepare financial statements for 2003/04 in accordance with new financial
regulations and Treasury and Accounting instructions. It i s envisaged that in the following year,
all local authorities will prepare financial statements for 2004/05 in accordance with new Local
Government Financial and Accounting Regulations. Supported by PRSC5, the larger line
ministries (e.g. Education, Health, Water) will also appoint audit committees in line with the
requirements o f the Public Finance and Accountability Act, while supported by PRSC6 other line
ministries will appoint audit committees. These committees will start taking action on internal
audit findings.


Output 3.4: Strengthened external audit structures and practices, and enhanced the quality of
audit services rendered
67. Progress. Measures that Government has successfully undertaken include (a) clearly defining
the internal audit function; (b) providing adequate information on public spending on frontline
basic services usingexpenditure tracking surveys; (c) providing the Auditor General access to the
accounts on classified expenditures; (d) submitting to the Constitutional Review Commission a
memorandum approved by Cabinet on enhancing the independence o f the Auditor General; and
(d) improving the effectiveness o f the Office o f the Auditor General, through recruitment of
technical advisors and capacity building initiatives. In addition, an Audit Bill (2002) was
prepared to regulate the operation o f the Office o fthe Auditor General.

68. Reform strategy. The two policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) OAG
starts planning for implementation o f the agreed approach for audit o f sub-county local
authorities on a sustainable basis with its own staff component; and (b) OAG continues to carry
out staff capacity buildingprograms, strengthen capacity to manage the contracting out o f audits,
and develop guides for audit techniques in planning, quality control, and value for money
auditing. Also, the new Classified Expenditure Regulations (July 2003) will be applied for the
 first time to classified expenditures incurred in the fiscal year ended 30 June 2004. Given the
capacity constraints, annual auditing o f the close to 900 sub-county governments i s not realistic,
The Auditor General's Office has prepared an audit strategy outlining the appropriate audit
approach to be implemented supported by PRSC4.
 69. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: One o f the prior actions envisaged for
PRSC5 i s that the 2002 Audit Bill will be revised to ensure adequate operational independence o f
the Auditor General. Supported by PRSC6 it i s envisaged that the Audit Bill will be enacted, The


                                               114

OAG will also begin implementing the agreed approach for audit o f sub-county local authorities
on a sustainable basis with its own staff component and subsequently prepare a consolidated
summary o f audit findings for local authorities. To enhance the quality o f audit work, the OAG
will start implementing the new audit guides and gradually move towards compliance with
international public sector auditing standards.



Outcome4: Strengthenedrule oflaw, transparencj detectionandsanctioningof corrupt
practices
70. Expected outputs over the next three years. The PRSC program will contribute towards the
PEAP objectives by achieving several medium-term outputs. Quantified benchmarks are shown
in the Policy Results Matrix (Schedule 2). The PRSC focuses on areas where the Bank has a
comparative advantage and Government needs assistance. Over the course o f the three-year
PRSC program (PRSC4, PRSCS, and PRSC6), Uganda expects to achieve the following:

         Output 4.1      Improved access to justice and increasedefficiency and effectiveness in
                         the administrationo fjustice, law, and order;
         Output 4.2      Strengthened detection o f corrupt practices;
         Output4.3       Greater effectiveness inpunishingcorrupt acts by key groups o f leaders;
         Output 4.4      Improved accountability and effectiveness o f public procurement.

Output 4.1: Improved access to justice and increased efJiciency and effectiveness in the
administration ofjustice, law, and order
71. Progress. Supported by PRSCl the justice, law, and order sector adopted a sectonvide
approach to criminal and commercial justice. A reform program was developed and its
implementation started with support from PRSC2 and PRSCS. This included the reduction o f
case backlog by 84 percent, commencing the deconcentration o f services through construction o f
upcountry courts, and staffing those facilities, with a target rate o f six new courts a year. The
sector has also made gains in monitoring and evaluating programs, with two reviews a year since
2002. The sector has completed and publishedbaseline surveys for both criminal and commercial
justice, and has developed output and outcome indicators and discussed them with the Poverty
Monitoring and Analysis Unit o f MoFPED. Owing to financial constraints, the mapping o f crime
statistics (1996-200 1) onto the poverty profile o f Uganda has not been undertaken. This mapping
would better enhance resource allocation and enable the integration o f indicators o f crime,
economic growth, and poverty. The justice, law, and order sector undertakings include an
important focus on gender and access to justice. The Domestic Relations Bill and the draft Sexual
Offenses Bill are key pieces o f legislation that seek to address substantive barriers to equitable
access to justice for women.

72. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support fiom PRSC4 is: Satisfactory
implementation o f undertakings agreed in the justice, law, and order sector review o f June 2003
and confirmed by the November 2003 review.
73. Reform Strategy to be supported by PRSCS h 6:           The sector review i s likely to have the
following priorities: (i)Access to justice especially for the vulnerable groups, including tracking
the status o f the Domestic Relations Bill and the Penal Code (Amendment) Bill; (ii)    The costs o f
administering justice and its impact on the poor; (iii)Limited geographical coverage by key
Justice, Law and order institutions; (iv) Civil society participation inthe administration o fjustice;
and (v) Weak regulation and enforcement o fjudgments.


Output 4.2: Strengthened detection of corrupt practices



                                               115

74. Progress. The Directorate o f Ethics and Integrity i s concentrating its efforts on tabling the
amendment to the Prevention of Corruption Act in Parliament. A comprehensive consultative
process i s underway to prepare other bills: whistleblower protection and QuiTam and access to
government information. Unfortunately, neither the Inspector General o f Government nor the
Directorate of Ethics and Integrity has much legal drafting capacity. Thus, despite a genuine
effort to advance the anti-corruption agenda, tangible results are slow to appear. Government i s
revising its strategy and plan o f action to fight corruption. It i s hoped that this will result in a
more concerted effort to curb corruption, as well as providing a framework for Government and
development partners to follow progress o f the various undertakings inthis area. The Directorate
of Ethics and Integrity i s developing a monitoring and evaluation framework that will extend
beyond the legislative framework to the implementation o f crosscutting reforms inpublic service,
public financial management, and procurement. The Office i s also monitoring the detection and
punishment o f corrupt practices.

75. Supported by PRSC1, Government revised parts o f the Official Secrets Act to help guide
processes towards improved rights to access to government information. Supported by PRSC2
and PRSC3, Govemment undertook stakeholder consultations on access to government
information. However, this has been a slow process, with responsibility for this activity shifting
from one agency to another. It appears that ownership i s now with the Ministry o f Public Service
and that the consultative process i s coming to a close. While a number o f initiatives are essential,
they are not sufficient and a law needs to be enacted to help broaden access to government
information.

76. Reform strategy. The two policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) The
Directorate o f Ethics and Integrity tables the amendment to the Prevention o f Corruption Act in
Parliament; and (b) the Ministryof Public Service tables the Principles o f Access to Government
Information to Cabinet. Government will also be reporting regularly, monitoring and controlling
the core functions that need to work well to curb corrupt practices. Finally, crosscutting reforms
that contribute to the fight against corruption should progress towards full fledged
implementation.

77. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: Overall the Government intends to have
inplace a National Anti-corruption and Action Plan that would provide the framework to assess
progress in the fight against corruption. The Plan will also provide the platform for development
partners to engage Government in this difficult area. Govemment also seeks to put in place the
legal and regulatory framework that will make it more difficult for corrupt practices to go
unpunished. Enacting the Whistleblower Protection and QuiTam law will provide the necessary
protection for citizens willing to assist Government in identifying corrupt practices. Moreover,
adoption o f the Access to Government Information principles will introduce greater transparency
inthe informationaccessible to citizens.


Output 4.3: Greater effectiveness in sanctioning corrupt acts by key groups of leaders.
78. Progress. Progress i s being made in implementing Uganda's Leadership Code, however the
recent constitutional ruling have created difficulties with regards to enforcement o f the Code.
Over the next year the Inspector General o f Government will complete the verification o f the
declarations o f assets o f key leaders, and appropriate action will be taken against offenders
against the Code.     This is a prior action for PRSCS.       Uganda's development partners are
 supporting the efforts with technical assistance and other means.         A particularly important
development this year was the publication by the country's main newspapers o f the declared
 assets o f cabinet members, ministers o f state, and presidential advisors. This has demonstrated
the Government's serious intentions and enabled the general public to gauge the veracity o f the
 declarations.


                                               116

79. About 30 complaints that have been lodged with the IGG are being investigated. At the 2001
Consultative Group Meeting, Government undertook to commence reporting regularly against
several core functions that must function well to curb corrupt practices. Steady progress is being
made, with the IGG living up to the actions supported by the PRSC, even though the process o f
verifying assets and investigating specific complaints i s cumbersome, owing in part to the poor
record keeping practices o f agencies fi-om which the IGG needs information. Development
partners are making substantial efforts to support the process. At present, however, IGG's powers
have been diminishedby the Constitutional ruling. The IGG still has the power to verify assets,
confiscate, investigate, and cause investigation, inrespect o f cases involving corruption, or abuse
o f authority or o f public office. The powers o f enforcement however, have been greatly
diminished with regards to the key categories o f leaders. A legal opinion by the Attomey General
has analyzed the implications and a plan has been submittedthat addresses effective enforcement
o f the objectives o f the Code until it i s redrafted and reinstitutedto its full effect, and also a plan
to redraft the code has been provided.

80. Reform strategy. The policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) The
Inspector General o f Government completes the analysis o f declared assets and information
collected from key categories o f leaders, initiates asset verification, investigates all complaints
from the public received by his office by November 1 2003, and presents a time-bound action
plan for the implementation o f the Leadership Code; and (b) select reports o f commissions o f
inquiry will be published within six months of completion, together with a Government white
paper on proposed actions. With respect to the Leadership Code, it i s expected that the IGG
would have completed the verification o f the declaration o f assets for key leaders and that it will
have taken appropriate action including investigatingthe 30 or so complaints that have been filed
with the IGG so far. Given the Constitutional ruling however, an additional policy action was
agreed: Government will provide an analysis o f the impact o f the constitutional challenges to the
Leadership Code by the Attomey General, and a satisfactory plan that addresses the short and
long term actions necessary for the effective implementation and enforcement o f the Leadership
Code, includingplan for the redrafting o f the code.

81. Since capacity constraints have been pointed out in all these areas including the limited
capacity to detect and punishcorrupt acts, Government towards a capacity buildinginitiative that
could support performance improvement of the public service to use public resources more
effectively and transparently and to provide quality service insupport o f the PEAP's objectives.

82. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The labor-intensive work initiated with
support from PRSC4 will continue. Government will complete the verification o f assets o f
ministers and take appropriate action against those not in compliance. It will also complete
investigations o f 50 percent o f public complaints and take the necessary actions to address them.
By the end o f this period it is expected that the capacity o f the IGG's office will have been
enhanced to the point where it can operate a "fast track analysis system", to complete the
verification o f declaration discrepancies, highlightedby the system.


Output 4.4: Improved accountability and effectiveness of public procurement
83. Progress. New procurement legislation became effective on February 21, 2003, and the
supporting regulations were published in the Uganda Gazette on September 5, 2003. The Public
Procurement Act, 2003 applies to all public procurement and disposal activities undertaken by
public institutions, including parastatal organizations and defense procurement.                The local
governments, unlike the central government ministries, still have to harmonize their procurement
practices with the provisions o f the new law.

84. Effectively, the institutional arrangements in the Procurement Act have been under
implementation since March 1, 2001. These arrangements include the creation o f a policy-


                                                  117

formulating    and regulatory body, the Public Procurement and Disposal o f Public Assets
Authority (PPDA); the creation o f contract committees to perform the operational functions o f the
defunct Central Tender Board; and creation o f procurement and disposal units to carry out the
day-to-day functions o f procuring entities. Ingeneral, all central government ministries now have
contract committees and procurement and disposal units to carry out procurement, and the
permanent secretaries (accounting officers) provide the first line o f appeal in case o f complaints.
Effectively public procurement has been decentralized to the procuring entities, leaving to PPDA
the functions of developing regulations, guidelines, standard bidding documents and carrying out
compliance checks and audits, publishingcontract awards, and pre-qualifying and approving the
use o f thirdparty procurement agents by procuring and disposal entities. The Authority provides
a second line o f appeal incase o f complaints.

85. Reform strategy. The main issue with the new Act i s its enforcement. The 2004 Country
Procurement Assessment Report has discussed how best to enforce the Act and make it more
transparent. Government has undertaken to revise the Local Government Regulations by July
2004. To demonstrate its commitment it has (as a prior action for PRSC4) draftedregulations and
submitted proposals to amend the Local Government Act, 2003 to Cabinet for approval. The prior
action completed with support from PRSC4 is: By May 2004, the Ministry o f Local Government
will have submitted to Cabinet the draft Local Government Procurement and Disposal o f Assets
Regulations, along with proposals to amend the Local Government Act, particularly on those
issues relating to the appointment and removal o f tender board members inlocal governments.

86. Regarding the capacity o f procurement units, the policy action completed with support from
PRSC4 is: the Public Procurement and Disposal o f Public Assets Authority implements the
capacity building strategy for central and local government. Except for the appeals mechanism,
the institutional framework necessary for achieving the reform objectives i s already inplace at the
central level. Lack o f procurement capacity i s the single most important issue in the sector. A
recent USAID-sponsored study has analyzed this issue at the local government level and has
made recommendations. The Country Procurement Assessment Report has reviewed these
recommendations and proposed an action plan to implement them. With decentralization and the
creation o f properly staffed procurement units in each procuring entity, there will be a surge o f
demand for procurement staff. The Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority
has recently prepared a capacity buildingand training strategy, and the CPAR has reviewed the
strategy and proposed an action plan to implement it.
87. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: Work will continue on the Local
Government bill, which will be tabled in Parliament next year. With support from PRSC6, the
revised act should have been passed by Parliament. There will also be follow up work to ensure
the recommendations of the CPAR are implemented. The capacity buildingstrategy will continue
to be implemented.


Outcome5:Improved civil societyparticipation
88. Expected outputs over the next three years. The PRSC program will contribute towards the
PEAP objectives by achieving several medium-term outputs. Quantified benchmarks are shown
in the Policy Results Matrix (Schedule 2). The PRSC focuses on areas where the Bank has a
comparative advantage and Government needs assistance. Over the course o f the three-year
PRSC program (PRSC4, PRSCS and PRSC6), Uganda expects to achieve the following:

         Output 5.1:      A better operational environment for Government andNGO
                          partnerships;
         Output 5.2:      Standard methodologiesfor civil society monitoring o f government
                          performance; and



                                               118

          Output 5.3:       A harmonized framework for community participation inservice
                            delivery.



89. Government acknowledges the contribution to development and growth made by civil
society, and recognizes that full involvement o f civil society in the improvement o f service
delivery and good governance i s both necessary and challenging. Government also recognizes
that it i s essential to the concept o f civil society that its operating environment be favorable, and
the roles and responsibilities determined therein are promoted. Thus far Government enjoys
productive partnerships with civil society in the preparation, revision, implementation, and
monitoring o f the PEAPIPRSP. The draft o f the third PEAP outlines five general roles that civil
society organizations play: (a) advocacy, particularly for the interest groups who might otherwise
be neglected; (b) voluntarily financed service delivery in sectors not adequately covered by
government programs; (c) publicly financed service delivery, subcontracted by government; (d)
support to conflict resolution; and (e) monitoring and evaluation.


Output 5.1:A better operational environmentfor Government and NGOpartnerships
90. Progress. Though Government has increasingly acknowledged the contributions made by
civil society in service delivery, monitoring, and policy dialogue, the legal and regulatory
framework for these activities needs strengthening. The NGOs Amendment Bill i s now before
Parliament. Supported by PRSC1, Government created a computerized NGOs database in the
NGOs Registration Board, at the Ministry o f Internal Affairs, but lack o f staffing and funds
caused underutilization for both registration and monitoring. Supported by PRSC2, an NGO
study was undertaken to obtain a better understanding o f the roles and capacities o f NGOs
together with the challenges NGOs face at various levels o f government. The results o f the study
have been used to inform the amendments to the NGOs Amendment Bill and will also form the
basis for the formulation o f the NGOspolicy.

91. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: the Ministry o f
Internal Affairs and the Office o f the Prime Minister, in consultation with other ministries and
NGOs,initiate the development o f anNGOpolicy.

92. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The Ministry o f Internal Affairs and the
Office o f the Prime Minister, together with other ministries and NGOs, will agree on an NGO
policy that provides a favorable environment for NGO operations, submit the policy to Cabinet
for approval, and identify sources o f fundingfor its implementation.


 Output 5.2: A harmonizedframework for community participation in service delivery
93. Progress. Government recognizes the need to improve local authority and sector plans to
adequately reflect communities' perspectives and priorities. In addition, various agencies apply
participatory approaches in an uncoordinated fashion. Under the leadership o f Ministry o f Local
Government, a Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide (HPPG) for lower local councils was
prepared jointly with NGOs supported by PRSC2, and piloted in a few districts. Supported by
PRSC3, Government started the initial application o f the HPPG, albeit with some delays.

94. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: the Ministry of
Local Government and local government authorities will monitor the performance o f HPPG.

95. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The Ministry o f Local Government and
local government authorities review the implementation o f the HPPG, and then complete its
rollout to all districts.



                                                  119

Output 5.3: Standard methodologiesfor civil society monitoring of governmentperformance
96. Progress. Government increasingly achowledges the role o f NGOs in monitoring public
expenditure. Civil society groups that include NGOs are expected to provide reports on public
expenditure, value for money, and poverty dynamics among specific socio-economic groups.
However, there are no agreed tools for use by civil society inmonitoring government services at
the lowest levels. There i s a need to help civil society groups agree on methodologies with which
to generate comparable and representative information for decision making.

97. Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: the Office o f the
Prime Minister and the Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development facilitate
discussions with civil society         organizations   regarding monitoring and dissemination
methodologies for effective linkage with policy processes.

98. Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: With support from PRSCs 5 and 6
respectively, the Office o f the Prime Minister and the Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and
Economic Development establish mechanisms for obtaining feedback from civil society on public
services, and evaluate government actions based on information provided by civil society.



PEAPPillar 3: PRSC reformprograminsupport ofincreasingthe ability of the poor to
raise their incomes

99. In the third pillar o f the PEAP, the Govemment seeks to increase the ability o f the poor to
raise their incomes, through interventions that increase the access o f the poor to assets (including
land, natural resources, finances, and infrastructure) and increase the returns to these assets
(through improved marketing, agricultural advisory and research services, and education). As
about 95 percent o f the poor live in rural areas and about 85 percent o f the rural poor earn their
living from agriculture, the Plan for Modernization o f Agriculture (PMA) is a key programunder
this pillar. The Plan identifies seven priority areas for public action: research and technology
development, agricultural advisory services, rural finance, agro-processing and marketing,
agricultural education, sustainable natural resource use, and supportive physical infrastructure.
The PRSC program supports the operationalization o f the P M A and broader natural resource
management.

100.     The PRSC program will contribute towards the PEAP objectives by achieving several
medium-term outputs. Quantified benchmarks are shown in the Policy Results Matrix (Schedule
2). The PRSC focuses on areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage and Government
needs assistance.

Outcome6:Improved environmentalsustainabiIity
101,     Expected outputs over the next threeyears. The desired outcome o f the support program
i s to increase coordination and integration o f environmental sustainability in Govemment
programs, with oversight from a sustainable authority for environmental management. This will
help to reduce the level and risk o f environmental degradation-a      goal that i s key for sustained
growth. Over the course o f the three-year PRSC program (PRSC4, PRSC5, and PRSCG), Uganda
expects to achieve the following:

         Output6.1        Establishment of a sustainable and integrated approach to environmental
                          management;
         Output6.2        Established and functioning agencies for forest resource management.

Output 6.1: Establishment of        a sustainable and integrated approach to environmental
management

                                                120

102.     Progress. The Environment and Natural Resource Sector Working Group have reached
consensus on how to move towards the development and eventual implementation o f a
sectonvide investment plan for the environment and natural resource sector. Progress was
significantly advanced during the PEAP revision process with the participation and presentation
o f the Working Group and its stakeholder involvement. In the PEAP/PRSP, forest degradation
has been identified as an environmental and economic concern, and strengthening forest
management i s needed.

103,     Government created the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) in 1995
to serve as the regulatory agency charged with enforcement, oversight, and coordination o f all
environmental issues. NEMA has developed into a strong, independent, regulatory agency with
strong public support. To date, its full costs have been financed through an IDA project. NEMA
now coordinates capacity building for better environmental management in lead agencies and
institutions, with some positive results. Government has agreed on the hnding required for
NEMA. Environmental impact assessment guidelines have been developed and implemented in
the road sector; draft guidelines for water supply and sanitation; energy; and mining are being
prepared, and work on guidelines for agriculture; forestry; and wildlife management i s ongoing.
New local government planning manuals promoting environmentally sustainable planning have
been prepared. Guidelines for environmental screening o f sector plans and programs have been
developed for the PEAP revision and the budget process. Several districts have developed district
environmental action plans and are integrating them into their district development plans. Inthe
health sector, a government taskforce on infant and maternal mortality has used a cross-sectoral
approach to solving these problems, including environmental risk issues.

104.     Reform strategy. The policy actions to be completed with support from PRSC4 were: (a)
the Environment and Natural Resource Sector Working Group has clarified the composition and
vision o f the sector and the way forward for the preparation o f a draft sector investment plan; and
(b) at least 25 percent of NEMA'Soperating costs are covered by the medium-term expenditure
framework. Government has agreed to provide the operating budget for the National Environment
Management Authority, within the medium-term expenditure framework, on an increasing scale
over the next three years to ensure that when the project closes the agency will be fully funded
under the Government budget. To date, the allocation o f the required operational funds for
NEMAhas not beenincludedinthe medium-term budget framework.

105.     Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The policy actions to be supported by
PRSCs 5 and 6 are: (a) to further develop, finalize, and begin implementing the sectorwide
investment plan. The preparation o f the investment will require broad participation and
consensus. (b) Integrating the National Environment Management Authority's financing into the
medium-term budget framework to ensure its sustainability. NEMA i s expected to be fully on
budget by 2006.

Output 6.2: Established andfunctioning agenciesfor forest resource management
106.     Progress. Twenty-four percent o f Uganda's land area i s covered by forest, and the
country's forest and tree resources provide energy for about 90 percent o f the population,
particularly for the poor. Forest management issues are being given more attention and the reform
o f the forestry sector i s underway with the passage o f the National Forestry and Tree Planting Act
inMay2003.The new Act facilitates the institutional arrangements for the full implementationof
the National Forestry Plan. This requires the establishment and effective launch o f the National
Forest Authority, capacity buildingfor the Forestry Inspection Division, and the establishment o f
district forestry services. The National Forest Authority was launched in April 2004; its Board
has been appointed with recruitment o f the Executive Director and other senior staff.

107.     Reform strategy. The policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: the
Ministry of Water, Lands, and Environment has ensured the implementation of the National

                                                121

Forestry Plan through the effective launch and monitoring o f the National Forest Authority and
through adequate capacity buildinginthe Forestry InspectionDivision. The development partners
in the sector have established a start-up fund to support the early capital expenditure and
operational costs o f the National Forest Authority. Grants are also being provided to the Forestry
Inspection Division for National Forestry Plan implementation and capacity building.

108,    Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The actions to be supported by
PRSCs 5 and 6 are to ensure implementation o f the National Forestry Plan through the
appointment o f district forestry offices, preparation and adoption o f district forest development
plans, and buildingthe capacity o f the Forestry InspectionDivision.


Outcome 7:Improved enabling environmentfor transitionfrom subsistenceto commercial
agriculture

109.    Expected outputs over the next three years. Consistent with the operationalization o f the
Plan for Modernization o f Agriculture (PMA) are a more responsive and effective publicly
supported agricultural research system with higher quality and greater access to agricultural
advisory services; increased access to and availability o f sustainable rural financial services; an
increased network o f district roads; improved quality of commercial farm produce; improved
customary tenure arrangements and management o f common property resources; more equitable
and secure access to and control o f land by women (and other vulnerable groups); and
strengthened land markets and investor confidence.

110.    Over the course o f the three-year PRSC program (PRSC4, PRSC5, and PRSC6), Uganda
expects to achieve the following:

        Output 7.1        Strengthened coordinationo f PMA implementation;
        Output 7.2        Increased access to and relevance o f agricultural advisory services;
        Output 7.3        Strengthened microfinance and rural financial markets;
        Output7.4         Reduced agro-processing and marketing constraints;
        Output7.5         Strengthenedtenure security, particularly greater access to and control
                          over landby women;
        Output 7.6        Improved food security and nutrition;

Output 7.I:Strengthened coordination of Planfor Modernization of Agriculture implementation
111.    Progress. Implementation o f the PMA i s multisectoral, requiring interventions across
many ministries (Ministry o f Agriculture, Animal Industry, and Fisheries; Ministry o f Water,
Lands, and Environment; Ministry o f Tourism, Trade, and Industry; Ministry o f Works, Housing,
and Communications; Ministry o f Gender, Labor, and Social Development; Ministry o f Finance,
Planning, and Economic Development; and Ministry of Education and Sports). The
implementation challenge i s to ensure that relevant activities across these ministries are consistent
with PMA objectives and that these are adequately prioritized within the respective ministry
budgets.

112.    InJanuary 2004, a review was undertaken of the alignment to the PMA of the 2004/05
sector budget framework papers o f the involved ministries. The review assessed the extent to
which the ministries had integrated P M A priority undertakings agreed during the 2003 Joint PMA
Review (those undertakings approved by the PMA steering committee) into their work. It found
that most ministries had not (or had only partially) integrated these undertakings into their
sectoral budgets for 2004/05. The review report was submitted by the PMA Steering Committee
to the Ministryo f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development, recommending that during the
inter-ministerial consultations, the key PMA ministries should be urged to revise their budget
framework papers and ensure that the agreed activities are adequately incorporated.

                                               122

113.     Reform strategy. The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: Increased
alignment o f budget allocations o f the involved ministries with PMA review undertakings.
Following the release o f the review, more o f the P M A undertakings have been reflected in the
budgets o f the relevant ministries.

114.     Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The same policy action i s included in
PRSCs 5 and 6 to ensure continue and increased alignment o f relevant ministrybudgets to P M A
priorities.


Output 7.2: Increased access to and relevance of agricultural research and advisory services
115.     Progress. Access to and effectiveness o f agricultural advisory services have been limited
in the past. Surveys show that in 2000 only 26 percent of farmers had access to extension, and
that among them only 24 percent were satisfied with the service they received. Recent analysis
shows that agricultural extension can have a significant impact on rural productivity and incomes,
both directly and through increasing the responsiveness o fresearch.

116.     In response, Government has been implementing its recently introduced National
Agricultural Advisory Service (NAADS) program. Implementation has progressed, but delays in
flows o f funds, the slow pace of de-layering district extension staff, and the mismatch between
the rollout targets and budget allocation have hampered progress. NAADS i s now operating in
153 sub-counties in 21 districts. The flow o f funds to districts has improved since the end o f
2003. The new structure for district agricultural production departments where N A A D S i s
operating has been integrated into the overall local government restructuringproposal, which has
been submittedto the Cabinet for approval.

117.     Current institutional arrangements for agricultural researchhave a number o f weaknesses
which ifcorrected can improve its responsiveness and impact. While there have been some useful
products of the research system (e.g. mosaic-resistant cassava), supply-side biases to research
prioritization with little participation by farmers, limited contestability within the system-with
the almost exclusive channeling o f public sector support through the National Agricultural
Research Organization, and the limited integration and involvement o f other organizations
(university, private sector, NG0s)-have          all acted to limit research responsiveness and
effectiveness. Cabinet has approved a draft National Agricultural Research System Bill. The Bill
calls for a more demand-driven research system supporting, mostly on a competitive basis, a
broader range o f research providers than before, while continuing to provide basic agricultural
research funding through the National Agricultural Research Organization. The Bill lays out the
new institutional arrangements for the System, some of which are already being implemented.

118.     Reform strategy. The policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a) MOPS
and MLG have submitted the local government restructuring plan for Cabinet approval,
Following the Cabinet approval, Government can begin implementation o f the restructuringplans
to align district staff to the N A A D S program; and (b) The Ministry o f Agriculture has tabled the
National Agricultural Research Bill inParliament.

119.     Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The actions to be supported by
PRSCs 5 and 6 are: (a) the de-layering of extension staff inten NAADs districts to allow them to
become private service providers and ensure the overall system becomes more cost-effective; and
(b) the enactment o f the Agricultural Research Bill and the operationalization o f the competitive
research grant scheme, which i s a core element o f the new research strategy. The competitive
grant scheme will allow greater pluralism and accountability inresearch service provision.


Output 7.3: Strengthened microfinance and ruralfinancial markets



                                                123

120.     Progress. Sustainable access to financial services i s an important part o f the enabling
environment for rural households to improve their livelihoods. However, past Government-
directed credit programs have tended to undermine microfinance and sustainable rural financial
market development. While the number o f savings and credit cooperatives has been expanding
rapidly, performance has been poor and microfinance institutions, especially in rural areas, have
limitedoperatingcapacity.

121.     The Microfinance Deposit-taking Institutions Bill was passed by Parliament on
November 20, 2002. The Bank o f Uganda has discussed draft regulations to accompany the Act
and it i s anticipated that four or five o f the largest microfinance institutions (MFIs) will be
licensed under the Act within the next three years. The Bank o f Uganda has been moving steadily
to build capacity to supervise these institutions. For those MFIs not covered by the Act, the
Association o f Microfinance Institutions of Uganda and the Microfinance Outreach Plan
Coordination Unit in the Ministry o f Finance, Planning, and Economic Development are
undertakingto collect and monitor relevant data.

122.     Savings and credit cooperatives have an important role to play in mobilizing and
intermediating savings at the local level, especially in rural areas that are costly for commercial
banks and even microfinance institutions to reach. While some o f these cooperatives have
improved their financial management and performance with assistance from capacity-building
projects, many others are reported to have problems with governance and repayment
performance. At present, savings and credit cooperatives are considered simply as cooperatives
and are not subject to any financial regulation.16 Revisions to the Cooperative Act are intended to
recognize their financial role and responsibilities, as the first step toward addressing the longer-
term need to establish mechanisms for their monitoring, regulation, and supervision. The
Cooperatives (Amendment) Bill, 2002, drafted by the Ministry o f Tourism, Trade, and Industry
(MoTTI), streamlines the provisions o f the existing law and explicitly recognizes the financial
intermediation aspects o f savings and credit cooperatives. The Ministry has experienced an
upsurge in registration o f savings and credit cooperatives following promotional efforts by the
Government, but it lacks the capacity to effectively supervise them; nor i s it necessarily the
appropriate agency to do so.

123.     Reform strategy. Two policy actions are completed with support from PRSC4: (a) The
Bank o f Uganda, in consultation with stakeholders, adopts regulations for implementation o f the
Microfinance Deposit-taking Institutions Act; and (b) M o T T I drafts revisions to the Cooperative
Act that strengthen the framework for savings and credit cooperatives in line with international
standards. At the policy level, a sound legal and regulatory environment has been identified as a
priority for support through the PRSC process. Addressing these policy and capacity constraints
can assist in stimulating more sustainable microfinance institutions. Developing the legal and
regulatory framework governing microfinance, and improving the operating capacity o f
microfinance institutions, i s key. Following the approval o f the Microfinance Deposit-takmg
Institutions Act, the regulations are to be finalized and adopted by the Bank o f Uganda. At
present, SACCOs are considered simply as Cooperatives and are not subject to any financial
regulation. The revisions to the Cooperative Act are intended to recognize their financial role and
responsibilities. It will be the first step toward addressing the longer-term need to establish
mechanisms for better monitoring, regulation and supervision o f SACCOs.

124.     Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The Bank o f Uganda i s expected to
begin onsite inspections o f all new licensed microfinance deposit-taking institutions (for those
MFIs that have been licensedby the end o f 2004). The consultative process that the Ministry of
Finance, Planning, and Economic Development has launched with respect to the regulation o f


l6 The apex bodies are able effectively to monitor only some 70 cooperatives that are involved indonor-
assisted programs.

                                                  124

Tier IV microfinance institutions (including savings and credit cooperatives) i s expected to enable
that ministry,together with the Ministry o f Tourism, Trade, and Industry,to develop a framework
for regulating and supervising these cooperatives in consultation with the Bank o f Uganda and
other stakeholders. With support from PRSC6, MoTTI, the Bank o f Uganda, and other
supervisory bodies will begin to implement regulation and supervision o f microfinance
institutions and savings and credit cooperatives.


Output 7.4: Reduced agro-processing and marketing constraints
125.     Progress. The Ministry o f Works, Housing, and Communications has prepared the ten-
year District and Urban Roads Investment Program, in collaboration with the Ministry o f Local
Govemment. The Program allows the districts to develop their strategies and investment
programs within the comprehensive framework; it provides a logical and analytical basis for
multi-annual investment and monitoring. Detailed engineering design and preparation o f tender
documents is ongoing for the first 700 kmo f roads.

126.     Hightransaction costs create disincentives for commercial agriculture and for non-farm
rural enterprises. While there has been a significant increase in maintenance expenditures-
tripling since the late 1990s-road      construction and maintenance have not been prioritized to
ensure the greatest rural income growth impact. In addition to rural roads, agro-processing and
marketing constraints continue to inhibit domestic sales and exports o f agricultural production,
thereby inhibiting income growth. Current institutional arrangements for Govemment export
crops are inadequate to deal effectively with changes in regional and global markets and the
increasingly complex supply chains for some crops.

127.     A functional review o f the Uganda Coffee Development Authority (UCDA) was
undertaken in an effort to ensure its interventions assist coffee exports ina changing intemational
market. Further work i s expected on developing a legal framework for appellation and branding,
which i s deemed necessary to enable the coffee export cluster to compete in intemational
markets. Coordination arrangements for the Medium-term Competitiveness Strategy and Strategic
Exports Program have been streamlined to strengthen the links between the two programs. In
addition, in an effort to improve Uganda's access to financing and markets, Cabinet has in
principle approved a Warehouse Receipts System Bill. The policy, legal, and regulatory
environment for fish and maize has been reviewed.

 128.    Reform strategy. The four policy actions completed with support from PRSC4 are: (a)
M o W H C has drafted a ten-year District Road Investment Program for submission to Cabinet. The
ten-year District Road Investment Program prioritizes road maintenance and rehabilitation based
on criteria including population, poverty, and agricultural potential; and commences its
implementation. The key challenge i s implementation at district level, which will require follow
up by central government. (b) The Ministry o f Agriculture, Animal Industry, and Fisheries and
UCDA have conducted broader consultations on the UCDA review report and have agreed with
the P M A Steering Committee on reforms. (c) The PMA Steering Committee has reviewed
recommendations on the policy, legal, and institutional environment for fish and maize
production; and (d) M o T T Ihas drafted a Warehouse Receipts Bill for tabling inParliament.

 129.    Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The actions to be supported by
PRSCs 5 and 6 are: (a) commencement o f implementation o f the district road investment program
inline with the ten-year district investment program; (b) implementation o f the coffee sector
reform program; and (c) implementation o f the agreed action plan for the maize and fish
subsectors, with identification o f further subsector reviews.


 Output 7.5: Strengthened tenure security, particularly greater access to and control over land by
women

                                                125

130.    Progress. Implementationo f the Land Sector Strategic Plan (LSSP) has been constrained
by lack of physical and humancapacity compoundedbypoor sequencingo f activities. Progress is
also hampered by the poor state o f the land registry records, which provide the only
documentation o f land ownership in Uganda. Incomplete, corrupted, and disorganized land
records are not likely to assure the confidence o f potential investors in Uganda, or further the
Government's efforts to improve transparency and reduce corruption in land administration
services. An implementation unit for the Land Sector Strategic Plan i s now in place in the
Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment. A land information systemhas been designed, and
rehabilitation o f the land registry records has started: procurement o f computers and training o f
four staff in records management has been completed; data entry has started; and sorting o f land
records for the Kampala, Wakiso, and Mpigi offices i s progressing.

131.     Out o f the three districts targeted for the piloting o f systematic land adjudication and
demarcation, field work involving sensitization, systematic land adjudication, and demarcation
was completed in only one (Ntungamo district, Rukarango parish) in January 2004; evaluation o f
the procedures and costs i s ongoing and due for completion in April 2004. For the second district
(Masaka), sensitization and boundary demarcation started in February 2004 and are still
continuing; together with adjudication, they are expected to be completed by July 2004. Owing
to persistent insecurity, piloting in the third district-in  the Northern region, where communal
land tenure prevails-has     had to be suspended. A pilot scheme for strengthening the management
of common property resources, through systematic adjudication, demarcation, and registration o f
community land associations, was initiated in Masindi district in September 2003, but
implementation has lagged owing to delays in completing the enabling regulations; it i s now
envisaged that the first community land association will be registered in Budongo sub-county by
April 2005. The land tribunals are operational. Although a coherent system o f tracking
performance has not been established, available statistics indicate that 2,662 land disputes were
registered countrywide by mid-2003. To date, some 14 percent o f the cases have been fully
disposed.

132.     Some information campaigns to raise awareness o f women's land rights among key
stakeholders have been undertaken through radio spots, talk shows, and other media. However,
progress has been very limited, in part because o f a lack o f focus and because o f capacity
constraints. The absence o f a definitive baseline has made it difficult to assess the impact of these
campaigns.

133.    Reform strategy. There are three policy actions completed with support from PRSC4: (a)
The Ministry o f Water, Lands and Environment has initiated rehabilitation o f land registry
records and has designed a land information system. The Land Sector Strategic Plan provides a
guiding framework for an integrated action plan in the land sector, encompassing all levels o f
government institutions and services, and enables rational prioritization o f actions and resources.
Rehabilitation o f the land registry together with the development o f a functional land information
system are essential for the smooth operation o f formal land markets and for strengthening
investor confidence, and can be an important source o f public revenue. Following completion o f
the design o f the land information system, Government will initiate its piloting and expand
rehabilitation o f the land registry records. (b) The Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment has
conducted pilots o f land adjudication, demarcation, and certification in locations representing
different access to land use systems. Further piloting and evaluation o f systematic demarcation
and adjudication will be completed and procedures will be established for cost-effective
replication programs including the establishment and registration o f community land associations
for the management o f forestry and pastoral lands. (c) The Ministry o f Water, Lands and
Environment has initiated development o f an evaluation tool for the Land Sector Strategic Plan to
provide baseline assessment o f women's land rights, including awareness levels. Baseline
assessments will be completed; methods will be developed and tested for tracking the provisions


                                                 126

o f the Land Act concerning family security o f occupancy; and further campaigns will be
conducted to raise awareness of women's landrights among key stakeholders.

134.     Reform Strategy to be supported by PRSC.5 h 6: Government's actions to be supported
by PRSCS and 6 are: (i)the rehabilitation o f the land registry records together with the
implementation o f the LIS;      (ii)basedon the demarcation and certification of land pilot
evaluations, develop procedures for cost effective scaling up o f the program with commencement
o f scaling up activities; and (iii)
                                  tracking the implementation o f the provisions o f the Land Act
concerning family security o f occupancy.


Output 7.6:Improvedfood security and nutrition
135.     Progress: In July 2003, Cabinet approved a Food and Nutrition Policy, whose overall
goal i s to ensure food security and adequate nutrition for all people in the country. Uganda
continues to face problems o f malnutrition, especially among children (as noted earlier, some 40
percent o f deaths among children in Uganda are attributed to malnutrition). Implementation will
require multisectoral and coordinated interventions that focus on food security, improved
nutrition, and increased income. Following the approval o f the policy, a Strategy and Investment
Plan has been prepared as a first step towards implementation o f the policy. The strategy was
discussed at a national consultation meeting, with further independent review from which
comments were incorporated.

136.     Reform strategy: The policy action completed with support from PRSC4 is: the Steering
Committee for the Program for the Modernization o f Agriculture has finalized the Food and
Nutrition Strategy and Investment Plan. Following the completion o f the strategy, the draft Food
and Nutrition Bill will be finalized for submission to Parliament. The actions to be supported by
PRSCs 5 and 6 are the enactment o f the Food and NutritionAct with subsequent implementation.




PEAPPillar4: PRSCreformprograminsupport of improvingthe quality of life ofthe
poor
137.     At the core o f PEAP pillar four are the three service delivery sectors; education, health;
and water and sanitation. There are comprehensive sector-review processes in place in each o f
these sectors. The reviews are led by government, with participation from civil society, the Bank
and other development partners. These reviews establish annual undertakings that Government i s
committed to achieve in order to reach PEAP and sector objectives. This also means that the
results-orientation i s a process entirely driven within the sector. Thus, the presentation o f the
sector reforms within this annex differs somewhat from the other areas o f the PEAP reform.


 Outcome8: Universal Primary Education Achieved
 138.    Expected outputs over the next three years. Government-led semiannual education sector
reviews (ESRs) continue to involve all major stakeholders (Government, development partners,
civil society) to monitor progress, set targets, and maintain a focus on the quality of education.
ESRs have agreed on a set o f monitoring indicators, quantitative targets, and key actions for
education. These are fully consistent with the PEAP. Over the course o f the PRSC program
period, Uganda expects to achieve the following outputs:

 +   A decline inthe pupil-teacher ratio from 63:1to 50:1;
 +   A decline inthe pupil-textbookratio from 6.7: 1to 3:1;
 +   A decline inthe pupil-classroomratio from 121:l to 88:l;



                                               127

  *   An increase inthe primary completion rate, measuredby an increase innet enrollment inthe
          final grade o f primary school (grade 7) disaggregatedby gender;
  *   Net enrollment o f the poorest and richest quintiles reaches 100 percent by 2015;
  *   Gender balance i s maintained inprimary school;
  *   Gender balance i s attained in secondary school by 2005; and
  *   An increase in the number o f primary pupils who attain determined competency levels in
          numeracy and literacy.

 139.    Progress; As a result of the Universal Primary Education (UPE) policy launched in 1997,
primary school net and gross enrollment rates have been steadily increasing. While wealth and
gender biases have been eliminated in primary education, national averages mask regional
inequalities in enrollment. Although survival rates for the post-UPE cohort have improved,
dropout rates are still high. This threatens achievement o f the Millennium Development Goals.
The quality o f education providedalso remains a major concern.

 140.    The second Participatory Poverty Assessment o f 2002 (PPA 2002) links UPE quality
concerns to frequent absenteeism, late attendance, and dropping-out by pupils. Government is
attempting to improve educational quality through increasing the number o f teachers, availability
o f textbooks, and classrooms. However, enrollment i s increasing much faster than anticipated and
the supply o f inputs is not sufficient to meet earlier targets. Given the constrained resource
envelope, actively pursuing efficiency measures in both primary and post-primary education
remains key to progress and Government i s undertaking a study to analyze which measures are
most promising.

 141.     Govemment i s also determined to support post-primary and tertiary education in order to
 achieve sector development that will sustain UPE gains. While implementation o f the post-
primary education strategy has commenced, development o f the tertiary subsector will involve
 some difficult reforms that will require wide stakeholder endorsement ifthey are to succeed.

 142.     The quality o f primary education, though still a major concern, has also slowly improved
.through the increase in teachers, textbooks, and classrooms. Changes in textbook procurement
have allowed Government to reach 3 : l pupil-textbook ratios in primary grade 3 and primary
 grade 4 in 2002/03, and to purchase and distribute a wide range o f non-textbook materials to all
primary grades 1 and 2 classes. The procurement o f textbooks for primary grades 5 - 7 i s almost
 completed, with books already delivered and awaiting consolidation.

 143.     Teacher recruitment efforts have increased the number o f teachers according to the plan,
 but since enrollment has increased faster than expected, the pupil-teacher ratio has worsened from
 54: 1 in 2002/03 to 56:1 by 2003/04. For the same reason, the pupil-classroom ratio stagnated at
 the 2002/03 level o f 94:1. There were, however, notable improvements in the pupil-classroom
 ratios within ten targeted districts, inwhich classrooms were inshort supply.

 144.     A specific unit to coordinate activities o f provision, management, and utilization o f
 instructional materials in the primary and post-primary subsectors has been created in the
 Ministry of Education and Sports. Another unit to coordinate all activities for provision,
 management, and construction o f classrooms in primary, post-primary, and tertiary institutions
 other than universities has also been established within that ministry.

 145.     The National Examinations Board has put in place a system for National Assessment o f
 Progress in Education (NAPE) to measure leaming. NAPE studies conducted for English and
 mathematics in 1996 and 1999 (the first UPE cohort), and for social studies and science in 1997
 and 2000, showed a declining share o f pupils attaining satisfactory grades. Results o f a follow-up
 NAPE study administered in August 2003 are available in April 2004. A draft framework for
 enhanced and more systematic monitoring o f quality o f education and leaming was discussed at
 the November 2003 Education Sector Review. Finalization o f this framework awaits


                                                128

harmonization with the ongoing curriculum review process. The ESR also agreed to monitor the
percentage o f pupilsreaching defined levels o f competency inliteracy and numeracy.

146.     Reform strategy. The key reform areas to improve access and quality o f education are the
following:

(a) Reduce pupil-teacher ratio. Supported by PRSC3, a teacher tracking study indicated that
further work was needed to streamline hiringprocesses at the district level and record keeping at
the district level, and that discrepancies still exist between the teachers' payroll at the Ministry o f
Public Services and Uganda Computer Services. These issues have been followed up supported
by PRSC4. Government has also set up mechanisms to monitor the share of filled positions and
step up efforts to increase the number o f teachers on payroll in the ten districts with the largest
number o f unfilled positions.

(b) Reduce pupil-textbook ratio. Supported by PRSC3, new targets for the pupil-textbook ratio
were set at 3 : l by April 2003 and April 2004 respectively for primary grades 3 4 and 5-7
respectively. Supported by PRSC4, textbooks for primary grades 3 and 4 were procured and
distributed to schools. A study was undertaken to confirm delivery to schools, and establish
storage and accessibility to books delivered for primary grades 3 and 4.

(c) Reduce pupil-classroomratio. The pupil-classroomratio improved to 98:1under PRSC2, and
further to 94:l under PRSC3. Since then the ratio has stagnated at 94:1, owing to a higher than
anticipated enrollment. Supported by PRSC4, a value-for-money audit was undertaken for the
School Facilities Development Program. This audit, discussed during the November 2003
Education Sector Review, identifies lack o f proper maintenance, inadequate monitoring at all
levels, and delays and inefficiencies inprogram implementation. However, it found the unit costs
o f the program to be much lower than current market prices.

(d) Increase age-appropriate children inthe last year o fprimary school. Government has begunto
monitor the share o f age-appropriate children inthe final year o f primary school and will continue
efforts to improve this, to reach the MDG o f universal primary school completion. While
substantial improvement in the ratio i s likely to take some time, Government i s committed to
monitoring the ratio and implementing measures to improve it. The ratio i s currently 10percent.

(e) Monitoring and evaluation. To better target efforts for quality improvement, a fkamework for
monitoring quality outcomes i s being finalized, with indicators for regular monitoring o f student
progress in literacy and numeracy already agreed upon. Net enrollment ratio, and survival rates
also continue to be monitored.
(0A draft costed strategic plan for tertiary education. To prepare for absorption ofthe increasing
enrollment arising from UPE, and to focus on areas that are critical for national development,
Government and its development partners jointly undertook a series o f shidies on tertiary
education to identify options for its sustainable development. The results o f these studies and
stakeholder consultations contributed to the draft strategic plan for higher education, which was
discussed at the November 2003 Education Sector Review and i s currently being finalized.

147.     Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The overall priority o f the sector i s to
improve the quality o f primary education and increase access to secondary education. Improving
the quality o f primary schooling will improve the completion rates and hasten progress towards
the Millennium Development Goal. The Tenth Education Sector Review (November 2003)
established the undertakings for PRSC5 (to be confirmed in the November 2004 review). These
undertakings focus on quality improvement and holistic sector development. In addition to its
annual review, the sector holds a semi-annual workshop in March each year. Finally, the sector
has just completed an updated Education Sector Investment Plan, which further refines and
cements these priorities, including gender-disaggregated indicators and targets.



                                                 129

148.     Education sector prior actions for PRSCS: To be confirmed in the November 2004
review, Government has satisfactorily implemented the following undertakings agreed in the
education sector review o fNovember 2003.

(a) Financial commitment. Budget and releases in line with Government o f Uganda guidelines
that stipulate a minimum o f 31 percent o f recurrent discretionary expenditure for education. At
least 65 percent o f the total education sector budget i s allocated to primary education.

(b) Public expenditure management. (i) a progress report on the implementation o f the
                                               Provide
Financial Management Strengthening Component o f the Second Economic and Financial
Management Project and Financial Accountability Project (April 2003). (ii)              Complete a study on
the allocation and utilization o f resources in institutions and Ministry o f Education and Sports
departments whose roles directly impact on the quality o f learning inprimary school.

(c) Quality enhancement. (i)Pupil-teacher ratio calculated nationally and by district: 58:1; (ii)
pupil-core textbook ratio 3:1"; (iii)     pupil-classroom ratio calculated nationally and by district:
97:1.
(d) Outcome (equitable quality). (i)Government will measure and report on the following
(gender-disaggregated): completion rates for primary grade              7;18  survival rates for all grades;
percentage o f pupils reaching defined levels o f competency in literacy and numeracy in primary
grades 3 and 6; net enrollment ratios, particularly for the most disadvantaged districts monitored.
(ii) Government will develop new critical indicators to reflect the realities, aspirations, and targets
o f the Education Sector InvestmentPlan I1and the thirdPEAP.

(e) A costed strategic plan for higher education feeds into the 2004/05 planning and budgeting
cycle.


Outcome9:Reduce childmortality,improvematernalhealth, and combatHTV/MDS,
malariaand other diseases

149.     Expected outputs over the next three years. The Ninth Health Sector Joint Review
(November 2003) noted that the strategies adopted in the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP)
remain relevant and appropriate for improving health inUganda. The Plan thus remains the major
strategic document guidingUganda's health sector reformprogram until 2005. It i s supported by
a sectonvide approach with the participation o f and close coordination among Govemment,
development partners, and private-not-for-profit and private-for-profit health providers, as well as
NGOs. Over the PRSC period, Uganda i s expected to achieve the following outputs:
 *    An increase inthe share of health facilities with qualified staff from 55 to 60 percent (using
          Uganda's new staffing norms);
      Maintaining diptheria-pertussis-tetanus (DPT3) immunization coverage above 80 percent;
      Maintenance o f outpatient department utilization rates above 0.72 visits per capita;
      A decrease inthe national ante-natal HIV sero-prevalence from 6.2 to 5.5 percent;
      An increase inhealth facility-based birthsfrom 20 to 25 per~ent'~;
      50 percent district coverage o f home-based management o f fevers;
      Increaseby 20 percent the number o f facilities offering youth-friendly services; and
      Increase by 20 percent the proportion o f static health facilities offering family planning
          services.



"Forprimarygrades3and4.
l8Primary completionrate i s defined   as the total number o fpupilsregistered for the primary leaving exam,
regardless o f age, expressed as a percentage o f the population at the official primary graduation age.
19Not including other skilled hands deliveries

                                                    130

150.     Progress: Many key indicators have continued to show positive trends, with most o f the
18 HSSP targets being achieved. Targets for three o f the five PEAP indicators were exceeded.
DPT3 immunization coverage rose from 63 percent in2002 to 84 percent in 2003 (Annex 1Table
1). Utilization o f outpatient departments increased fi-om 0.6 visits per capita in 2002 to 0.72 in
2003; the increase i s even more significant when absolute figures are used for the analysis. The
proportion o f approved posts filled by trained health workers rose from 42 to 67 percent (or 55
percent using the new staffing norms). Average ante-natal HIV sero-prevalence seems to have
stabilized at 6 percent over the last four years; the rate in 2003 was 6.2 percent-down fkom 6.5
percent in 2002, but still off the year's target o f 5.8 percent. Maternal mortality remains a great
concern. Although at 20.3 percent, the downward trend in the proportion o f women delivering in
public and private nonprofit health facilities seems to have been halted, the level i s still
unacceptably low. Only a few districts contributed to this marginal increase, and many districts
still remain well below the already low national average.

Annex 1Table 1:Progress against PEAP Indicators


 Indicator                                         Baseline       2000101     2001102      2002103
                                                   value
 OPD Utilization (Total GoU and PNFP)              0.40           0.43        0.60         0.72
 DPT3 Immunization Coverage                        41 percent     48%         63%          84%
 % of deliveries in healthfacilities               25.2%          22.6%       19%          20.3%
 (Total GoU and PNFP)
 Approved postsfilled by trained healthworkers     33%            40%         42%          67% (*)
 (excluding nurse aides)
 Urbadrural specific Ante natal HIV sero-           6.8%          6.1%        6.5%         6.2%
 prevalence
 (National Average)
 (*) 55 percent ifnew staffing norms are used.

151.     Government i s committed to improving the health o f the Ugandan people and has made
progress in implementing the Health Sector Strategic Plan, as demonstrated in the mid-term
review in 2003. However, the sector continues to face significant challenges in improving health
and contributing to poverty reduction. The leading causes o f morbidity and mortality are largely
preventable and are attributable to communicable diseases and maternal and child problems.
Women and children bear a disproportionate burden o f illhealth.

152.     High matemal and infant mortality rates have shown little improvement over the years.
The recommendations o f the Taskforce on Infant and Maternal Mortality have been followed
with the assessment o f emergency obstetric care services and the development of a costed
strategy to improve reproductive health, but implementation o f comprehensive and integrated
inter-sectoral interventions to address the strong linkages between infant and maternal mortality
remains a challenge.

153.     The shortage o f human resources for health remains a critical issue that needs to be
addressed in order to further improve health service delivery. Despite some increases in staffing,
the gap i s still very large, especially inrural areas. Limited training output (especially o f frontline
workers),    inefficient recruitment/ deployment procedures, and generally poor personnel
management exacerbate the problems.

154.     Implementation o f the Health Sector Strategic Plan i s entering the period o f
consolidation, where the need to improve the quality o f services i s most important. This i s
especially relevant in the context o f the rising utilization o f outpatient services following the
abolition o f user fees. Sustained progress will depend largely on the management capacity o f the
districts, which are responsible for managing and delivering the basic package o f health services,
and still remains weak.



                                                 131

155.      Government recognizes the importance o f involving individuals and communities in
taking charge o f their own health. However, community mobilization and empowerment for
health remain weak. Current efforts are isolated and piecemeal while community management
structures for promotion o f health are underutilized. A recent household survey highlighted low
levels o f healthy practices and behaviors in the population, especially in rural areas (LQASHIV
Survey 2003).

156.      Civil strife in Northern and Northeastern regions o f the country has resulted in large
numbers o f internally displaced persons. Their high level o f ill health i s considered to be a
significant contributor to Uganda's poor health outcomes. It i s important that the challenges o f
providing health care for this populationare addressed.

157.     Reform strategy. Joint sector reviews are held twice each year to review sector
performance, monitor progress, diagnose and address key problems, set new targets, and
coordinate sector resources. The joint reviews use 18 sector indicators (of which the five PEAP
indicators discussed above are a subset) to monitor the progress o f the Health Sector Strategic
Plan. Comparisons o f district performance against the HSSP indicators are used to monitor sector
performance and Plan implementation at the district level.

158.      The National Health Assembly, launched during the NinthJoint Sector Review, i s a new
mechanismto engage major stakeholders, especially local governments, inhealthpolicy dialogue
and review of sector performance. The Assembly will be held once every two years, immediately
before thejoint sector review.

159.      Key areas for improving health sector performance include the following:

(a) Continue to improve humanresources for health. With support from previous PRSCs,
Government (i)    trained nursingaides; (ii)consolidated the fragmented payrolls o fhealth workers
into one payroll; (iii) initiatedcoordinationbetweenthe Ministryo f Health and the Ministryof
Education and Sports over the training o fhealth workers; and (iv) developed a HumanResources
for Healthpolicy. With support from PRSC4, Government operationalized this policy, by:
addressing gaps between staff norms and salary budgets; usingspecific strategies to improve
management and outputs o f the training schools, as well as to increase recruitment and retention
o f health workers especially inhard-to-reach areas; and specifying strategies to improve the
management o f human resources for health.

(b) Strengthenreproductivehealth services. Over the previousyear, Government conducted needs
assessments for emergency obstetric care and for contraceptive commodities, and finalized the
review prepared by the taskforce on infant and maternal mortality, ledby the Ministry o f Finance.
The Population Secretariat i s to take a lead in strengthening reproductivehealth and family
planning advocacy inUganda, with special focus on politicians, religious leaders, and other
community leaders. Monitoring ofreproductive health indicators i s to be strengthened at all
levels.

(c) Increase community mobilization. To address the low levels o f knowledge, good practice, and
behavior, the Ministryo f Health will intensify its strategic direction and advocacy o f community
mobilization, and increase communities' capacity for involvement and participation inmanaging
their own health. At the local government level, leaders will be encouraged to be more
accountable for the health o f their people. Work plans at various levels will clearly include
community mobilization activities.

(d) Improve healthservices for internally displaced persons. Provision o fhealth services inthe
face o f insecurity inthe Northern and Easternparts o f the country i s a challenge to the health
sector, and the problem o f reaching internally displaced persons i s especially severe. Many


                                               132

stakeholders including UNagencies, bilateral and multilateral partners, and NGOs have made an
effort to help but coordination remains an issue. To address this problem, at the central level, the
MinistryofHealthwill bringpartners together to encourage comprehensive healthsector support
to districts with insecurity, including health services for intemally displaced persons. At the local
government level, comprehensive plans for health services inareas with insecurity, including
health services for displaced persons, will be developed.

(e) Mobilizationo f additionalresources. Government will finalize the necessary work plans and
establish the necessary mechanisms for activities that are to be financed by the Global Fundfor
AIDS, TB, and Malaria. Assistance from the Global Fundwill support scaling up o f HIV/AIDS
interventions, especially the provision o f anti-retroviral drugs.Inaddition, the Global Fundwill
support scaling up o f directly observed treatment of tuberculosis, and o f home-based management
o f fevers, to cover the entire country. Insecticide-treated bednets will be provided to pregnant
women and under-fives through a vouchers system.

160.     Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: The sector's main additional efforts
will be to improve sanitation and emergency obstetric services and expand coverage for family
planning services and delivery o f ARVs and home-based management o f fevers. In addition, the
sector will implement its plan to reduce infant and maternal mortality while giving support to the
Finance Ministry-led multisector plan to reduce infant and maternal mortality. The undertakings
for PRSCS, established by the NinthHealth Sector Review (November 2003), are:

(a) Sanitation. Establish a subsector working group for sanitation to coordinate and liaise with
sanitation stakeholders and operationalize the Memorandum o f Understanding, outlining budget
mechanisms for sanitation at all levels and testing models in selected districts and urban councils
(as has been adopted by the water sector).

(b) Finance. Program 9 Traclng Study; (i) stakeholders' workshop to finalize Program 9
                                                 hold
Tracking study report; (ii)  implement recommendations.

(c) Drugs and procurement. Based on a technical review, examine the requirements for additional
working capital/stock financing for national medical stores and related capacity, to ensure zero
tolerance for stock-outs of essential drugs and health supplies, and propose a mechanism to
provide such funding and required support to national medical stores;

(d) Human Resources for Health. (i)Initiate the scaling up o f training and improvement of the
quality and outputs o f health workers for the Health Sector Strategic Plan; (ii)  Minister of Health
i s to appoint a technical committee to implement the recommendations o f the Parliamentary
Social Services Committee on revisiting the minimumrequirements for entry into health training
schools; (iii)undertake a tracking study on human resource training output, recruitment,
deployment and access to payroll, retention, and promotion.

(e) Basic package: HIV/AIDS. Scale up capacity for anti-retroviral therapy and uptake to all
hospitals and achieve accreditation o f at least half;
(0 Basic package: reproductive health. (i)Initiate emergency obstetric care        in the 17 districts
where needs assessment was done (only 5 percent o f HC lV met the criteria for basic emergency
obstetric care), so that at least 80 percent o f their hospitals are able to provide basic emergency
obstetric care; (ii)complete the needs assessment o f emergency obstetric care inthe remaining 37
districts; (iii)increase access to family planning services through both facility and non-facility
based approaches, working closely with NGOs; and

(8) Community mobilization. Finalize and begin implementing guidelines for community
dialogue, mobilization, and participationinhealthpromotion and health services delivery.




                                                 133

Outcome10:Improvedaccess tofunctionalwater and sanitationservices
161.     Expected outputs over the next three years. The overall priority o f the water and
sanitation sector i s to improve the quality o f service and efficient utilization o f available
resources. Over the PRSCperiod Uganda expects to achieve the following outputs:
 *   Fullyconsolidated sectonvide programinwater supply and sanitation services;
 +   Inrural areas, achieve by April 2006 an increase inaccess to safe water and sanitation from
 55 to 65 percent o f the population, for an average investment o f about US$ 50 per capita.
Meanwhile, as a result o f implementing a national maintenance strategy, the functionality rate o f
 water supply and sanitation systems will be maintained at a minimumo f 80 percent, and average
 time spent incollecting water will be reduced from 30 minutes to 25 minutes.
 *   In small towns, place all water supply and sanitation systems under water supply and
 sanitation authorities; their operations will be placed under private sector management and built
 at an average investment cost o f US$ 100per capita, with no operating subsidies.
 *   In urban areas, achieve by March 2006 an increase in access to safe (piped) water and
 sanitation from 65 to 70 percent o f the population, for an average investment cost o f US$ 150per
 capita. Average time spent collecting water will be reduced fkom 9 minutes to 5 minutes.
 *   Water supply and sanitation systems under the National Water and Sewerage Corporation
 will be placed under an asset holding authority, and its operations under enhanced private sector
 management.

162.     Progress: Substantial progress has been made on all last year's undertakings, even
though there are delays in certain strategic areas o freform implementation, inparticular regarding
institutional reforms for large towns. Undertakings for the period up to the 2004 Review were
identified and confirmed by the Sector Working Group. Inall, sector stakeholders identified nine
undertakings or strategic priority issues for further action.

163.     The September 2003 undertakmgs and strategic priority issues fall into four categories:
(a) Ensure that during the PEAP revision and the preparation o f the long-term expenditure
framework, sector funding, coordination and management take account o f the resource envelope
that will be required to finance the revised sector investment program. Efforts to meet both the
Millennium Development Goals and the PEAP targets for the sector should be calibrated by
programmed medium-term budget framework ceilings, rational resource allocation to subsectors,
and the aim o f achieving better value for money. (b) Ensure, through a dedicated subsector
working group on sanitation, that the delays and shortcomings o f the implementation o f the
Memorandum o f Understanding between the Ministry o f Water, Lands and Environment,
Ministry of Health, and Ministry of Education and Sports are addressed. (c) Introduce a
comprehensive performance measurement fkamework for the sector to ensure that inputs and
actions match the desired outputs and outcomes, and (d) Pay attention to operation and
maintenance o f water supply and sanitation systems in order to enhance the sustainability o f
service provision.

164.     Reform strategy: The strategy arising from the water supply and sanitation sector reform
process i s to increase access to, and the reliability, affordability, and sustainability of, services.

165.     Inrural areas, the reformstrategy aims to increase access and quality of service delivery.
District planning, procurement management, and especially construction supervision and
monitoring remain inadequate even though some measured progress has been made over the last
three years. The strategy, and the progress made ineach component, include the following:

(a)   Strengthen decentralized planning, implementation, and management through local
governments. Supported by PRSCl, to strengthen capacities for decentralized planning,
management, and supervision, half o f the districts set up fully staffed district water and sanitation
teams. With support from PRSC2, the Directorate o f Water Development finalized a water
supply and sanitation operational manual and implementation guidelines for districts, and


                                                134

introduced templates for environmental screening o f subprojects in districts. Supported by
PRSC3, Government pre-tested gender mainstreaming and environmental audits o f subprojects in
selected districts. Supported by PRSC4, Government initiated full-scale annual environmental
audits inall districts.

(b) Improve the capacity o f central government to channel technical assistance to local
governments. To strengthen the support role o f central government, the Directorate o f Water
Development was reorganized supported by PRSCs 1and 2 and responsibility for implementing
new projects inrural areas was devolved to the districts. Technical support units were established
to assist districts in developingwater supply and sanitation plans under the PRSC3. Supportedby
PRSC4, the water supply and sanitation plans will be refined for input into the PEAP revision.

(c) Increase the capacity for sustained delivery o f goods and services by developing and utilizing
local private sector bodies for engineering, construction, spare parts distribution, and
maintenance. Supported by PRSC1, as the first step, the Directorate o f Water Development
reviewed the maintenance and cost-recovery arrangements for water supply and sanitation
facilities. Supported by PRSC2, it carried out an operation and maintenance study and developed
a national maintenance strategy for water supply and sanitation facilities. Supported by PRSC3,
jointly with the Ministry o f Water, Lands, and Environment, the Directorate completed the
private sector support strategy, which i s beingrolled out supported by PRSC4.

(d) Develop a strategy for national hygienepromotion, sanitation, and communication. Supported
by PRSC1, the ministries o f Water and Health agreed on institutional responsibilities for
sanitation, and supported by PRSC2, jointly with the Ministry o f Education, they prepared a
strategy for national hygiene promotion, sanitation, and communication. Supported by PRSC3,
following the strategy, the Ministry o f WatedDirectorate for Water Development together with
the Ministryo f HealtWEnvironmentalHealth Department began implementing a training program
on hygiene promotion and sanitation for community extension workers in districts and sub-
counties.

 166.    In small towns, the water supply and sanitation strategy centers on changing the
management framework. The development o f piped water supplies in small towns was initially
based on an upgraded rural water supply and sanitation approach, but recent experience has
 shown it i s better to adapt a simplified urban approach. The strategy i s thus to introduce a new
water supply and sanitation management fkamework for small towns, on this basis. With support
 from PRSC1, Government adopted an interim management strategy for small town water supply
 and sanitation and started preparing the long-term strategy. Supported by PRSC2, the Directorate
 o f Water Development completed a long-term management strategy for small town water supply
 and sanitation, which includes the use o f small local private water supply and sanitation operators
to provide water supply and sanitation services. The implementation o f the strategy and
preparation o f an investment plan based on the strategy was initiated supported by PRSC3 and
PRSC4.

  167.   Inurbanareas,the strategyfocuses onimprovingthe access,reliability, andsustainability
 o f water supply and sanitation through the involvement o f the private sector in the operations o f
National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC).20 The operations o f the Corporation have
been inefficient, with performance indicators below African utility standards, and the
 connectiordreconnection policies have acted to deter existing and potential customers. The urban
 strategy includes the following:

 (a) Commercialize operations so that services are delivered by local or international private
 operators with a clear contractual relationship with Government, which will retain the ownership
 o f water supply and sanitation assets. Supported by PRSC1, the National Water and Sewerage


 ~




 2oNWSC is an autonomous parastatal serving 12 large municipalities.

                                                           135

Corporation signed a performance contract with Government as an interim measure to improve
efficiency. Supported by PRSC2, the Ministry o f Water and the Ministry o f Finance, Planning,
and Economic Development selected a transaction advisor to prepare the necessary
documentation and manage the selection o f a private operator to run the Corporation, but delays
were encountered in the mobilization o f the transaction advisor. With support from PRSC4, an
Implementation Technical Committee was established to accelerate the transaction advisory
services for preparation o f the legal framework for establishing an asset-holding authority and
appointing a regulator. The Ministryo f Water also finalized an urban water supply and sanitation
policy framework and investment program. Supported by PRSC3, Government completed
detailed designs o f urban water supply and sanitation systems, including a sewerage master plan
for Kampala and other large towns. The investment program has been launched supported by
PRSC4, starting with flagship projects using internally generated revenue in a number o f
additional towns.

(b) Improve the financial sustainability of urban water supply and sanitation delivery. To attract
potential private investors, the financial performance o f the National Water and Sewerage
Corporation needs to be strengthened. Supported by PRSC1, Ush 5 billion o f the debt owed by
government agencies to NWSC was settled. Out o f Ush 2.58 billion o f verified outstanding
arrears owed to the Corporation, another Ush 1.7 billion was settled supported by PRSC2, and
the remaining arrears were settled and the Corporation's long-term debt was frozen for another
three years with support from PRSC3. To attract new customers, the Corporation simplified its
connection policy supported by PRSC1. Supported by PRSC2, as the first step to adjusting its
tariff structure, NWSC adopted a formula for periodic tariff adjustment. Supported by PRSC3,
the Corporation simplified the water tariff structure to include a pro-poor connection policy and
safe water tariff for the poor. The implementation o f this new pro-poor tariff policy i s supported
by PRSC4.

168.     Reform strategy to be supported by PRSCs 5 and 6: PRSCS support will focus on
updating the sector investment program and speeding the implementation o f urban water and
sanitation institutional reforms, as well as on initiating a sector response to emergency situations.
The third joint sector review (September 2003) established the undertakings for PRSC5, which
are to be confirmed at the technical review in September 2004:

              a. Apply new subsector allocation principles and subsidy policy to FY2004/2005
                  budget for the water supply and sanitation sector.
              b. Carry out tracking study and value for money audits on subsector resource
                  utilization.
              c. Complete field testing o f coordinated sanitation planning and hygiene promotion
                  inselecteddistricts.
              d. Complete strategy and initiate program o fwater supply and sanitation facilities at
                  district health centers.
              e. Initiate the new sector management information system using the performance
                  measurement framework.
              f. Implement acceleratedstrategy for urbanwater supply and sanitation institutional
                  reforms: transform NWSC into an asset-holding entity; institute management
                  contracts in all areas o f operations; and establish the Directorate o f Water
                  Development as a technical regulator.
              g. Initiate implementation o f a water supply and sanitation response program to
                  emergency situations, focusing on internally displaced people.




                                               136

PRSC4crosscutting areas of focus
169.    PRSC4 supported Government efforts to focus on three cross-cutting areas: infant and
maternal mortality; gender; and results-orientation, These issues require interventions that cut
across the pillars o f the PEN, and the sectors and agencies o f Government.           PRSC4 has
supported addressing these issues in several pillars, and the details o f these interventions have
been described above. The section below bringsthese together.


Infant andmaternalmortality
170.    Highinfant and maternal mortality remain areas o f major concern and are a major focus
for the health sector.    The recommendations o f the multisectoral Taskforce on Infant and
Maternal Mortality have been followed up with the assessment o f emergency obstetric care
services, a study on family care practices, and a family planning commodity assessment. There i s
wide consensus on the six major areas that need special attention if Uganda i s to reduce infant
and maternal mortality rates: improving the quality of health care services; malaria control;
sanitation; child spacing/family planning; nutrition; and enhanced community mobilization. The
major causes o f mortality and contributing factors are largely preventable but addressing them
will require that challenges and opportunities are identified and effectively handled. In this
context, the actions needed are: to refocus policy implementation towards reducing mortality;
implement consistent, comprehensive, and coordinated interventions that ensure wide coverage
(4Cs); find additional resources through budget increases and efficiency gains; ensure that
interventions reach households and communities; enhance the capacity o f the health sector to
manage the common major causes o f death; and build strong and coordinated multisectoral
responses.

171.    The 2002 Census shows Uganda to have one o f the fastest population growth rates inthe
world, at 3.4 percent. Because o f the young population, the growth momentum will persist for at
least the next two decades. Inaddition, there i s strong evidence suggesting that the currently high
population growth i s putting a considerable brake on per capita growth prospects in Uganda and
negatively impacting the attainment o f national goals in education, health, and poverty reduction.
Nutrition i s a key determinant of mortality; on average it i s estimated that 60 percent o f all
childhood deaths are related to malnutrition.

172.    There are a number o f opportunities for carrying forward Uganda's reproductive health
and infant/maternal mortality agenda. The PEAP revision now in progress will incorporate the
findings and recommendations of the multisectoral Taskforce to ensure that the issues are
mainstreamed into Government's overall national strategy for poverty reduction. The strong
national priority accorded to reproductive health and enhanced partnership around mortality
reduction gives another window o f opportunity. There i s also an opportunity to obtain additional
funding for reproductive health and infanumaternal mortality initiatives and for HIV/AIDS from
the Global Fund.


 Gender
 173.    Consistent with the stronger focus on gender as a crosscutting issue inthe revised PEAP,
Government has decided to address gender issues more systematically with support from the
PRSC program,.      To this end, Government has prepared a set o f gender-focused actions for
implementation during the PRSC process. Government will monitor gender progress across all
sectors. The principal gender-focused actions included in the PRSC4 policy matrix (outlined in
more detail inAnnex 4), are as follows:

 174.   Under Pillar 1, Government will focus on strengthening the ways in which the
implications o f gender inequality are addressed inpolicies and budgets. PRSC4 will support the
implementation o f three interrelated tasks: (a) revision o f the National Gender Policy; (b)


                                              137

development and implementation o f gender and equity budget guidelines for the 2005/06 cycle;
and (c) addressing gender and growth linkages inUganda.

175.     Under Pillar 2, the reforms incorporate the key undertakings o f the Justice, Law, and
Order Sector Review, which include an important focus on gender and access to justice. Key
gender-related elements o f the undertakings include tabling the Domestic Relations Bill to
Parliament and tabling the Sexual Offenses Bill to Cabinet. These bills will provide an important
foundation for improving women's security. Effective implementation o f the other undertakings
of the Review will also improve poor men's and women's access to legal services.

176.     Under Pillar 3, Government will strengthen the efforts, initially launched with support
from PRSC3, to improve the access o f women to land. The Ministry o f Water, Lands, and
Environment will develop and implement a monitoring tool for the Land Sector Strategic Plan to
provide a baseline assessment o f women's land rights, including the level o f awareness among
key stakeholders. The baseline data collected would facilitate periodic monitoring and evaluation
o f the impact o f the public information campaigns, which will continue.       In addition, sex-
disaggregated indicators relating to access to agricultural services are included in the PRSC4
matrix.

177.     Under Pillar 4, Government will monitor the implementation o f the undertakings in the
Education, Health, and WaterISanitation Sector reviews, in order to ensure that their gender
dimensions are addressed explicitly. In addition, as noted elsewhere, the renewed focus on
reducing infant and maternal mortality affords a critical opportunity to address the gender
dimensions o f the issue as an integral part o f the comprehensive and multi-sectoral approach
supported by the PRSC process.

Results-driven process
178.     During the PEAP revision,       Government developed a results-oriented planning
framework. The PRSC4 policy matrix i s alignedwith this broader Government framework,

The planning process for PRSC4 focused on achieving results. All outcomes were revised and
medium-term measurable outputs have been defined for most areas o f the program. The format
o f the PRSC4 policy matrix, which represents the point o f departure for discussions between
Government and Uganda's development partners, has been changed to facilitate strengthened
results-orientation. The policy matrix and the quantitative monitoring indicators matrix have
been merged into the Policy Results Matrix (Schedule 2.) The consolidation will assist a results-
driven planning process, and ensure that progress can be monitored as an integral part o f the
continuous policy/reform action planning and review process.




                                            138

    e,




          E
          e,




s w

Li-




       0
       d,

     .-F    I
     Y




L




I

I

 A




      a
      m

          I    I    I




                            s2
                         a,
                         0"




B    I




                             I

a,

3
6

   -
      rr
       0




9t
v1




.-6
U
s2
a

L


L
.-6
0


U
5t
 e
e3



       3




I
lk
 E-

I

                    Annex 3: Principlesfor DeterminingPrior Actions

Principlesfor Prior Actions in the UgandaPovertyReductionStrategySupport Credit (PRSC)
Programs. The following principles have been developed during PRSC4 to guide the development o fprior
actions for the PRSC programs:
1. About the Principles
    These principles concern the establishment o f Prior Actions (conditions) for disbursement o f the World
 Bank-supported PRSCs in Uganda. The principles are intended to be complementary and subordinate to
 the agreed "Partnership Principles between Government of Uganda and its Development Partners",
 Kampala September 2003.
2.  The PovertyReductionSupport Credit (PRSC)
  a.  The PRSC i s a core operation to implement the objectives o f Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action
      PlaniPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PEAPFRSP), and the Bank Group's Country Assistance
      Strategy (CAS).
 b. The PRSCs are sequential annual credits, and each PRSC is seen as an annual step in a three-year
      medium-term reformprogram.
3. Prior Actions
  a.  Each PRSC i s based on a set o f conditions ("prior actions") that the government fulfills before the
      grandcredit i s presented to the World Bank Board. These prior actions are based on shared
      expectations between Government o f Uganda (GoU), the World Bank (WB), and other development
      partners.
  b. Prior actions should be based uponpolicy dialogue, and aligned with Uganda's Poverty Eradication
      Action Plan and country assistance priorities. Prior actions should normally correspond to all the
      major reform areas (pillars) o f the Poverty Eradication Action Program. The starting point for
      discussion is the set o f prior actions o f the preceding PRSC.
  C.  The flexibility inherent in the PRSC comes not from defining vague or easily-met prior actions, but
      from agreeing on specific and monitorable milestones and then measuring progress against them, with
      reasonedjudgments allowing for disciplined adaptation.
  a.  Agreement o n prior actions is reached between GoU, the Bank, and other development partners
       shortly after pre-appraisal and before appraisal. Prior actions are at this stage considered binding, but
       are in exceptional circumstances adaptable in the face o f uncertainties inside and outside o f the
      program.
  e. Completion o f the prior actions i s a condition for proceeding to the World Bank Board for approval of
       the grandcredit.
  f. When prior actions are not met by negotiations, there are three altematives: (i)       reduce support; (ii)
       delay program; and (iii) Credit intranches.
                                 release

4. Anticipated Prior Actions
a. Each PRSC also includes a notional set o f tentative prior actions that are presented in the program
     documentation. The tentative prior actions are not bindingfor the next PRSC.
b. As one PRSC becomes effective, and the preparation o f the next commences, the tentative actions
     identified under the first help shape and form the basis for preparation and agreement o f prior actions
     under the next. It i s important for the reformprogram to have a predictable and sustained approach.
c.   The anticipated prior actions should normally be discussed, and agreement on broad areas to be covered
     should be reached at the pre-appraisal o f the preceding PRSC.
d. Exact area and precise wording o f the anticipated prior actions should be agreed during appraisal and
     negotiations o f the preceding PRSC.
e. Where tentative prior actions may have to be revised, the fault may lie in a poor choice o f tentative
     actions, unexpectedly weak execution o f elements o f the reform program, faster than expected
     implementation o f elements o f the reform program, or changing circumstances outside the reform
     program.




                                                    150

                              Annex 4: GenderIssues inPRSC4


Backgroundand Context
1. In the ongoing revision o f the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP), the Ugandan
authorities have given much more substantive attention to gender issues as a cross-cutting
dimension o f development. Several factors bolstered the Government's recognition that gender
issues were insufficiently addressed in the 1997 PEAP and in the 2000 PEAP update, while
falling income poverty at the time seemed to diminish the urgency o f focusing on gender issues
explicitly. First, the 2000/01DHS survey showed increasing mortality rates, which were negating
the benefits o f GDP growth. Further examination o f the underlying causes revealed that unequal
gender relations were affecting household-level decisions that themselves had an important
impact on the welfare o f household members. Second, the results o f the Poverty and Social
Impact Assessment (PSIA) o f the strategic exports strategy suggested that gender inequality was
hampering the supply response sought under the strategy, which in tum suggested that continued
gender inequality has wider economic and growth implications for Uganda. Third, the
UPPAP/PPA2 process, undertaken in 2001102, made apparent that poverty in Uganda has
important gender dimensions, not least that the "overburden" o f women was a significant issue
throughout the country, with implications across many sectors. Consequently, the Ugandan
authorities were determined to give much greater prominence to gender issues in the 2003/04
PEAP Revision.

2. The Government established a PEAP Gender Team in 2002 under the leadership o f the
Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Economic Development (MoFPED) to take the lead in
coordinating and managing the integration o f gender, as one o f the key cross-cutting issues for the
PEAP. MoFPED worked together with the Ministry o f Gender, Labor, and Social Development
(MGLSD) to commission a "desk review" o f gender and poverty issues, which was completed in
M a y 2003, and prepared guidelines for addressing gender issues in each o f the Sector Working
Papers (SWPs) being prepared as input into the PEAP revision. A technical workshop on
engendering the PEAP was held in March 2003. Concurrently, the Government commissioned
further gender-focused analyticalwork to underpinthe more systematic integrationo f gender into
the PEAP revision. This work included: (i)a gender analysis o f the U N H S 2001/02 data set to
obtain a clearer understanding o f some o f the key gender dynamics o f poverty inthe country; (ii)
a preliminary econometric analysis o f gendedgrowth linkages in Uganda, to address the
implications o f gender inequality for Uganda's growth prospects and potential; (iii)further
analysis o f population dynamics in Uganda, to address the persistent high rate o f population
growth; (iv) a gender analysis o f the Justice, Law and Order Sector (JLOS), undertaken by the
MinistryofJustice; and(v) a gender review ofmost o fthe Sector Working Papers (SWPs) which
were prepared for the PEAP revision to highlight opportunities and gaps for integrating gender
concerns.


Genderinthe RevisedPEAP
3,   This program o f analytical work and policy-focused reviews has contributed to deepening the
understanding o f gender issues in Uganda that are relevant for the PEAP revision, and has
contributedto sharpening the gender focus o f the PEAP itself. Specifically, this has brought to the
fore emerging gender issues inthree critical areas:

t    gender inequality in access to and control o fresources (inwhich access to land i s a primary
     concern);
t    women's overall work burden and time poverty, as revealednotably inthe UPPAP/ PPA2;
     and



                                              151

+   addressing the problem o f domestic violence and other forms o f gender-based violence, in
    view o f recent insights concerning boththe prevalence and nature o f the problem, and the
    linkages with the spread o f the HIV/AIDSpandemic.

Gender inPRSC4
4. The Government has followed through on this expanded focus on gender in the PEAP by
addressing key gender issues in the PRSC process, as the primary instrument supporting PEAP
implementation. To this end, the Government has prepared a set o f gender-focused actions, which
are reflected inthe PRSC4 policy matrix, as summarized below:


Table: PrincipalGender-FocusedActions inthe PRSC 4 PolicyResultMatrix
Pillar Outcome/Output
       I                                     I PRSC4 Action
     I Implicationsofgenderinequality
       1                             -~      I M G L S D to initiate the revision o f the National Gender
        for-growth and development             Policy.
         addressed inpolicy and budgets        MoFPED and M G L S D to initiate and develop gender and
                                               equity budgeting guidelines for the 2005106 budget cycle.
     I                                         MoFPED and M G L S D to carry out analysis o f gender and
                                               growth linkages.
    I1 Greater access to, andimproved          JLOS undertakings include tabling o f Domestic Relations
         enforcement of, the justice system    Bill(DRB)to parliament andtabling o f SexualOffences Bill
                                               (SOB) to Cabinet
   I11 Secure landtenure across                M o W L E initiates development o f evaluation tool for LSSP
         categories o f land users including   to provide baseline assessment o f women's landrights,
         communities, and greater access to    including awareness level.
         and control o f land by women.


5. In addition, the PRSC4 policy matrix includes gender-disaggregated and gender-responsive
indicators relating to: (i)   access to agricultural services (Pillar 111); (ii) undertakings in the
                                                                                       the
education sector for primary completion; and the undertakings in the health sector for child and
maternal mortality, HIV prevalence, and adolescent health (Pillar IV).Moreover, the renewed
focus on reducing the high rates o f infant and maternal mortality, and the determination o f the
Government to implement the recommendations o f the Task Force on Infant and Maternal
Mortality (IMM),represent a critical opportunity to address the gender dimensions o f these issues
inthe multi-sectoralapproach supported bythe PRSCprocess.


Pillar I
6. Under Pillar I,PRSC4 will focus on strengthening the ways in which the implications o f
gender inequality are addressed in policies and budgets, in conjunction with the PEAP revision.
The three inter-related tasks are: (i)    revision o f the National Gender Policy; (ii)       development and
implementation o f gender and equity budget guidelines for the 2005/06 cycle; and (iii)              addressing
gender and growth linkages inUganda, disseminating the results o f this analysis, and developing
a strategy for addressing gendedgrowth linkages in subsequent growth and export diversification
policies. These are discussed inmore detail below.

7. PRSC4 will support MGLSD to revise, in collaboration with other stakeholders, the National
Gender Policy. This policy i s to be revised to take account o f new information and analysis on
gender and poverty linkages, which have emerged during the PEAP revision process, along with
new insights on the linkages between gender inequality and economic growth. The policy will
enable MGLSD to focus its interventions and capacity in critical areas, including carrying out its
additional responsibilities to conduct community outreach in the context o f the nationwide
initiative to reduce infant and maternalmortality.



                                                   152

8. MoFPED i s determined to improve the gender-responsiveness o f public budgets while
strengthening the coherence o f the budget process with upstream policy and planning. Examining
budgets through a gender lens can help in identifying shifts in priorities which would make
actions more responsive to the different priorities and needs o f men and women. It can also help
to identify gaps in access to, and distribution o f benefits from, public resources. Gender-informed
budgets promote both equity and efficiency. A study in2002 by the Poverty Eradication Working
group (PEWG) had established that there was unequal access to and use o f public services
between men and women because o f gender inequalities. As part o f PRSC4, a key action to be
carried out by MFPED, with support from MGLSD and other stakeholders, i s to initiate and
develop gender and equity budgeting guidelines, which are to be integrated into the Budget
Circular that will underpin preparation o f Sectoral Budget Framework Papers (BFPs) in the
2005/06 budget cycle. Implementation o f these guidelines, once developed, would initially focus
on the key sectors o f health, education, agriculture extension, and water and sanitation, as these
are sectors which have made the most progress in articulating gender-responsive strategies and
programs. The guidelines will help to streamline and standardize the tools used to strengthen the
gender-responsiveness o f sectoral budgets, and facilitate their effective adoption by budget
officials inboth central and local governments. The purpose o f the guidelines would be to provide
a step-by-step mechanism for integrating gender into the budget process. It i s expected that the
impact o f the guidelines on the preparation o f the 2005/06 budget will be one o f the topics o f the
2005 workshop on the budget. TORSfor the preparation o f the guidelines have been prepared and
consultants to support the work have been identified.   The guidelines are expected to be completed
by September 2004, so as to be incorporated into the Budget Circular that will be issued in
October 2004.

9. In 2003, MoFPED commissioned initial empirical work on linkages between gender
inequality and economic growth in Uganda, with the aim o f better understanding gender-based
obstacles to achieving the PEAP growth targets. This work has led to identification o f key areas
o f focus for further analysis and research, including fertility, gender gaps in education,
employment, and bargaining power at the household level, and gender differences in the division
o f labor and inthe economic incentives facing men and women. MoFPED and other partners will
develop and implement a further program o f research in this area, and develop a strategy to
address gendedgrowthlinkages in growth and export diversification policies and programs.


Pillar I1
10. PRSC4 has incorporated satisfactory progress in implementing the undertakings o f the JLOS
review, which was agreed inNovember 2003. These undertakings include an important focus on
gender and access to justice. Key gender-related elements o f the undertakmgs include tabling o f
the Domestic Relations Bill (DRB) to Parliament, tabling o f the Sexual Offenses Bill (SOB) to
Cabinet. These bills will provide an important foundation for addressing issues o f improving
women's security, especially inrelation to issues o f access to and control o f resources. They will
also provide a critical foundation for tackling issues o f gender-based violence, including sexual
violence, which have emerged not only as a critical issue for Uganda but also as one directly
linked with the spread o f HIV/AIDS, and the ways in which risk and vulnerability to HIV/AIDS
differ for men and for women,. Effective implementation o f the other undertakings o f the JLO
Sector review will also improve poor men's and women's access to legal services.


Pillar I11
11. PRSC4 will strengthen the efforts, initially launched under PRSC3, to improve the access o f
women to land. Progress under PRSC3 in increasing awareness of women's land rights among
key stakeholders was very limited, inpart because of a lack o f focus of the actions envisaged and
because o f capacity constraints. Moreover, beyond statistical occurrence, it has not been possible


                                               153

to verify the .impact o f these activities in the absence o f definitive baseline data. M o W L E has
implemented several information campaigns in the last year, including radio spots, talk shows,
workshops, and messages on school exercise books.

12. To provide a more solid foundation for implementing this program, M o W L E will develop
and implement a monitoring tool for the Land Sector Strategic Plan (LSSP) which will provide a
baseline assessment o f women's land rights, including the level o f awareness among key
stakeholders. Once this baseline has been established, M o W L E will develop and test methods for
tracking the implementation o f the provisions o f the Land Act concerning family security o f
occupancy, and will conduct further information campaigns to raise awareness o f women's land
rights among key stakeholders. The baseline data collected would facilitate periodic monitoring
and evaluation o f the impact o fthe public information campaigns.

13. In addition, the PRSC4 matrix includes sex-disaggregated indicators relating to access to
agricultural services, which will be monitored duringPRSC implementation.


Pillar IV
14. PRSC4 will monitor the implementation o f the undertakings in the Education, Health, and
Waterhanitation Sector reviews, in order to ensure that their gender dimensions are addressed
explicitly.


Looking Forward
15. Gender i s a new area o f focus for the PRSC process. The actions which will be supported
under PRSC4 provide a solid platform for the more systematic integration o f gender issues into
policies and budgets, while at the same time focusing on key reforms with respect to legal
protections and land rights. This agenda will be continued under PRSC 5 and 6. PRSC 5 will
focus on progress made in: (i) process o f updating the National Gender Policy; (ii)
                                   the                                                            the
implementation, and impact, o f the gender and equity budget guidelines prepared for the 2005/06
budget cycle; and (iii)    implementing the gendedgrowth research program and developing a
strategy for addressing gender issues in the country's growth and export diversification policies;
and (iv) tracking the implementation o f the provisions o f the Land Act concerning family security
o f occupancy.    PRSC 6 will pursue the work o f integrating gender into sectoral Budget
Framework Papers and the associated sectoral budgets, will track implementation o f the National
Gender Policy, and will complete the strategy for addressing the gender dimensions o f growth in
Uganda. PRSC 6 will: (i) implementation o f the National Gender Policy; (ii)
                            track                                                       complete the
strategy for addressing the gender dimensions of growth in Uganda; (iii)        continue to track the
impact o f actions to improve women's land rights; and (iv) pay particular attention to progress in
implementing the gender-focused elements o f the JLOS undertakings, including the status o f the
Domestic Relations Bill and the Penal Code (Amendment) Bill (the Sexual Offenses Bill).




                                                154

                Annex 5: Analysis of EnvironmentandResettlementIssues
1. This document presents an analysis o f environmental and resettlement issues in the fourth
annual Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSC4) for Uganda. This discussion builds upon
the previous PRSC environmental assessments, and considering that PRSCs are sequential annual
tranches, repeats the previous impact and mitigation considerations, adding more details
regarding resettlement and pesticides. The Annex i s divided into four sections. Section I
summarizes the project. Section I1 summarizes impact and mitigation measures. Section I11
presents the key environmental, resettlement, pesticide and other policy issues along with relevant
mitigatory measures and monitoring needs. Section IV discusses institution capacity buildingfor
issues o f environment and involuntary resettlement in Uganda. Finally, Section V proposes
indicative plans for monitoring and supervision.

Overview o f ProposedGrant
2. PRSC4 Project Goals, Objectives and Structures. PRSC4 continues to support the
implementation o f Uganda's poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan (PEAP) and summarized inthe Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).
The overarching goal o f PEAP policies and resource allocations i s to reduce the incidence o f
poverty in Uganda (based on the headcount index) from 44 percent in 1997 to 10 percent or less
by the year 2017. The PEAP also sets forth the specific goals o f achieving universal access to
primary education, primary health care, safe drinking water, rural development, guaranteeing
political freedom and human rights, and establishing an effective disaster relief system targeted at
the poor, Government's strategy for poverty eradication i s based on four pillars:

(1) Creatinga framework for economic growth andtransformation;
(2) Strengthening good governance and security;
(3) Increasing the ability o f the poor to raise their incomes;
(4) Improving the quality o f life o fthe poor.

PRSC4 continues supporting reforms under eachpillar.

3. PRSC4 objective and activities. The specific objective o f PRSC4 i s to improve public service
delivery, given that poor public service performance i s one o f the key constraints to economic
development and poverty reduction. In particular, PRSC4 will continue supporting the reform
program adopted under PRSCs 1, 2, and 3, further developing and deepening the rural agenda,
specifically the agro-processing and marketing component. The reform program supports
activities that raise the quality o f life and incomes of the poor; specifically, improve access to and
quality o f education, health, water and sanitation services, and improve rural services. Since
improving the delivery o f these services requires a more broad-based action than only addressing
sector-specific constraints to their delivery, the reform program focuses heavily on crosscutting
governance issues (such as public procurement, financial management, anti-corruption, and
monitoring and evaluation) and public expenditure management.

4. PRSC4 will support activities inthe following areas:

     Public expenditure management financial sector strengthening, and monitoring and
evaluation. (i)  align expenditure with PRSP priorities; (ii)    include donor-financed projects and
link staffing plan with the wage bill in the medium-term expenditure framework; (iii)           reduce
deviations from the budget; (iv) streamline inter-governmental fiscal transfers; (v) enhance
results-orientation o f sector expenditure programs; (vi) streamline and strengthen monitoring
and evaluation arrangements; (v) strengthen financial sector performance.

     Cross-cutting public sector reforms: (i) service management (public sector pay reform,
                                                 public
improve payroll management, control expansion o f public administration, launch a public service
reform); (ii)public procurement (update the legal and regulatory framework, reformprocurement

                                                  155

arrangements, strengthen enforcement o f procurement rules and regulations, improve efficiency
of National Medical Stores); (iii)financial management (update the legal and regulatory
framework,     improve accounting and reporting, strengthen audit structures and practices,
implement regular expenditure traclung surveys); (iv) transparency (improve access to public
information); (v) civil society participation (develop NGO policy and code o f conduct); (vi)
detection, investigation and prosecution o f corruption; (vii) legal andjudicial reform (implement
commercialjustice reforms to enhance enforcement o f commercial contracts).
.    Promoting enabling environment for rural development: (i)    research and technology (improve
responsiveness and impact o f publicly funded agricultural research); (ii)    agricultural advisory
services (increase access and effectiveness o f agricultural advisory services); (iii)rural finance
(develop legal and regulatory framework for microfinance); (iv) land (implement the 1998 Land
Act in a prioritized manner, promote access to land by women and childredorphans); (v)
environment (integrate environmental sustainability concerns in government programs); (vi)
agro-processing and marketing (reduce constraints to agro-processing and marketing).

     Improve quality o f education: (i)primary education (reduce pupil-teacher ratio, pupil-
textbook ratio, pupil-classroom ratio); (ii)post-primary education (develop and implement a
strategy for the expansion o fpost-primary education).

     Improving health care: (i) care financing (rationalize health care financing); (ii)
                                 health                                                         drug
procurement and management (strengthen procurement and management o f drugs and medical
supplies); (iii)human resources (increase human resource for health); (iv) health infrastructure
(improve health infrastructure).

     Increase access to and reliability, affordability, and sustainability o f water supply and
sanitation    services:  (1)   rural  WSS     (strengthen   decentralized planning,     preparation,
implementation, and management; improve central government's capacity to provide technical
assistance to districts; utilize the local private sector for water supply and sanitation delivery;
develop a strategy for national hygiene promotion, sanitation, and communication); (ii)small
towns water supply and sanitation (introduce a new management framework); (iii)         urban water
supply and sanitation (introduce commercial operations, improve financial sustainability).

     In each of the sectors included in the PRSC, sector plans are prepared by sector working
groups, which include government officials, donors, NGOs, and private sector representatives.

5. Environmental ClassiJication and Safeguard Policy. Based on the above project objectives
and structures, PRSC4 was classified as a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC) at a meeting
convened by the Bankwide PRSC Working Group, in accordance with the Interim Guidelines for
PRSCs o f May 2001. According to Bank policy, the Operational Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment
Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.0 1, Environmental Assessment, apply. Given the nature
o f the grant, which includes support to Uganda's Plan for the Modernization o f Agriculture, OP
4.09, Pest Management, i s also applicable. Inaccordance with OP 4.01, the grant was categorized
as a B without a separate Environmental Assessment (EA), and i s so documented in the
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet. In accordance with the Bank's revised disclosure policy, this
environment and resettlement Annex i s being disclosed through the World Bank Infoshop, and in
Uganda with the World Bank Kampala office InfoShop and to NEMA for distribution to the
Districts.
6. Potential Environmental and Resettlement Impacts of PRSCI. Overall, the activities
supported by the PRSC4 continue for the most part along the lines o f the previous PRSCs. And
are not expected to result in major adverse, or irreversible, environmental impacts. Biophysical
environmental impacts, although thought to be modest given the nature o f the activities, can be
foreseen at this time only in a generic manner. The potential for land acquisition, resettlement,
and effects on cultural resources also cannot be ruled out, but such effects are likely to be limited
inextent given the de-emphasis on large-scale construction inthe PEAP approach and the nature

                                               156

o f IDA support to it, The environmental impacts o f activities in agriculture, education, health and
water and sanitation are expected to be sufficiently addressed by appropriate Ugandan institutions
and implementing agencies. Potential conflict over land use, land tenure, and common property
may arise in some o f these sectors. IDA currently has a strong presence in the above sectors and
will continue to work with counterparts to ensure that appropriate mitigatory measures are
promoted and incorporated into grant activities. Table 1 shows the investment projects that
complement PRSC4 in the areas o f environment, roads, agriculture, health, and water and
sanitation and their development objectives in Uganda. As relevant, each o f these investment
projects fully incorporates Bank safeguards issues, management plans and monitoring of
environmental and social performance indicators.

Annex 5 Table 1:Investment ProjectsComplementingPRSC4

Name of Project                                     Project's Development Objectives
Environment:
Second Environmental Management Capacity            Promote sustainable environmental and natural
Building Project                                    resources management at the national, district and
                                                    community levels.

Institutional Capacity Building--Protected Areas    Establish effective institutional capacity within wildlife
Management and Sustainable Use Project              and tourism sectors for strategic planning, program
                                                    development and implementation, and promote
                                                    long-term sustainability.

Lake Victoria Environment Credit                    Rehabilitate the lake ecosystem.

Roads:
Roads Development Program                           Improve access to rural and economically productive
                                                    areas, and build up road sector planning and
                                                    management capability.

Second Phase of the Road Development Program        Improve access to rural and economically productive
                                                    areas, and build up road sector planning and
                                                    management capability.

Road Sector/lnstitutional Support Technical         Strengthen     the    Government`s        road    sector
Assistance Project                                  management.

Agriculture:
Agriculture Research and Training                   To     support     technology      development       and
                                                    dissemination, consistent with Uganda's Plan for
                                                    Modernization of Agriculture.

National Agriculture Advisory Services Project      Establish an effective and sustainable demand-
                                                    driven agricultural advisory service.
Health:
HIVIAIDS Control Project                            Support the implementation of the National Strategic
                                                     Framework for HIV/AIDS to reduce the spread of
                                                     HIV; mitigate the health and socio-economic impact
                                                    of HIV/AIDS; and to strengthen the national capacity
                                                    to respond to the epidemic.



Summary of Impacts, MitigationMeasures, Capacity Building, and Monitoring and
Evaluation
Sectoral Impact Analysis

7. Rural development. Potential adverse impacts o f the activities under the Plan for the
Modernization o f Agriculture include environmental and natural resource degradation due to

                                                 157

intensification  o f small-holder agriculture; expansion o f large-scale agriculture (cash crops);
increased use o f ago-chemicals, and development o f rural roads to support agricultural
marketing. Such impacts need to be anticipated and managed appropriately. Several agencies are
responsible for environmental management in Uganda. Ministry o f Water, Lands, and
Environment and Ministry o f Agriculture, Animal Industry, and Fisheries are responsible for
management o f sustainable natural resources development. National Bureau o f Standards,
National Agricultural Research Organization, and National Agricultural Advisory Services are
responsible for mitigating impacts from agrochemicals (including pesticides) through
improvement o f agricultural technology, research, and training. The Road Agency Formation
Unit is developing capacity to screen activities and prepare environmental assessments and
management plans for its own projects, including district roads. The National Environmental
Management Authority coordinates intersectoral review o f environmental impact assessments for
projects that will significantly affect the environment, and reviews the work o f the sectoral
environmental unitsthat it i s helping to launch.

8. Education. Construction o f school building and sanitary facilities i s not expected to cause
significant adverse impacts. Most impacts are local and can be easily mitigated. The Government
o f Uganda mandates that measures o f the Public Health Act be applied to construction o f school
buildings and other public works. The Bank needs to ensure that the Government's standard
requirement for school construction meet the Bank's requirements and policies.

9. Health. Concerns include construction activities as well as overall health care waste
management. Environmental risks are associated with hazardous medical waste materials,
including possible infection from HIVIAIDS through used needles and blood waste; building
health clinics and hospitals; construction o f water supply and sanitation facilities.21The Ministry
o f Health has identified the Health Sector Strategic Plan to address the handling, storage and
disposal o f H C W at all levels o f the national health care delivery system. This includes
development o f a management strategy, guidance, and human resources development.22 Such
measures address various sanitation and waste issues, including the handling, storing and
disposinghazardous medical wastes.

 10. Water and sanitation. Inthe water and sanitation sector, the focus o f the PRSC operationi s to
promote systematic reforms in the sector in order to ensure sustained access to safe drinking
water and sanitation services and in particular, expand services to those who currently do not
have or cannot afford such services. Under PRSC1, strategies were implemented to initiate
nation-wide decentralized planning and management system that enhances community
participation in choosing water and sanitation services as well as increases commitment to
operation and maintenance o f the service. Through the MOWLE, environmental checklists for
both design and operation o f systems have been developed and incorporated into the Planning and
Operational Guidelines for District water supply and sanitation Conditional Grants. This includes
a section covering environmental screening criteria for subproject appraisal and environmental
requirements for contractors. It i s also standard practice inUganda for EIAs to be conducted for
all investments and development projects (including but not limited to donor-supported projects)
using guidelines developed at the sectoral level by the lead agency involved (MOWLE in this
case) and NEMA (in this and other sectors). These guidelines and the environmental screening
checklists were developed in Uganda to be directly compatible with World Bank environmental
 standards. Measures for protection o f water sources will also be refined. The reorganized
Directorate o f Water Development within MOWLE will engage trained staff and experienced
consultants to implement these measures under PRSC4 and carry out annual environmental audits


21 For purposes of this discussion, health care waste includes pharmaceutical, anatomic, radioactive, infectious,
genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, pressurized containers, sharps, and associated contaminated materials following
WHO, Safe Management of Wastesfrom Health-CareActivities, 1999.
22 Ministryo fHealth, Health Sector Strategic Plan, 2000101-2004105, August 2000.

                                                       158

to ensure compliance by local governments. Expanded stakeholder consultation will also be
provided through further training o f staff.

MitigationMeasures

11. Rural development-land tenure. The process o f systematic land demarcation provides an
opportunity for any land tenant`occupant to go through a formalized process of having land
"certified" and then if desired "titled". In general, a landowner can come to agreement on a
settlement where the occupants can purchase the land, with money coming from the Land Fund.
N o resettlement cases are expected in the coming year, but as the implementation o f systematic
demarcation proceeds further, cases may arise. The Prime Minister's Office will continue the
development o f national standards for involuntary resettlement. Like the Bank, the Government i s
committed to ensuring that processes o f involuntary land acquisition leave those affected no
worse o f f than they would otherwise have been. The Bank will continue to explore options to
support the intended updating o f the background and policy work carried out in 1995. To date,
however, it i s noted that the Bank finds that GOUhas not made any progress inimplementing the
resettlement framework.

12. Rural development-agriculture.       Potential adverse impacts associated with the PMA
implementation will be mitigated through the National Agriculture Advisory Services Project
(NAADS) that was approved in January 2001. A number of mitigation practices were identified
inthe NAADS EA.A Pest Management Planwas prepared as part of the EA for NAADS, and it
focuses on ensuring sustainable pest management activities, minimizinghealth and environmental
pesticide risks and strengthened capacity for JPM and pesticide regulatory control.

13. Health. The Health Sector Review endorsed a health care waste management plan in October
2002. National health care waste planning i s covered by the sector strategy.

14. Water Supply and Sanitation. MOWLE has developed environmental screening checklists for
both design and operations, and they are being incorporated into the revised Planning and
Operation Guidelines for District water supply and sanitation conditional grants. IDA will
continue to review the guidelines and the checklists. The checklists identify any potential
environmental, land tenure, and resettlement impacts o fproposed activities, and apply to borehole
drilling for water supply, expanding and improving the existing water supply, latrine, other
sanitation facilities, and wastewater treatment.

PublicDisclosure

15. Consultation and Disclosure. In accordance with the requirements o f the revised disclosure
policy, this annex will be disclosed publicly in-country and at the World Bank Infoshop.
Investments made with support o f the PRSC will be subject to Government policy, which
likewise requires public consultation and for environmental impact statement documents o f
projects with potential adverse impacts on the environment.

InstitutionalCapacityBuilding

16. Environmental Issues and Mitigation Measures. NEMA has the mandate to coordinate,
monitor and supervise all environmental activities. The framework for environmental assessment
and regulation i s based on the National Environment Statute o f 1995. The more recent
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Regulations o f 1998 define in detail the EIA process,
which requires, as appropriate, environmental impact assessments, environmental impact
statements, andor environmental audits for all private and public development projects.
Basically, a system o f EIA and monitoring that identifies adverse environmental impacts i s in
place. On physical cultural property, the Ugandan EIA system includes a stipulation to prevent



                                               159

destruction of cultural heritages, historic sites, and archaeological resources.23NEMA undertakes
the EIA oversight function, but leaves implementation to the relevant line ministries and
departments, In addition, NEMA also develops EIA capacity in sectoral ministries, line-
departments and at the district level through an ongoing investment project financed by IDA.

17. Impact Assessment Institutional Capacity Building. The Government's implementing
agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental management for sectors associated
with PRSC4. The Bank will work with its counterparts in the Government to create a viable
framework in identifying and tracking key issues. Through the IDA-supported Environmental
Management Capacity Building Projects Iand 11, IDA has been assisting NEMA to enhance
environment management in lead agencies, districts and communities,                      in addressing
environmental degradation problems and sustainable resource management.

Monitoring and Supervision

18. Monitoring and Supervision. A monitoring plan to review the Government's EIA procedures
and other relevant regulatory procedures for sectoral activities in the PRSC3 will be developed.
IDA will undertake regular supervision to assure that the Bank's requirements on environment
assessment and resettlement are being complied with, including appropriate involvement o f
specialists.

KeyEnvironment andResettlementIssues andMitigationPlans
19. There are direct and indirect environmental and potential resettlement issues primarily linked
to reforms under the PEAP/PRSP Pillar I11 (Increasing the Ability o f the Poor to Raise their
Incomes) and IV (Improving the Quality o f Life) o f PRSC4. While the types o f activities in each
sector are known, the specific locations and conditions o f activities will only be known as the
implementing agencies execute their budget plans.

RuralDevelopment-Degradation               of Environment and Natural Resources

20. Environmental Degradation. PRSC4 continues to address issues o f environmental
degradation by integrating environmental concerns in all government programs, as part o f the
well established sector wide programming in health, education and water and sanitation, as well
as in modernization of agriculture (Pillar 111). In Uganda, degradation o f the environment and
natural resources i s estimated to range from 4 percent to 12 percent o f GDP.24The agricultural
sector alone i s estimated to be responsible for 86 to 91 percent o f environmental and natural
resources degradation in monetary terms. This takes the form o f deforestation, loss o f natural
habitats, loss o f topsoil, uncontrolled growth o f water hyacinths, pollution o f water bodies, illegal
logging, and bushland burning.

21. Environmental Regulations. The National Environmental Statute o f 1995 (NEMA Statute)
and regulations passed under this statute are the principal safeguards to curb ENR degradation in
Uganda." The Statute also mandated the National Environmental Management Authority to
coordinate, monitor, and supervise policies/programs on environmentalmanagement.

22. This i s done primarily through the Environmental Impact Assessment (EM) process. A large-
scale agricultural project, such as development of cash crops (coffee, tea, oil palm, and sugar
cane), which will affect the environment, i s required to undertake an EIA. The Statute also
promotes conservation in ecologically sensitive areas, such as lakes, wetlands, forests, and
hillside areas. However, for high altitude crops, such as tea and horticultural crops, farming the


23NEMA Statute Supplement, section 50, May 19, 1995.
24Yakobo Moyini andEugeneT Muramira "The Cost ofEnvironmenta1 Degradation and Loss to Uganda'Economy
with Particular Reference to Poverty Eradication"-Final Draft, IUCNUganda, July 2001.
2sThe Water Statute 1995, The Wetland Policy 1995,National Environment WasteManagement Regulations, 1999,
Draft Forestry Act, 2001.

                                                     160

hillsides may be unavoidable. For the ecologically sensitive areas, the following measures are
recommended: use o f appropriate farming methods, curbing o f soil erosion, and protection o f
water catchments. The NEMA Statute prohibits activities that will reclaim and drain the wetlands;
and limits other human activities in the wetlands. Inthe same manner, it also prohibits activities
that will lead to the destruction o f forest and hillsides areas'26

23. Soil and Water Conservation. On farms, soil and water conservation i s a priority. Agricultural
development in Uganda i s constrained by weathered soils whose fertility varies across districts.
There are thirteen districts scattered through the Eastern, Central and Western regions. The
districts with high population density--over 300 persons per sq. km--coincide with good
agricultural potential and highrainfall. Consequently, those are at risk o f soil erosion (e.g., inthe
Jinja district and around Lake Victoria). Currently, the traditional farming systems to restore soil
fertility and land productivity do not keep up with the rate o f soil degradation and population
pressure on land.27

24. Mitigation and Management of ENR impacts. Mitigation and management o f adverse impacts
on natural resources are mainly the responsibility o f NEMA, MOWLE, and MAAIF. The
research and extension advisory services agencies, NARO and NAADS, support those agencies in
managing adverse environmental impacts o f agricultural sector through research and training.
IDA, however, needs to ensure that any PRSC4 activities that will involve large-scale agricultural
development comply with the Bank's policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.0 l),            Natural
Habitats (OP 4.04), and Forestry (OP 4.36). IDA has funded several capacity building initiatives
in Uganda, including current investment support to NARO and NAADS. The agencies are
expected to play important roles with regard to compliance with environmental, resettlement and
other relevant policies inUganda.

RuralDevelopment-Use of Agro-chemicals

25. In 1970, the Pharmacy and DrugAct was enacted inUganda, but it was not until 1989 that an
Agricultural Chemicals Statue came into effect. The manufacture, storage, distribution, trade,
importation and exportation o f pesticides in Uganda are now controlled by the Agricultural
Chemicals Statute (ACS) Number 8 of 1989 and by the Statutory Instrument Supplement No. 23
o f the ACDS Regulations o f 1993. This lead to the creation o f the Agricultural Chemicals Board
consisting o f 13 members that ensure apcultural chemicals are duly registered inthe country and
are used in a manner consistent with the rules made by the state. The Board appoints an
Agricultural Chemicals Technical Committee (ACTC) to advise the Board on such technical
matters and both o f these operations fall under the Ministry o f Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries (MAAIF).

26. Importation and distribution o f pesticides and other agricultural inputs used to be conducted
by Government and its parastatals, but recent privatization initiatives, have seen Government
remove itself from this role including removal o f subsidies for these products. Aligned with this
process was the removal of import taxes on agricultural chemicals, which i s thought to have
increased the availability of pesticides to producers. USAID reports suggest that the number o f
pesticide shops and dealers in the country has remained constant or increased since this change,
suggesting that consumption o f pesticides i s substantial or growing. This i s hard to quantify and
other informed sources regularly indicate that there i s relatively low use o f pesticides throughout
the country by small subsistent farmers.

27. The overall pesticide use inagriculture was estimated at 17 kilograms per hectare o f cropland
in 199628(ranking Uganda as N o 40 inAfrica). The pesticides import in2002 amountedto USD


26 NEMA Statute sections 37,38; and 39-47.
27 Planfor Modernization ofAgriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda.MAAIF Report, 2000.
28 Africa: Environment: Pesticide use, www.nationmaster.codgraph-Tlenvges-useIAFR

                                                    161

7.8 million, and export to USD 69,00029.Most o f the pesticides sold inUganda are imported from
Kenya and may carry a label approved by the Pest Control Products Board o f that country. The
total pesticide market value i s estimated at USD 10million3'.

28. The National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) for Uganda described low or declining soil
fertility in many farming systems o f the country. Pesticides were not mentioned as a problem.
However, the country's crop diversification policy, especially the encouragement o f high value
export crops, i s considered likely to contribute to greater use o f agrochemicals (fertilizers and
pesticides). The NEAP conclusion was that when combined with chemicals used in livestock
industry and pesticides used to protect humans (e.g. tsetse fly control), the total quantity o f
residual chemicals entering the environment i s significant.

29. Registration o f agricultural chemicals, dealers, fumigators and premises i s provided annually
inthe Uganda Gazette, includingtrade name, commonname and firm, and/or propriety. Although
there are good regulations in place, enforcement i s variable. Unregistered pesticides such as
Malathion, Diazinon, Rogor, and sulfur are still being sold without A C B registration. There are
cases o f pesticides being repackaged and sold in smaller amounts without proper labels. Although
the regulation requires sales o f pesticides to be in separate buildings, it i s rare to find this
followed. Lack of staff hinders enforcement; only one person handles registration applications
and the inspection of pesticide premises for the whole country. The Public Service Commission
has still not approved the request for additional staff and district agricultural officers are being
asked to undertake some o f these roles.

30. Other constraints include:
 *        Inadequate monitoring, enforcement and policing mechanisms;
 *        Lack of residue and analytical capacity for purity o f active ingredients, residue on foods,
          and toxicological acceptability;
 t        Lack o f registration o fpesticides for specific use on specific crops;
 t        Lack o f adequate public information on registered pesticides; and
 t        Limitednumber o f registeredpesticides

3 1. Pesticide management. Measures to mitigate potential adverse impacts o f pesticide use will
be taken through the ongoing National Agriculture Advisory Services Project (NAADS) that was
approved in January 2001. The goal of NAADS i s to increase security o f rural livelihoods with
sustainable improvements in agricultural productivity and household incomes through increasing
commercialization o f farming. The project aims to transform the existing public extension service
to a decentralized, largely farmer-owned and private sector advisory service. As o f early 2003,
N A A D S was operational in 16 Districts, with the process o f expanding its programs to more
districts slower than originally intended. There i s an expectation that the good practice in crop
production will eventually expand to most o f the country. As a category B project, its EA was
prepared inJuly 2000, and a Pest ManagementPlan in September 2000.

32. Although ago-chemical use i s relatively low in the country, N A A D S i s facilitating
intensification o f smallholder agricultural production systems, potentially increasing the use o f
fertilizers and other agrochemicals. Mitigationpractices identified inthe N A A D S EA include:

     Training o f input suppliers in precautionary measures required for the handling, labeling and
application o f agrochemicals under field conditions. These measures will include advise on
pesticide stock management procedures and record keeping practices; pesticide storage, use o f
protective equipment; use and cleaning of application equipment; and emergency plans in
response to spillage and/or contamination.


29Source: FAOSTATDatabase
30Steven Matovu, personal communication

                                                 162

    Training o f farmers and service providers inuse and handling o f agrochemicals.

    Promotion o f reduced input production systems and avoidance o f the use o f pesticides
whenever practicable by using alternative pest management methods, including best mix o f
biological or cultural controls.

33. The N A A D S Executive i s responsible for environmental monitoring and evaluation by
specifying in the contracts the obligations and environmental mitigation measures to be taken by
the contractor. Each contractor will be responsible for ensuring that monitoring and record
keeping conform with environmental obligations by presenting written records for inspection to
the N A A D S Executive and/or designated alternatives at local government level.

34. Pest Management Plan. The Pest Management Plan prepared for N A A D S focuses on
ensuring sustainable pest management activities, minimizing health and environmental pesticide
risks and strengthened capacity for integrated pest management and pesticide regulatory control.
The plan summarizes the current status o f pesticide use in the country, pest management
approaches for specific crops (i.e., cotton, vegetables, bananas), integrated pest management
experiences, and farmer training in integrated pest management. It indicates that information on
the use o f pesticides i s limited, farmer application o f pesticides might lack proper dosage, mixing
procedures are varied and observation o f safety requirements questionable. However, the
National Union o f Plantation and Agricultural Workers has since then initiated training activities
on safe handling o f pesticides.

35. Pesticide registration came into effect in 1994and to date 233 chemicals have been registered
following FA0 Code o f Conduct and PIC mechanisms are observed. Traders are registered and
licensed while large-scale importers must acquire a certification for handling and transport and
their personnel undergo training for safe pesticide handling. In addition, these importers must
have their facilities meet certain specifications     and general safety requirements. Commercial
operators have to be certified to ensure safe chemical use.

36. Statistics concerningpesticide poisoning are not available, the capacity for analysis o f in situ
residues i s limited, and there i s no systematic monitoring for residue levels. The capacity to
monitor pesticide use and storage and enforcement o f regulations i s also limited. Research on
integratedpest management i s on going as part of the strategy inthe agriculture sector to enhance
farmer productivity. In general, there i s farmer awareness on holistic management that addresses
soil and water management as well as integrated pest management. This consists o f farmer pilot
training and extension capacity buildingincrop ecology.

37. The plan identifies the following mitigatory measures:

    Crop management training for service providers and farmers including integrated approaches
to soil, water, plant and nutritional management and integrated pest management;

    Improving integrated pest management skills for service providers;

    Ensuring that service providers with experience in integrated production and pest
management at the district level i s expanded;

    Observing integrated pest management approaches if pesticides are used as part of
demonstration activities; and

    Ensuringthat pesticides use is in compliance with existing laws and regulations, particularly
MUSfor commercialexport crops.

38. Also, the plan recommends the following monitoring and evaluation measures to be taken
through NAADS:

    Training activities on integrated management for service providers and farmers;


                                                 163

    The knowledge and skills acquired by farmers;

     Compliance on pesticide use; and

    Pest management approaches by service providers and farmers.

39. NAADS Policy and Strategy. The NAADS draft (October 2002) policy and strategy
framework for natural resources cover a wide array o f issues and challenges, including
agrochemical use and EIAs.Key challenges are listedinTable 2 below.

40. Annex 5 Table 2: Key NaturalResourceManagementChallenges for NAADS
                                                                            .
                ~~        ~    ~
Issue                            Key Challengesfor NAADS
Agrochemical Use                    Promoting appropriate use of agrochemicals as part o f integrated farm
                                    management
                                    Quality assuring private service provider advice on agrochemicals (e.g.
                                    regulations, appropriate use, health and safety, etc.)
                                    Promoting altematives to high agrochemical use
Environmental impact                Clarification o f what agricultural activities require EISs
assessments                         Updating EINSIA o f NAADS
                                    Training and informationprovision on EIA issues for service providers
                                  ,

Sustainable Agriculture             Capitalizing on current practices o f sustainable agriculture and low
                                    agrochemical use



41. Specific actions that are identified under advisory and information services dealing with
pesticides include:

     Sewiceprovider contracts: clauses in contracts that require adherence to N A A D S principles
and guidelines on what natural resources-specific clauses should be included in particular
contracts (e.g., on use o f agrochemicals, requirements for EMS,environmental impacts o f certain
enterprises, e.g., floriculture).

     Production of guidelines and criteria: production o f environmental guidelines, checklists etc.
for service providers, ensuring that guidelines highlight the need to include natural resources-
related issues and requirements, guidelines and checklists for including natural resource issues in
planning and outputs.

42. The PRSC Team, in collaboration with NAADS, undertook a more detailed analysis o f
pesticide use inthe country and provided the following recommendations:

     Introduction of more stringent restrictions in availability of pesticides to farmers and the
general public based on the end users' level o f awareness and training

     Revision o f current labeling requirements for pesticide products to sensitize illiterate people
o f hazards and concurrent need for personal protection

     Establishment o f a national clearing-house for integrated pest management to avoid
duplication of work and to better identify and fill gaps in integrated pest management research,
education and training
.    Inclusion o f requirements for integrated pest management and judicious use o f pesticides in
N A A D S contract specifications for advisory service providers and input suppliers

     Retraining o f de-layered extension staff in"Facilitator Field Schools"

     Official recognition o f organic farming as a viable option for improved livelihoods, and
concurrent need for improved infrastructure

     Strengthening o f national pesticide control and enforcement functions through establishment
o f a 'National Pesticide Control Authority' (copied on the National DrugAuthority)


                                                   164

     Establishment o f a system-wide approach for judicious use o f pesticides.

43. These recommendations have been discussed with the N A A D S program and are in the
process o f refinement for added focus inthe near future.

44. PMA Sub-committee on Natural Resources. A PMA sub-committee on natural resource
management has been established to ensure that the vision for environmental sustainability as
outlined in the PMA i s achieved. This group consists o f members o f all agencies and
organizations dealing with PMA issues related to natural resources in a broad sense and has a
terms o f reference to report on the progress o f each o f its organizations inmeeting the goals o f the
PMA. The committee has recently issued a proposal to monitor and review sustainable natural
resource use and management inthe PMA inover a dozen thematic areas. Under the PMA, focus
i s on environmental issues that fall under research related to the environment-integrated         pest
management and pesticide use-with         NARO, Makerere University, NEMA, and U N B S as lead
agencies.

45. PMA Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. The overall PMA monitoring and evaluation
framework i s designed to monitor inputs, outputs, and outcomes through performance,
beneficiary, and impact assessment o f the seven PMA components. The current fi-amework does
not include indicators on pesticide use nor management, but includes an output indicator focusing
on environmental guidelines for sectoral plans and programs that i s related to pesticides.
However, a set o f environmentalindicators related to integrated natural resource management and
agrochemical use has been further developed by environment and safeguard specialists, and the
plan i s to integrate these into the overall P M A M&E fi-amework. The indicators are designed to
provide qualitative information to verify World Bank pesticide safeguards are adhered to and will
also linkto the N A A D S supervision activities.

46. World Bank Supervision. The NAADS project i s still in its early stages o f implementation
and the World Bank Task Manager has reiterated her intention to ensure that the pesticide issues
as identified in the N A A D S EA and PMP will be supervised. This will take the form o f using
pesticide specialists to verify, in the field, that proper measures are being undertaken and review
the chemical registration process. During PRSC4 the Bank will also explore mechanisms to
introduce specific analytical work covering the pesticides theme as part o f the PRSCNAADS
nexus.

RuralDevelopment-Land Tenure
47. The Land Act passed in 1998 provides for regularizing land tenure under mailo, freehold and
customary tenure regimes. The Land Sector Strategic Plan prioritizes implementation o f the Act,
and forms the basis for the National Land Policy, capacity building for land administration, and
implementation of three pilots on land consolidation and land readjustment in Soroti, Masaka,
and Ntungamo. Pilots will provide an opportunity for any land tenandoccupant to go through a
formalized process o f having land "certified" and then if desired "titled". Ingeneral, a landowner
(who may or may not have a title-the         land registry has degraded over the past 20 years) can
come to agreement on a settlement where the occupants can purchase the land. Discussions have
continued for the past year on mechanisms for the Land Fundto provide some o f these financial
resources to assist inland purchase, but the details are still to be worked out.

48. Under the Land Policy, two kinds o f land adjudicationprocesses may be undertaken, The first
i s a process that addresses poverty by moving toward security o f tenure under modem
mechanisms that will allow land to be used as security for land improvement finance and other
purposes. It i s based on a process for individuals to address matters pertaining to land occupancy
and ownership that i s being gradually established at the district levels. No resettlement i s
expected in the pilot areas, since occupants and tenants will acquire certificates through the
demarcation and adjudication process. Ifpeople have occupied land for an extended period, they
will not be requiredto move.


                                                 165

49. Another process the Land Commission may choose to implement i s sorting out historic
claims of major land areas disputed by various ethnic groups, which may also include lands
administeredby districts with residents belonging, by affiliation, to a chief or king. For example,
inKibale district, the Land Commission is currently sorting out land occupancy between several
ethnic/tribal groups, and the Land Fund i s being used to provide payments for demarcation and
settlement o f tenants and occupants. Some resettlement may at later point take place inthis region
since some people, if inappropriately occupying land, could be required to leave after
adjudication. The Bank will continue its dialogue with appropriate authorities to encourage the
use of the LandFundfor settling land tenure issues other than historic ethnic claims.

50. A National Policy on Resettlement was drafted in 1995 and its implementation rests with the
Prime Minister's office. The Bank currently has no project in the land sector addressing these
matters, but the Government has recently asked the Bank to engage in discussions and technical
assistance with the resettlement policy again. The Bank intends to continue its discussions with
these authorities to move the Resettlement Policy forward and will use the PRSC4 to undertake
additional analytical and policy work. The Bank has communicated to the Ministry and Land
Commission that if individuals are required to move off currently occupied lands or resettle as
part o f the LSSP process, appropriate Resettlement Action Plans or Frameworks will have to be
completed.

RuralDevelopment-District RoadWork

51. District and Rural Roads. Agricultural marketing in Uganda i s constrained by the poor
quality o f the road network. More than 90 percent o f Uganda's road network consists o f earth and
gravel roads and 25 percent o f the rural roads in the districts are impassable during the rainy
season.31 During PRSC4, a program o f district and community roads will be begun. This
program will runparallel to andbe guidedby the principles o f outsourcing and the environmental
regulatory frameworks in the long-term Roads Program (APLs 1-4) currently under
implementation in Uganda. In parallel with this national program, the Ministry o f Works,
Housing and Communication (MOWHC) has initiated a sectoral Environmental Liaison Unit in
charge o f promoting, developing, and disseminating guidance in environmental issues, and the
training o f transport staff inparticular. This work i s consistent with the national mandate that lead
agencies shouldbuildup their own environmentalregulatory capabilities, to carry out the work in
environment that they need to do in liaison with NEMA. In any case, the vast majority o f the
work to be carried out in the PRSC will involve stabilizing and reconstruction o f existing minor
roads at the community and district level, with no changes o f alignments, widening, or hard
surfacing. Thus, no environmental or land acquisition issues will arise, except for minor drainage
and maintenance works. Appropriate environmental measures are already built in to the district
roads crews' standard operating procedures.

Education-School BuildingConstruction
52. School Building Construction. N o significant environmental impact is expected from school
construction. Minor impacts are associated with physical activities such as construction of
classroom, dormitories, latrine and other facilities. The activities are regulated by the Government
inthe Public Health Act (sections 72 and 73). Standard requirements for classroom construction
include approved lists o f materials, location o f latrines with washing facilities and safe drinking
water. The Bank needs to ensure that the Government's standard requirement for school
construction meets the Bank's requirement and policies.

Health--Disposalof HealthCareWaste inHealthUnits,HealthCenters andHospitals




3'Planfor Modernizationo f Agriculture, EradicatingPovertyinUganda.MAAIF Report, 2000.

                                                   166

53. Health Care Waste. Uganda i s committed in its policies to ensure that no harm comes to
people from the management o f health care wastes or from gaps in sanitary facilities at health
care institutions. To date, it i s difficult to assess the general status o f sanitation and medical waste
at health facilities in Uganda because o f limited data. Generally there i s a need for significant
improvement inboth areas. The following are the Ugandan problems inhealth care wastes:
.   Pharmaceutical waste includes drugs and chemicals that are outdated, contaminated, spilled
or no longer required.

    Radioactive waste includes solids, liquids and gaseous radionuclides generated from in vitro
analysis o f body tissues and fluids, in vivo body imaging and tumor localization and therapeutic
procedures.

    Anatomic or pathological waste consists o f human and animal tissues, organs, body parts,
fetuses, blood and body fluids.

    Sharps comprise needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, broken glass and other puncture inducing
items.

    Infectious waste that can transmit infectious disease with pathogen concentrations and
quantities o f that are o f concem for exposure originate in laboratories, infectious patient wastes,
surgery and autopsies.

    Other wastes of concem include genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, and pressurized
containers.

    Communal/domestic type material such as packaging, paper and plastic products and other
organic material.

54. Health Care WasteStvategv. Strategy for health care waste management was drafted through
dialogue with the appropriate decision-making and national a~thorities.~'The national health care
wastes planning process led by a task force that includes representatives from all the relevant
ministries. The proposed national health care wastes policy and strategy includes:

     Strategy for proper health care wastes management and disposal.

    Preventionand reduction o f waste generation.

    Means o f monitoring o f infection control and environmental protection.

    U s e o f appropriate technology for packaging, transportation, treatment, and disposal.

     Central or decentralized treatment and disposal.

    Distribution o fresponsibility inthe sector betweennational and local govemments.

    Recommendations on private sector involvement.

     Investmentplan for implementationo f improved health care wastes management.

     Mechanisms for financing health care waste management.

     Health care wastes management training programs at facility and municipal/district level.

 55. Health Cave WasteManagement by Type of Facility. Specific health care wastes management
considerations relatedto the key health care facilities inUganda are outlined inTable 3.

Annex 5 Table 3: Considerations for Health Care Waste Management at Small and Large
Health Care Facilities




32Draft Policy and Strategy on Sanitation and Healthcare Waste Disposal at Health Facilities, September 2001.

                                                      167

  Small facilities                                        Large facilities


  Raise awareness at the management level.                Raise awareness.
  Develop an integrated health care wastes                Ensure special health care wastes is segregated
    management plan.                                        from other waste.
  Ensure segregation of special health care               Determine appropriate treatment technology.
  wastes from other waste.                                Consider facility-based vs. centralized waste
  Determine appropriate treatment and disposal            treatment and disposal options.
  site for facility.                                      Ensure proper packaging and storage of special

  Train health care workers in proper health              health care waste.

  care wastes procedures.                                 Ensure safe transport of special health care
                                                            wastes.
                                                          Develop a health care wastes management plan
                                                            for facility.
                                                          Train health care workers in health care wastes
                                                          management procedures.
                                                          Address scavenaina issues.


Water Supply and Sanitation

56. Water Sector Standards and Guidelines. Currently, all water supply and wastewater projects
will have to meet existing national environmental standards and water sector g~idelines.In~                  ~
addition, all larger village and urban potable water supply and distribution systems and
wastewater proposals (covering population clusters o f above 5,000 people) submitted to the
DWD will undergo a prescribed EIAprocess that includes the following information:

    Descriptiono f the project and identification o f all phases;

    Descriptiono f the proposed site and reasons for rejecting alternative sites;

    Environmental effects o f the project, including direct, indirect, cumulative short-term and
long-term effects and possible alternatives;

    Measures proposedfor eliminating, minimizing or mitigating adverse impacts; and
    A monitoring and evaluation program.
57. Water Supply Regulations. Regulations concerning water supply fall under the Water
Resources Regulations o f 1998. They specify particular requirements for (i)            any water extraction
by motorized water pump that temporarily or permanently pumps water from a borehole or
waterway and (ii)    weir, dam, tank, or other work capable o f diverting or impounding an inflow o f
more than 400 cubic meters in any 24-hour period. Furthermore, both drilling and construction
permit requirements include submission o f standard application forms. Since DWD i s the
delegated NEMA agency, all EIA and technical requirements are managed by DWD, specifically
in the Water Resources Division. Basedon these standards, guidelines and current practices, the
EIAprocessinthe sector is characterizedbythe features highlighted inTable 4.

Annex 5 Table 4: Key Elements of the Environmental Impact AssessmentProcess for Water and
Sanitation Projects:Designand Construction

    Objective                                               Responsible Party



33Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, Water Supply Design Manual, 2000; RUWASA, Environmental
Guidelines and Code of Conduct; RUWASA, Guidelines for Assessing the Risk to Groundwater          from On-site
Sanitation; RUWASA, Shallow Wells Information Booklet, 1999; Eastem Centers Water and Sanitation Project,
Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Pit Latrine Systems, 2000; Eastem Centers Water and Sanitation
Project, Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Human Excreta Disposal, 2000; RUWASA, Socio
Technical Manualfor Siting, 2000; EastemCentersWater and SanitationProject,Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation
Transformation, 2000.

                                                   168

I         Ensure that environmental issues are             District water supply and sanitation Units
          considered as part of design.                    DWDWater Resources Division and Technical
          Ensure that environmental impacts are            Support Units
          reduced or minimized at site.                    Commissioned Consultants and Contractors
          Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders

     Actions
          Review the current environmental condition at    Veri3cation
          the site.                                        Subproject appraisal by District water supply and
          Assess the potential environmental impact        sanitation Units
          associated with the proposed scheme.             Environmental Impact Statement for large projects
          Identify mitigation measures in construction     Independent Environmental audit within a period
          and operation.                                   o f 12 months after completion o f project
                                                           DWDinspections



58. Protection of Water Sources, Drinking Water Standards and Sanitay Conditions. There are
several types of small-scale rural water supply schemes in the country: shallow wells, boreholes,
protected natural spring water points and borehole pump and distribution systems. Most o f the
environmental considerations for water supply schemes involve avoiding water contamination.
Measures are considered to ensure initially good water quality. During operation o f the system,
measures are taken to prevent contamination from agricultural activities, grazing animals, and
human contamination. Borehole construction in alluvial areas with intense sugar cane production
i s o f potential concern because o f concentrated pesticide treatments. Testing o f the water supply
should be performedregularly to detect any contamination to the system, and this should be done
inconjunction withperiodic chlorine treatment under certain circumstances. Also, propertraining
o f technicians i s critical to ensure that adequate maintenance occurs for both the single source and
network water systems. The MOWLE has developed environmental screening checklists for both
design and operations, that have been incorporated into the revised Planning and Operation
Guidelines for District water supply and sanitation Conditional grants. IDA has reviewed the
guidelines and the checklists for compatibility with OP 4.01 during Appraisal o f PRSC4. These
checklists identify any potential environmental, land tenure, and resettlement impacts o f proposed
activities. These checklists apply to borehole drilling for water supply, expanding and improving
the existing water supply, latrine, other sanitation facilities, and wastewater treatment. The efforts
o f the DWD in "mainstreaming" these guidelines are still behind schedule. The Bank PRSC and
water sector staff will continue to work with these counterparts to expand utility o f these
sustainable development tools.

59. Water Distribution. The PRSC will be used mainly to extend focus on rural water supply for
the poor. DWD and other water delivery programs incorporate standard water quality analysis to
assess potential point water sources. Post-construction water quality monitoring i s also
undertaken. Data collection and reporting procedures are regularly undertaken, yet such data i s
not fully utilized. For example, monthly water quality reports for one district showed highlevels
o f nitrates among numerous spring point sources, yet no one had determined possible causes.
Improved data analysis at the regional and national level as the delivery o f potable water i s
expanded will become more important to identify potential environmental and human health
concerns. Other issues including access to drinking water and sanitation services as well as
resettlement requirements for the larger construction schemes will be summarized in a standard
report summary.

PublicDisclosure
60. Disclosure. PRSC4 has been categorized as a B (without a separate EA) under OP 4.01. The
requirements o f the Bank's revised disclosure policy for Category B projects apply for those
appraised after January 1, 2002. The Bank's policy also requires public consultations and
disclosure for activities with potential adverse impacts on the environment in sectors supported


                                                       169

by PRSC that will occur in the future. The requirements include discussions o f the project's
potential environmental impact with the project affected groups and local NGOs, and take their
views into account.34 Similarly, the Government mandates public consultation, stakeholders'
involvement, and information disclosure o f project with potential adverse impacts on the
environment through the EIA process. Public consultation with local NGOs and affected people
has been the normal pattern within Bank assisted-projects in Uganda, and non-Bank projects
under NEMA-led EIA procedures, for several years. Some stakeholders feel that the consultation
could be improved by a better selection o f NGOs, and by following through more proactively on
stakeholder feedback duringproject implementati~n.~~

61, Outreach in Water and Sanitation Programs. Poor communities may have little opportunity
to learn about programs designed to help them. In the case o f a water and sanitation project,
DWD uses mobilizers, staff trained in social work, to undertake community outreach programs
and conduct community consultations. These staff also engage in sanitation and health
promotional programs. It i s common practice now for DWD to assist in organizing water
committees that identify the type o f water system they want and are willing to pay for and
procedures for operating and maintaining the water supply facilities. Innumerous cases, access to
water i s controlled at public standpipes by an approved operator who i s entitled to charge for
water and i s also responsible for paying monthly-metered water bills. Restricting hours o f
operation, reduction in the number o f faucets and social conflicts regularly occur. Practical
mechanisms to quickly identify such problems and engage in conflict resolution are required to
ensure that water i s available.

62. Local Level Consultation. The purposes o f public consultation include both the spread o f
information and the incorporation o f local knowledge and perspectives into development projects.
Supported by donor advice and resources, for example, the Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable
Forest Conservation Trust (MBIFCT) was formed to conserve the Mgahinga and Bwindi forests
through a consultative and participatory approaches driven by the local communities. Donors
alone do not drive participatory development. In Uganda, the degree o f openness and
inclusiveness in the local political process helps condition the support for consultations and
participation. Ugandan local level councils have been very vocal for at least a decade, and so
there i s an inbuilt mechanism for projects to get and incorporate local feedback. As district
government becomes a better-performing, more powerful process at a level just above the
community, some observers see the potential for weakening the individual community inputsinto
governance. District government will have to find a way to continue the sense o f participatory
"ownership" by communities as more resource decisions are made at the district level.


Institutional Capacity Buildingfor Impact Assessment
63. NEMA's Mandate. InUganda, NEMA has the mandate to co-ordinate, monitor and supervise
all environmental activities. NEMA leads an oversight function on EIA but leaves its
implementation to the relevant line ministries and departments. In practice, NEMA i s the focal
institution and the EIA has become a primary tool for safeguarding the environment fi-om the
adverse impacts o f development activities inUganda. To further the effort, NEMA has developed
EL4 guidelines (including public hearing guidelines), code o f conduct for EIA practitioners,
regulations for appointing inspectors, and environmental easements. From January 1996 to
September 2001, a total o f 286 projects were subjected to EIA; 3 14projects received certificates;
9 environmental audits were conducted; 15 projects were stopped. Supported by IDA-funding
through the EMCBP credits, NEMA also builds EIA capacity in sectoral ministries, departments,
and at the district levels. NEMA also assists districts to establish and strengthen the statutory
management institutions and ensure adequate community inputs into district environmental


34OP 4.01, para 15.
35Conversationwith Mr.KivoumbiofNGO EnvironmentalAlert inKampala,October 2001.

                                              170

planning and management. Since 1996,41 out o f 56 districts have recruited District Environment
Officers  (DEOs). In addition, NEMA has helped to recruit 54 environment inspectors. To
enhance NEMA capacity, the Bank approved the Second Environmental Management and
Capacity BuildingProject (EMCBP-11) inFebruary 2001.

64. NEMA'S Capacity in Relation to PRSC4. Currently, NEMA is, and has been, largely donor-
funded. This i s a risky situation that creates uncertainty about the sustainability o f its programs.
At the district level, similarly, resources and fundingto recruit personnel and to make the DEOs
operational are inadequate. This lack o f capacity undermines full integration o f environmental
concerns at local government and community levels. Several ways to improve environmental
management could be mainstreamed within the framework o f PRSC4: (i)improving the
effectiveness   o f the institutional arrangements to address environmental concerns across
government programs; (ii)integrating environmental risks and opportunities into districts and
municipal government development plans, and taking steps to implement the management plans;
(iii)implementing sectoral environmental policies (such as pest management, agricultural
chemicals, medical waste, forest conservation, etc.); and (iv) ensuring that funding for NEMA i s
reflected more in the government budget. At the district and community levels, planning and
decision-malungrequire the appropriate measures to conserve water, soil, and forests, to keep the
human environment healthy; and to ensure that more intensive development in rural and urban
areas does not introduce unmanaged dangers o f environmental degradation, displacement, or
tenure conflict. Key to supporting these efforts i s continually improving human resources in
environmental management through institutional capacity building and training. NEMA, under
IDA-assistedproject, has been buildingcapacity within the sectoral ministries/lead agencies.


Monitoring and Supervision
65. Environmental and Land Acquisition/Resettlement Monitoring Plan. Monitoring plans are
needed to ensure that adverse environmental impacts are addressed and any land acquisition and
resettlement are adequately implemented and sustained in each o f the key sectors that the PRSC
will support. The NEMA statute indicates that "the lead agencies should monitor compliance and
implementation o f activities to ensure that the design criteria, mitigation measures, and
monitoring plans are implemented, the monitoring plan should also identify the key indicators of
environmental impacts.'' A simple and practical array o f potential monitoring indicators i s
provided below inTable 4.

66. Relationship of Monitoring Plan to PRSC4 Monitoring. The monitoring plan for environment
and land acquisitiodresettlement will be incorporated into the overall PRSC4 monitoring plan
described in the Grant documentation and overseen by the MOFPED. Consequently, MOFPED
will be the ultimate information focal point. The relevant sector will be responsible for submitting
appropriate information as described below to the PRSC Steering Committee and PRSC
Technical Committee. The PRSC Steering Committee will provide a report to IDA on the issues
addressed inthis Annex on an annual basis. This report will be expanded as additional sectors are
added to the subsequent annual programs.

67. PRSC Preparation and Appraisal. Inpreparing subsequent PRSCs, IDA continues to include
participation o f environmental and resettlement specialists. These specialists review progress in
implementing the Environmental Monitoring Plan. The specialists coordinate with other IDA
staff inthe relevant sectors to ensure that appropriate environmental assessment, resettlement, and
other relevant policy issues are addressed and any consequent management plans are being
implemented. Where additional capacity building i s needed, the PRSC team will work with the
selected sector agencies to develop such initiatives. The missions will review the performance of
sectoral procedures and progress in increasing awareness o f and appropriate measures for
environmental and other concerns as detailed inthis analysis.



                                                171

Annex 5 Table 5: Indicative Monitoring Plan by Sector

  Sector and Issues       Monitoring Indicators           Responsibility          Information Collection
                                                                                       Process and
                                                                                       Frequency
AgricuIturelRural
Development Sector:

Natural Resource         ElAs are prepared by        NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,          Annual recordslsurvey
Degradation in Large-    investors and reviewed      NARO, PMA Steering
Scale Agricultural       (by NEMA);                  Committee, and districts.
Projects                 management plan is          Districts are responsible
                         integrated into project     for implementing
                         implementation              programs an,d projects.
                                                     Activities like training for
                         Restriction on the use of   service providers, waste
                         ecologically sensitive      management, etc., have
                         areas, forest, wetlands,    to take place in the
                         etc.                        districts
Soil conservation in
SmalIholder AgricuIture  Improved soil and water
                         conservation; judicious
                         application of agricultural
                         inputs
Increasing Quantities of PMP is designed,            NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,          Annual recordslsurvey
Agro-Chemicals used by   ensure that pesticides      NARO, PMA Steering
Agricultural Activities  are used in accordance      Committee, districts (see
                         with integrated pest        above discussion on the
                         management principles       districts), and NBS.
                                                     Capacity building for
                         Training for service        community and farmer
                         providers, farmers, and     level monitoring
                         stockmen to understand
                         potential risks and
                         hazards of pesticides on
                         health and environment
Agro-chemicals used by
Small Holder Agriculture Maximum residue level
                         is observed particularly
                         for commercial crops
                         Training for appropriate
                         storage, handling, and
                         application of
                         agrochemicals

Waste and effluent from  Waste management and         In addition to the above
Agro Processing          environmental audit for      authorities: selected
                         selected agro                private sectors
                         processing facilities
                                                      Land Commission
Resettlement             Reports of any
                         resettlement actions
                         based on Land Tribunals
                         or Land Fund
                         expenditures
District Roads:           Policy and                  MOWHC and Districts          Annual Review
                         implementation
                         arrangements, including
                         related environmental
                         guidelines, for road
                         construction and
                          maintenance works

                                                 172

  Sector andIssues       MonitoringIndicators          Responsibility        InformationCollection
                                                                                  Process and
                                                                                  Frequency
                        developed and adopted
                        Improvementof
                        institutionalcapacityfor
                        transportationand
                        environmental
                        management,including
                        training for staff and
                        contractors.
Health Sector: Health   EIA or Environmental      MOH, Environmental
Care Waste              Reviewfor construction    Health Division, NEMA
                        of newfacilities          (for review of EIAs),
                                                  district health inspectors
                        Environmental
                        guidelineslchecklist are
                        prepared and used in
                        operation stage

                        Conduct
                        selectivelrandom
                        environmental audits for
                        HCW facilities

                        Awareness training
                        incorporated into health
                        care professional and
                        technical curriculum

Waste Supply and        EIA or Environmental      DWDWater Resources         Annual ReviewlSurvey
Sanitation Sector       Reviewfor urban large     Divisionand Technical
(wastewater treatment,  scale construction of     Support Units at district
sanitation facilities,  newfacilities             level, other water supply
and water supply and                              and sanitation
distribution)           Environmental             Authorities, NEMA (for
                        guidelineslchecklist are  review of EIAs)
                        prepared and used in
                        operation stage

                        Conduct
                        selectivelrandom
                        environmental auditsfor
                        water supply and
                        sanitation facilities

                        Awareness training
                        incorporated for water
                        supply and sanitation
                        professionals




                                               173

                   Annex 6: Ugandaandthe MillenniumDevelopmentGoals

                                                         1992  1995 1997 2000  2003
Goal 1. Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
1.Headcount poverty (%)                                  55.7  49.1 44.4 35.2    38
2. Poverty gap ratio (%)                                 20.3  16.4 13.7 10.5
3. Share o fpoorest quintile innational consumpt. (%)      9.4    - 10.1  9.3
4. Under-weight children (weight-for-age)                    - 25.5    - 22.5    23
5. Headcount food poverty (%)                             35.5    - 24.8 17.6

Goal 2. Achieve UPE
6. Net primary enrollment (%)                             62.3    - 83.8 76.5    86
7. Completion o fprimary grade 4 (%)                                         - 66.6
8. Literacy rate of 15-24year olds (%)                       - 74.8    - 78.8  80.9

Goal 3. Promote gender equality and empower
women
9a. Ratio o f girls to boys, primary enrollment (%)        93     -   97   99    99
9b.Ratio o fgirls to boys, secondary enrollment (%)          -   67        79    86
9c. Ratio o f girls to boys, tertiary enrollment (%)                             82
10. Ratio o f literate females to males (15-24 year) (%)     - 80.3    - 84.3    86
11. Women innon-agricultural wage employment (%)                       - 21.2
12.Proportion o f female MPs (%)                             - 17.9    - 19.0

Goal 4. Reduce child mortality
13. Infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births              - 81.3    - 88.4    77
14.Under-5 mortality rate per 1,000 live births              -  147    -  152   124
15. Measles immunization (under-1) (%)                       - 45.2    - 42.3

Goal 5. Improve maternal health
16. Maternal mortality rate (per 100,000 live births)        -  527    -  505
17.Births supervised by trained personnel (%)             38.0 37.8    - 39.0

Goal 6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other
diseases
18.Antenatal HIV/AIDS prevalence (%)                       20    14    -   6.1
19. Contraceptive prevalence rate (%)                            15        23
20. HIV/AIDS orphans (thousand)                                        -  884
21.Prevalence and death rates associated with malaria
22. Populationusing malaria prevention and treatment
23. Incidence o f TB (per 100,000 people)                              - 343.0
24. Proportiono f TB cases detected under DOTS (%)                         59

Goal 7. Ensure environmental sustainability
25. Land area covered by forest (%)                                    -  21.3
26. Land area protected (%)                                  -  9.6    -   9.6
27. GDP per unit o f energy use
28. Carbon dioxide emissions (PPP$ per k g oil equiv.)       -  0.0    -   0.1
29a. Access to improved water source, rural (%)           26.6 39.4 42.6   52
29b. Access to improved water source, urban (%)                            62
30. Access to improve sanitation, rural (%)                                51
3 1. Access to secure tenure (%)




                                                    174

                                               Annex 7: Uganda at a Glance

                                       Uganda at a glance                                                                         8/4/04


                                                                      Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   Saharan        Low-
                                                          Uganda      Africa     income       Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population.mid-year(millions)                                 25.5      689        2,495                    Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             240      450         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               6.2      311        1,070

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population(%)                                                  3.7       2.4         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                 2.5       2.5         2.3      GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                              per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                         capita
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)               38
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                           16        33          31    I
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                  42        46          59
Infantmortality(per 1,000live births)                           88      103           79
Child malnutrition(% ofchildren under5)                         38                    42            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)              55        58          76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                              69        37          37
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-age population)            127        87          94                     Uganda

    Male                                                       130        94         100                      Low-Income w o w
    Female                                                     125        80          88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                              1993     2002        2003
                                                                                               Economicratios.
GDP (US$ biliions)                                             3.2       5.8         6.3
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                                  15.2    20.0         20.7                         Trade
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                               7.1      12.1        12.3
Grossdomestic savingdGDP                                        1.1      5.9         6.9
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                       3.0     13.0         14.1                          T
Currentaccount balance/GDP                                    -12.3    -14.3         -5.6
Interestpayments/GDP                                            1.6      0.2         0.2       savings
Total debVGDP                                                  81.9     49.1        43.6
Total debt service/exwrts                                      72.5     22.0        20.6
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                      41.O      19.9         18.2
Presentvalue of debffexports                                 545.2    158.3        144.0
                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                     1683-93 1993-03          2002     2003      2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       4.5       6.7         6.8      4.7          5.7              1-1= -a Uganda
GDP per capita                             1.6      3.0         1.o       1.8         2.0                      Low-income9rouD
Exportsof goodsand services               2.3      14.4        26.0     -3.3          4.8



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                              1993     2002         2003
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                    51.5     31.5         32.4
industry                                                       13.1     20.2         21.2
   Manufacturing                                                6.0     10.1          9.3
Services                                                       35.4     48.3         46.4

Privateconsumption                                             89.1     78.5         75.0
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                    9.8     15.7         15.2                        GDi     +GDP            I
Importsof goods and services                                   21.2     26.9         26.4


                                                1983-93 1993-03        2002         2003     1 Growth of exports and imports (Oh)
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                         3.5         3.9       3.9         2 3      eo
Industry                                            7.4        11.0       7.9         7 2      eo
    Manufacturing                                   7.0        11.6       5.3         4 0      40

Services                                            5.4         7.6       8.0                  ':
                                                                                      6 3

Privateconsumption                                  4.1         6.2       6.2         3 0     -20
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        3.5         6.5       4.6
Grossdomestic investment                            7.0         7.5       9.9        10 0               *= *-  Exports   -O'imports
Importsof goods and services                        2.6         9.4     18.2         -2 3


Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.Group data are for 2002.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                   175

                                                                                                            Uaandu

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1993    2002   2003
Domestic prices                                                      Inflation(%)

(% change)                                                           l5T

Consumer prices                           30.0     -2.0    5.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                      30.1     -5.4   11.9

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                             7.3    12.4   12.1     -10 1
Current budget balance                     -1.1    -1.6   -1.1                *a     GDPdeflator     -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -11.3   -12.9  -11.3

TRADE
                                          1993    2002   2003      1
(US$ millions)                                                        Export and import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports(fob)                         157     457    498
 Coffee                                     99      85     106      1200
 Cotton                                      5       18     17      1 wo
 Manufactures                                                         800
Total imports (cif)                        531   1,031   1,151        800
 Food                                                                 400
 Fueland energy                             58      123    134        200
 Capitalgoods                                                           0
                                                                            97    98    99      00     01   02     03
Exportprice index (1995=100)                42      35     41
Import price index (1995=100)                95     83      90                        Exports          W Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   44      43     45

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1993    2002    2003     1
(US$ millions)                                                        Currentaccount balanceto GDP (x)                 I
Exportsof goods and services               242      726    798        0

Importsof goods and services               693   1,554   1,663        2
Resourcebalance                           -455     -857   -885        4

Net income                                  -49    -127   -145        6

Net currenttransfers                       108      161    680        8

                                                                    -10
Currentaccount balance                    -396     -823   -350
                                                                    -12
Financingitems (net)                       425      996    483      -14
Changesin net reserves                      -29    -174   -133      .I6

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)       112      840    931
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)         1,201.8 1,755.0 1,882.8

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                      1 Compositionof 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed      2,638   2,832   2,747
  IBRD                                       11       0      0      I                 E: 133 F:20
  IDA                                    1,267   2,077   2,046

Total debt service                         175      160    165
  IBRD                                       10       0      0
  IDA                                        13      14     20

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                         206.1   407.3   458.2
  Officialcreditors                        230      259    229
  Privatecreditors                          -11       3      8
  Foreign direct investment                   4     182    220
  Porlfolioequity                             0       0      0

World Bank program
  Commitments                              224      234    407        A                                  E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                            135      256    353        B IDA
                                                                       -- IBRD   D - Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                          .
  Principalrepayments                        12      21     28        C IMF
                                                                        -                                G Short-term
                                                                                                           -
  Net flows                                123      235    325
  Interestpayments                           11      16     19
  Net transfers                            112      219    306


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                              8/4/04




                                                   176

                                                                 Annex 8: Social Indicators

                                                                     U g a n d a S o c i a l I n d i c a t o r s

                                                                                          Latest slngle year                            S a m e r e g i o n i i n c o m e g r o u p



                                                                                                                                                    Sub.
                                                                                                                                               S a h a r a n                 L O W .
                                                                           1970-75'            1980-85          1 9 9 4 4 3                       Africa                 i n c o m e



P O P U L A T I O N
Total population, mid-year (millions)                                            11.2                 14.1           24.3                           642 8                2,417 1
    Growth rate (% annual average for period)                                     2 7                  2.0            3.4                               2 6                      1 9
Urban population (Oh of population)                                                8.3                 9.9           16.1                             33 6                     31 4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                                           7.1                  7.2            6.7                               5 3                      3 7

P O V E R T Y
(% of population)
National headcount index                                                                                                36
    Urban headcount index                                                                                               12
    Rural headcount index                                                                                               42

I N C O M E
G N i per capita ( U S $ )                                                                            180             240                               490                     420
Consumer price index (1995.100)                                                                           1           122                               131                     138
Food price index (1995=100)                                                                                           107

i N C O M E l C O N S U M P T l O N DiSTRiBUTlON

Share of income o r consumption
Gini index                                                                                                           37.4
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                       6.0                                 7.1
Highest quintiie (% of income or consumption)                                    47.0                                44.9

S O C I A L i N D l C A T O R S

P u b l i c e x p e n d i t u r e

    Health     ( O h of G D P )                                                                                        1.9                               1 7                     1.2
    Education (% of GNI)                                                           2 7                  3.5            2.6                               4.1                     3.3
    Social security a n d welfare (% of G D P )

N e t p r i m a r y s c h o o l e n r o l l m e n t rate
(% o f age g r o u p )
    Total                                                                                               41              89
        Male                                                                                            4 4
        Female                                                                                          38

A c c e s s t o an i m p r o v e d w a t e r s o u r c e
(% of population)
    Total                                                                                                16             55                                55                      76
         Urban                                                                                          45              55                                82                      88
         Rural                                                                                           12             55                                41                      70

l m m u n i z a t l o n rate
(% under 1 2 months)
    Measles                                                                                              17             57                                57                      64
    D P T                                                                                                14             47                                59                      70
Chiid malnutrition (Oh under 5 years)                                                                                   38

Life e x p e c t a n c y a t b i r t h
(years)
    Total                                                                            50                 48              42                                47                      59
        Male                                                                         48                 48              42                                46                      5 8
        Female                                                                       51                 49              41                                48                      60

Mortality
    Infant (per 1,000 live births)                                                111                  116              88                                92                      77
    Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                                               185                  180            152                               161                      116
    A d u l t (15.59)
        Male (per 1.000 population)                                               447                 483             597                               499                      288
        Female (per 1,000 popuiation)                                             393                 395             590                               453                      258
    Maternal (per 100,000 live births)                                                                                505
Births attended by skilled health staff ( % )                                                                           39


N o t e : N e t e n r o l l m e n t ratios i n t h e E d u c a t i o n Statistical A b s t r a c t are b e l i e v e d t o be reliable, t h e r a t i o s m u s t b e laken
 a s a p p r o x i m a t i o n s d u e t o the h i g h d e g r e e of u n c e r t a i n t y o v e r t h e size o f the p o p u l a t i o n .

2001 World Development Indicators C D - R O M . World Bank




                                                                                          177

                                              Annex 9: Key Economic Indicators

                                                                    Actual                               Projected
                   lndlcncor                    1999       2000       ZOO1     2002    2003    ZOO4    ZOOS     2006     2007

Yational accounts (as Y o of GDP)
Grossdomestic product l a                            100        100       100      100    100     100      100      100      100
 Agriculture                                         38.4      37.3      36.4     31.5    32.4   32.2     31.9     31.7     31.4
 Industry                                            19.9      20.3      20.2     20.2    21.2   21.2     21.3     21.4     21.6
 Services                                            41.7      42.4      43.4     48.3    46.4   46.6     46.8     46.9     47.0

Total Consumption                                    92.6      92.1      93.5     94.3    90.2   95.3     97.1     95.4     89.7
Gross domestic fixed investment                      19.2      19.5      18.2     19.6    20.3   21.3     22.5     22.6     23.1
 Government investment                                5.5        6.4      5.8      5.4     4.7     5.2     5.2      4.6      4.6
 Private investment                                  13.7      13.1      12.4     14.2    15.6    16.1    17.3     18.0     18.5

Exports (GNFS) lb                                    12.3      11.3      12.1     12.1    12.3    13.7    13.4     13.7     13.9
Imports (GNFS)                                       24.4      23.2      24.3     26.9    26.4    27.5    28.6     29.1     30.2

Grossdomestic savings                                 7.4        7.9      6.5      5.7     9.8     4.7     2.9      4.6     10.3
Grossnational savings IC                              7.5        8.3      4.8      6.3    18.3    13.9    11.8     14.4     20.3

Memorandum items
Grossdomestic product                            5966.0     5891.2     5681.3   5766.3  6298.7  6792.6  7246.1   7503.1   7792.3
(US$million at current prices)
GNIper capita (US$,Atlas metbod)                   300.0      280.0     260.0    240.0   240.0   250.0   260.0    270.0    270.0

Real annual growth rates ("h,calculatedfrom 1991 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices              7.9        5.4      6.1      6.8     4.7     5.7     6.0      5.4      5.7
 GrossDomestic Income                                 6.9        4.1      7.2      6.7     4.9     5.8     6.2      0.7      5.9

Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1991prices)
 Gross domestic product at marketprices               4.4        1.7      2.5      1.0     1.8     2.0     2.3       1.7     2.0
 Total consumption                                   -0.9        0.0      5.3      0.2     0.6     1.1     2.3      2.1      2.5
 Private consumption                                 -0.7       -1.0      6.0      0.4     0.2    -0.2     2.0      2.8      3.4

Balance of Payments (US%millions)
 Exports (GNFS) /b                                   726        663       690      697     778     928     972     1025     1083
   Merchandise (fob)                                 549        460       471      472     512     628     652      691      735
 Imports (GNFS) /b                                  1497       1366     1378      1554    1663    1867    2071     2183     2351
   Merchandise (fob)                                1039        954       953     1031    1151    1336    1497     1584     1712
 Resource balance                                   -770       -703     -688      -857    -885    -940   -1098    -1159    -1268
 Net current transfers                                21        167       45       161     680     779     829      869      913
 Current accountbalance (before grants)             -763       -678     -785      -823    -350    -318    -449     -426     -492

 Net private f o r e i p direct investment           145        177       133      181     192     196     198      192      199
 Long-term loans (net)                               191        159       197      300     256     242     224      225         8
  Official                                           194        163       190      297     248     234     216      218         0
  Private                                             -3         -4         6        3       8       8        8        8        8
 Other capital (net, incl. errors & ommissior        122        -44      -162      178     -40    -217     -20       29      110
 Change inreservesd                                  -33         15       -4 1    -174    -133    -228     -23       20         0

Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                         -12.9     -11.9     -12.1    -14.9   -14.0   -13.8    -15.2    -15.4    -16.3
Real annual growthrates ( YR91 prices)
 Merchandise exports (fob)                           19.8     -16.2       0.7     -1.3     9.0    21.0      3.2    20.8     -26.8

 Merchandise imports (ci0                             7.6      -8.2      -0.1      8.1    11.6    16.1     12.0      5.8      8.1




                                                                     178

                                              Uganda Key Economic Indicators
                                                           -
                                                                 (Continued)


                                                                       Actual                               Projected
                  Indicator                     1999          2000      ZOO1     2002    2003    2004    2005      2006    2007



Public finance (as  O hof GDP at market prices)e
 Current revenues                                   11.7          11.3      10.8   12.20    12.1    12.6    12.9      12.7    12.8
 Current expenditures                               10.7          11.0      12.4    14.0    13.2    13.3    13.4      12.9    12.3
 Capital expenditure                                  7.2         14.2       9.1     9.7     9.7     9.8     9.6       8.4     8.2
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)           1.0          0.4      -1.6    -1.6    -1.1    -0.7    -0.5      -0.2     0.5
  excluding grants                                   -7.7        -15.5     -10.8   -12.2   -11.3   -11.2   -10.9      -9.7    -8.7
  including grants                                  -2.7         -9.7       -4.2    -6.4    -5.2    -4.3    -4.0      -3.7    -2.9
 Foreign financing  (net)                             2.8          3.2       3.6     4.6     4.3     2.5     3.4       2.6     2.4

Monetary indicators
 M2IGDP                                             14.3          15.1      15.8    19.0    20.0    20.7    21.7      22.8    24.0
 Growth of M2 (%)                                   13.8          16.1      17.5    21.6    23.3    15.4    14.8      14.8    15.1
 Private sector credit gowth 1                      72.3           9.3      28.5    59.8   196.7  -427.3    66.5      61.3    81.2
 total credit growth (%)

Price indices( 1992/93 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index                    194.0         189.3     162.2   202.9   249.9   217.9   216.3     215.5   216.7
 Merchandise import price index                    103.9          99.1     108.8   118.1   121.7   121.7   122.2     122.8   123.3
 Merchandise terms o f trade index                 186.7         191.0     149.1   171.8   205.3   179.0   177.0     175.5   175.8
 Real exchange rate (USULCU) /f                     32.3          33.0      35.6    35.6    35.6    35.6    35.6      35.6    35.6

 Real interest rates
 Consumer price index (% change)                     0.2           5.8       4.5    -2.0     5.7     5.9     3.5       3.5     3.5
 GDP deflator (% change)                             0.3           4.0       6.0    -5.4    11.9     5.4     3.3       3.7     3.7



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactor services."
c. Includesnet unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants,
d. Includes use of I M F resources.
e. Consolidated central govemment.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currencyunits." An increase inUS$/LCUdenotes appreciation.




                                                                        179

                                            Annex 10: Key Exposure Indicators

                                                                 Actual                                          Projected
               Indicator                     1999      2000        2001       2002        2003       2004     2005      2006     2007
Toul debt outstandingand                                 34944       36023      31345      2832.1     2716 5   2643 6    2540 3   2435 7
disbursed(TDO) (US$m)la

Net disbursements(US$m)/a                                 132.7        108.5    129.1        270.2     235.3    215.4     204.9    204.5


Total debt service(TDS)                                   116.9        127.8     80.0         38.1      43.3     53.8      52.8     51.1
(US$m)/a

Debt and debt serviceindicators
("h)
NPV ofDebtiExportsof Goodsand Services                                 167.4    183.6        258.1      246.4   237.2     230.4    233.5
  DebtiGDP                                                             20.2      21.4         29.6       29.0    29.3      30.0     30.8
  NPVof debt to revenue                                                186.9    175.6        244.5      230.9   226.5     236.5    241.1

IBRD exposureindicators("A)
  PreferredcreditorDSIpublic                               63.4        64.3       81.2        79.8       81.8    82.2      84.4     85.5
  DS(%) IC
  IDATDO (US$m)id                                        1935.0      2098.1    2100.9      2076.6      2045.6  2007.1     1966.7  1925.0


IFC (US$m)
  Loans
  Equityand quasi-equity IC


MIGA
  MIGAguarantees (US$m)




a. Includespublic andpubliclyguaranteeddebt,privatenonguaranteed,use ofIMF credits andnet short-
   termcapital.
b. "XGS" denotes exportsof goodsand services, includingworkers'remittances.
c. Preferredcreditors are definedas IBRD, IDA, the regionalmultilateraldevelopmentbanks, the IMF, andthe
   Bank for IntemationalSettlements.
d. Includespresentvalue of guarantees.
e. Includesequityandquasi-equitytypes of bothloanandequity instruments.




                                                                     180

       8




            7   r
            0    0




U
cd
9
;>"
El
.I

          Annex 12: Note on Relationswith the International Monetary Fund




Press Release No. 04/164                                              Intemational Monetary Fund

July 30,2004                                                          700 19thStreet, NW
                                                                      Washington, D.C. 20431 USA


      IMFCompletesThirdReview UnderUganda'sPRGFArrangementandReviews
                                   NoncomplyingDisbursement

The Executive Board o f the InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF) today completed the third review
of Uganda's economic performance under a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) arrangement and approved the disbursement o f an amount equivalent to SDR 2.0 million
(about US$2.9 million), which would bring total disbursements under its PRGF arrangement to
SDR 7.5 million (about US$10.9 million).

Incompletingthe thirdreview, the ExecutiveBoard grantedUganda'srequest for waivers ofnon-
observance for three end-December 2003 quantitative performance criteria, and the end-March
2004 structural performance criterion regarding the decision on the divestiture o f the Uganda
Development Bank Ltd.

The Executive Board also reviewed matters relating to a noncomplying disbursement in an
amount equivalent to SDR 2.0 million (about US$2.9 million) made on December 29, 2003,
following completion o f the second review under Uganda's PRGF arrangement. The Executive
Board waived the non-observance o f the end-June 2003 performance criterion on the contracting
or guaranteeing o f nonconcessional public sector external debt with a maturity of more than one
year which gave rise to the noncomplying disbursement, inview o f the minor deviation from the
performance criterion and the subsequent corrective action taken by the authorities.

Uganda's three-year arrangement was approved on September 13, 2002 (See Press Release
No.02/41) for an amount equivalent to SDR 13.5 million (about US$19.6 million).

Following the Executive Board's discussion on the third review, Mr. Takatoshi Kato, Deputy
Managing Director and Acting Chairman, made the following statement:

"Uganda's continued strong commitment to sound policies has contributed to macroeconomic
stability and to robust economic activity. Improved revenue performance contributed to a modest
fiscal adjustment in 2003/04, despite strong pressures for additional spending. Further measures
are needed to ensure a sustainable reduction in the deficit. Looking ahead, the authorities are
committed to reversing a recent rise in the incidence o f poverty, especially inrural areas, and are
reviewing their policies for boosting economic growth and reducing poverty in the context o f the
forthcoming revision o f the Poverty EradicationAction Plan.

"Sustained economic growth and poverty reduction will require continued pursuit o f sound fiscal
and monetarypolicies and structural reforms. To this end, the authorities aim to reduce further the
fiscal deficit in 2004/05, thus strengthening fiscal and debt sustainability and alleviating pressure
on real interest rates and the real exchange rate. Fiscal measures requiring timely implementation
will include measures to raise revenue, improve tax administration, and contain spending on
public administration and defense. The authorities remain committed to deepening reforms in
public expenditure management and increasing social spending, as critical elements for fighting


                                              182

poverty. Improving governance remains a key objective, including tackling corruption in the
Uganda Revenue Authority and strengtheningconfidence inpublic institutions more broadly.

"Supported by new instruments for liquidity management, monetary policy will aim at keeping
inflation l o w and reducing interest rate volatility. A flexible exchange rate policy will help
preserve Uganda's international competitiveness. The authorities are making progress in
strengthening the framework for bank supervision and regulation o f the financial system. The
planned liberalization o f the pension system and a broadening of the nonbank financial sector
should be accompanied by an appropriate extension o f this framework. Important legislative
initiatives and the planned restructuring and divestiture o f the Uganda Development Bank Ltd.
will enhance credit to small-and medium-size enterprises.

"The authorities aim to strengthen debt management by placing an annual cap on new
concessional borrowing, in addition to the embargo on nonconcessional borrowing, and relying
more on grant financing. Structural reforms to modernize agriculture and improve infrastructure
willpromote export growth and economic diversification," Mr.Kato said.

On the noncomplying disbursement, Mr. Rodrigo de Rato, Managing Director and Chairman
said:

"The Executive Board regretted the authorities' failure to provide accurate information relating to
the endJune 2003 performance criterion on the contracting or guaranteeing o f nonconcessional
public sector external debt with a maturity o f more than one year.
"The Board noted the minor nature o f the slippage, and the corrective actions being taken by the
authorities following the discovery of the violation o f the performance criterion.
"Inview o f the prompt corrective actions taken by the authorities, and the steps they propose to
take in the future to verify and ensure that new loans are appropriately concessional, the
Executive Board decided to grant a waiver o f nonobservance o f the performance criterion that
gave rise to the noncomplying disbursement," Mr.de Rat0 said.

The PRGF i s the IMF's concessional facility for low-income countries. PRGF-supported
programs are based on country-owned poverty reduction strategies adopted in a participatory
process involving civil society and development partners and articulated in a Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). This i s intended to ensure that each PRGF-supported program i s
consistent with a comprehensive framework for macroeconomic, structural, and social policies to
foster growth and reduce poverty. PRGF loans carry an annual interest rate o f 0.5 percent, and are
repayable over 10years with a 5%-year grace period on principal payments.




                                               183


MAP SECTION




