Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9194
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOURISM PROJECT
(CREDIT 909-EGT)
DECEMBER 21, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted dstribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) - 100 Piasters
Currency Equivalents
Before JulY   1986       1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      -  US$ 1.43
Jul. 1986-Dec 1987       1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      -  US$ 0.74
Dec. 1987-Dec 1988       1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      -  US$ 0.53
Dec. 1988-Dec 1989       1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      -  US$ 0.38
Measures and Eauivalents
1 meter (m)                                       -  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meeter (i2)                              -  10.8 square feet (sq. ft.)
I cubic meter (e3)                                -  35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                                  -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                                    -  10,000 i2 or 2.471 acres
1 acre                                            -  4,047 m2 or 0.405 hectares
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)                  -  0.264 US gallon per capita
per day (gpcd)
1 kilowatt (kW)                                      1000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)                                   -  1000 kilowatts
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)                           -  1000 volt amperes
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)                           -  1000 kilovolt amperes
Abbreviations and Acronyms
EAO      Egyptian Antiquities Organization
ECAO     Egyptian Civil Aviation Organization
EGOTH    Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels
EHCO     Egyptian Hotel Company
IDA      International Development Association
IMCC     Inter Ministerial Coordinating Committee
MCT      Misr Tourism Company
MTCA     Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation
RBA      Road and Bridge Authority
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofrce of OifteoiGefal
Opsttonm Esalutaln
December 21, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report - Arab Republic of Egypt
Tourism Project (Credit 909-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
-ject Completion Report - Arab Republic of Egypt Tourism Project (Credit
-EGT)", prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
uxfice.   No audit of this project has been made by. the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborination.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOUR:SM PROJECT
(CREDIT 909-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface   ..............................................
Evaluation Summary ........................................i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity                    ..                                                1
2. Background ..                                                                         1
3.  Project Objectives and Description                  .          .                     3
4. Project Design and Organization                    .           .                      4
5. Project Implementation                    ..                                          5
6.    Project Results ...........................................                        9
7.  Economic Evaluation and Rates of Return   .                       .10
8. Impact of the Project    ..13
9. Project Sustainability                    ..                                         14
10. Bank Performance                   ..14
11. Borrower Performance                   ..14
12. Bank - Borrower Relationship                  ..                                    15
13. Consulting Services    ..15
14. Project Documentation and Data    .                         .15
15. Status of Covenants    ..15
16. Lessons Learned    ..16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOkROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. General Issues of Implementation Experience .                        .               17
2. Consulting Services    ..17
3. Contractors Performance                            ...                               18
4. Project Implementation and Results                         .          .              18
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables
1. Project Timetable    ..27
2. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . .28
3. Mission Data                        . . .29
4. Project Appraisal and Actual Costs    .                        .31
5. Project Expenditure                      .. .                 .32
6.  Tourist Arrivals and Number of Bed-Nights for Egypt                                33
7. Luxor Accommodation and Occupancy Rates ..34
8.  Number of Tourists, Available Beds, and Bed-Nights in                              35
Luxor
9. Tourist Expenditures ln 1989                    ..              .36
10.  Luxor Investments and Benefits and Rates of Return                                 37
11.  Number of Tourists, Available Beds, and Bed Nights at                              38
Abu-Simbel
12.  Abu-Simbel Investments, Benefits and Rates of Return                               39
13. Status of Covenants                     ..                .40
14. Studies and Technical Assistance    .                        .42
15. Project Indicators    ..43
Annex                                             .. ..44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOURISM PROJECT
(CREDIT 909-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.0 Proiect Identity
Project Name                               Tourism Project
Credit Number                               909 -EGT
Regional Vice President Unit                EMENA
Country                                     Egypt
Sector                                     Tourism
2.0 Background
Introduction
2.01 The Government of Egypt first expressed interest in receiving IDA
assistance in developing the tourism sector in 1973. At that time the
Government policy and strategy were not well defined. Over a period of four
years a number of possibilities and strategies were discussed and major resort
developments along Egypt's north-west Mediterranean coast, at the major sites
of historical and archaeological interest along the Nile Valley, and, as a
lesser priority, along the Red Sea Coast were considered. The project was
identified in April 1977. During preparation missions that took place between
October 1977 and May 1978, it was agreed that priority attention should focus
mainly on developing touristic facilities along the Nile Valley, particularly
at Luxor's major archaeological sites where the flow of visitors was out-
stripping public facilities. It was subsequently agreed that minor investment
at Abu Simbel would be included in the project, as well as assistance for the
renovation of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. The appraisal mission visited
Egypt in June/July 1978. Negotiations were held in April 1979 and the credit
was approved on June 13, 1979. It became effective on March 26, 1980.
Sector Development Obiectives
2.02 Egypt has one of the oldest tourist industries in the world and is today
a major attraction for international tourism. Its pleasant climate and
cultural assets, which include archaeological sites, Islamic monuments and
attractive beaches are conducive to year-round tourism activities. Egypt has
also been, for centuries, an important cultural, religious and political
center of the Arab world and, as such, has for long attracted Arab visitors.
Despite military conflicts in the region, foreign tourism to Egypt rose at an
average rate of 11 per annum between 1952 and 1977, when the number of
tourists, for the first time, exceeded 1 million. Between 1978 and 1989, the
number of tourists increased at an average rate of 11.61 per annum, reaching
2.4 million in 1989. Prospects for further growth are favorable, given the
general increase in worldwide tourism and Egypt's comparative advantage in
this area.



-2-
2.03 Egypt's unique tourism sector holds great potential for increasing the
economic and financial resources of the country. Although at the time of
project appraisal, the number of visiting tourists was less than half its
current level, the insufficient capacity in hct1ls, infrastructure and other
tourist facilities imposed constraints on the future development of the
sector. The very high occupancy rates and high returns on investment in Cairo
hotels stimulated new hotel projects there; a similar expansion of capacity in
Upper Egypt did not take place, because severe infrastructure deficiencies
were hampering hotel development, particularly in the Luxor area. The
Government recognized the suppressed demand and the urgent need to promote
economic development in order to increase foreign exchange earnings and
employment opportunities. Upgrading infrastructure and tourist facilities at
Luxor thus became a clear priority for the development of the sector.
Policy Context
2.04 The Egyptian government started to encourage private sector
participation in the tourism sector after 1973. By the time of appraisal,
private management companies were actively encouraged to take equity positions
in new hotels and financing was sought from foreign sources. The Government,
nevertheless, continued to play a major role in the tourism sector through its
Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation (MTCA). The Ministry's tasks include
planning, promotion, and the development of tourism activities and facilities.
MTCA regulates the tariffs for hotel rooms, the prices of food and beverages
in hotels and restaurants, and the prices of tourist transportation and
related facilities. The rationale for price setting and controls, according to
the tourism authorities, is to prevent prices from increasing to a point where
Egypt's competitiveness in the tourism industry could be jeopardized.
However, the price control mechanism and the level set for prices have had the
effect of discouraging private capital from investing in sizeable amounts, and
the Government has had to constantly supply fresh capital to the sector. At
present the Government is leaning towards price liberalization and
encouragement of private ventures in the tourism sector, and is gradually
reducing its involvement in hotel regulations, ownership, and management.
Linkages Between the Proiect And Macro Policy Objectives
2.05 The project's concentration on the promotion of tourism at Luxor was
justified from both the sectoral and macroeconomic points of view. The
substantial intrease in the number of tourists visiting Egypt during the
period 1978 - 1989 would have resulted in severe hotel shortages in both Cairo
and Upper Egypt. Accommodation problems in Cairo were resolved as new hotels
emerged in the city. By improving Luxor's infrastructure, the project helped
resolve the accommodation problems at Luxor, increased the net foreign
exchange earnings of the country by US $60 million in 19891 (para. 7.04), and
substantially improved employment opportunities in the city of Luxor and its
'/ Calculated on the basis of tourist expenditures at Luxor and Abu-Simbel
(Part III, Table 9)



- 3 -
surroundings (about 10,000 new jobs created, Para.8.01). It also contributed
indirectly to the utilization of the expanded hotel capacity in Cairo.
3.0 Project Obiectives and Description
Proiect Obiectives
3.01 The mPain objectives of the project implicit in che Appraisal Report and
Credit Documents, were to: (i) cope with the expected increase in the number
of tourists visiting Egypt, particularly Luxor; (ii) increase foreign exchange
earnings;and (iii) promote the economic development of the Luxor region, while
ensuring an adequate return on investments. These objectives were
substantially met by the provision and upgrading of the infrastructure and
services at Luxor and, to a lesser degree, at Abu Simbel.
Proiect Components
3.02 The project, at appraisal, consisted of the following three,
geographically separate, components: (i) improvements of the infrastructure
and tourist superstructure facilities in t,.e city of Luxor to provide the
basis for accommodating the projected increase in the number of tourists, and
the introduction of measures to protect important archaeological sites; (ii)
a modest expansion of the Nefertari Hotel at Abu Simbel and improvement of its
supporting infrastructure; and (iii) the renovation of the Egyptian Museum in
Cairo.
3.03 The infrastructure improvements at Luxor included the widening and
partial realignment of the road to the airport; an upgrading and widening of
the corniche (road and pedestrian area along the eastern Nile embarkment),
together with the provision of cruiser docks and new ferry landings; minor
improvements to Luxor and the West Bank roads; extensions of the water
distribution network; new equipment for collection and disposal of solid
waste; major strengthening of elnctric power supply and distribution; and
enhancement of communication and telex facilities.
3.04 Improvements of the Luxor superstructure component included the
construction of a new air terminal building at Luxor Airport to accommodate
the expected increase in the number of passengers, the renovation and
expansion of the old Luxor Hotel from a facility with 54 bedrooms and 12
suites to one with 214 guest rooms and all supporting facilities, the
construction of a new hotel training sc 3ol with staff housing and student
dormitories, construction of a Visitor Center; a limited preservation and
consolidation program for the Karnak Temple entrance and the cleaning of the
waters of its sacred lakes; and measures to protect the seven pharaonic tombs
which receive the greatest visitor flows.
3.05 The Abu Simbel component included improvements to the road from the
airport to the temple; the installation of a telecommunications system; and
the renovation and expansion of tbe existing 20 room Nefertari Guesthouse to a
small hotel with 54 rooms.



- 4 -
3.06 The renovation of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo included as a first
tranche of a long-term program, repairs to the museum buildings, provision of
climatic control, improvement to lighting and display, fire control and
security systems. The program also included the upgrading of the library, and
conservation, research, administration and storage facilities.
3.07 The project included funds to finance studies for the following: (i) the
management of visitors on the West Bank of the Nile at Luxor; (ii) the
organization and operation of the water, sewerage and solid waste disposal
services in Luxor; (iii) the airport charges needed to ensure cost recovery of
investments in civil aviation facilities; (iv) the impact of price controls on
hotels and means to reduce public investment in hotel construction costs; (v)
the preparation of a long-term development program for the Egyptian Museum;
and (vi) the formulation of the Egyptian Antiquities Organization (EAO) five-
year program for the development of museums, antiquities bites, and sound and
light projects.
4.0 Project Design and Organization
4.01 The Government, directly or through its state agencies, plays a major
role in the tourism sector. At the time of appraisal, it was thought that,
because the project was complex and included several components which were
under the jurisdiction of several ministries and government agencies, the
establishment of a Project Unit to coordinate and implement the project
components was essential. As a result, design of the project included the
establishment of a Project Unit in MTCA to coordinate the implementation of
all project components effectively and efficiently, except for the renovation
of the Egyptian Museum, which was to remain under the responsibility of the
EAO at the Ministry of Education, Scientific Research and Culture. The Project
Unit reported to an Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee responsible for
the ultimate coordination between all the agencies involved in project
implementation.
4.02 This arrangement, although suitable from the point of view of IDA and
the MTCA, did not operate satisfactorily with regards to a project with
complex multiple components implemented by various agencies under the
jurisdiction of several ministries. Coordination between implementing
agencies which had different priorities and competing demands turned out to be
much more difficult than initially anticipated. The Inter-Ministerial
Committee was also ineffective in its coordination efforts. The Project Unit,
although adequately staffed and equipped, did not have jurisdiction over the
other ministries involved in project implementation and was unable to adhere
to the implementation schedules, especially for the construction works at the
Luxor Corniche. The project, as a result, suffered long implementation
delays.
4.03 Considerable effort and studies were put into the project during its
preparation and implementation.   The timing of the project was appropriate as
it coincided with the increase in tourist activities in the region. Without



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOURISM PROJECT
(CREDIT 909-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The primary objectives of the project were to sustain the increase in
the number of tourists visiting Egypt, particularly Luxor; to promote the
economic development of the Luxor region; and to increase foreign exchange
receipts, all through the provision of needed infrastructure and services
(para. 3.01).
Im2lementation Experience
2.    Implementation was delayed by five years (para.5.04).  All major project
components were implemented by the closing date, with the exception of the
renovation of the Egyptian Museum at Cairo and the protection of six of the
pharaonic tombs (para. 5.02).
3.    The project did not incur serious procurement problems, except for
delays in issuance of letters of credit, and delays between bid openings and
contract signatures (para. 5.06).
4.    Without taking into consideration the changes that occurred in the scope
of the project, the total project cost increased in LE by 32Z, while the cost
in US$ decreased by 10.2% (para. 5.07).  If the changes in the scope are taken
into consideration, the adjusted cost would have increased by 18X in LE, and
decreased by 261 in US$ over the appraisal cost (para 5.09).
5.    At the closing of accounts on April 30, 1990, an amount of US $9.40
million which remained undisbursed was cancelled (para. 5.10). Audits
received of project accounts were not comprehensive, despite frequent
reminders and requests by IDA (para. 5.11).
Results
6.    The project succeeded in providing the needed improvements to the
infrastructure at both Luxor and Abu Simbel, thus enabling the two cities to
cope with increases in tourists (para. 6.01). It was however less successful
in implementing the institutional and administrative reforms (para. 6.04 -
6.08).
7.    As a result of the improvements to the Luxor infrastructure, and the
corresponding increase in the number of tourists, the rate of return increased
from the appraisal estimate of 13X to 171 (para. 7.07). Despite depreciation
of the Egyptian pound, the annual foreign exchange earnings increased to US
$60 million from the appraisal estimate of about US$43 million (para. 7.04).
Although appraisal estimated an increase in tourists arrival at an average of
71 per annum, the actual 1980-1990 figures show an average annual increase of
11.61. This increase, however, cannot be entirely attributed to the project.



- iv -
Sustainability
8.    The income generated ~y the increase in the number of tourists, if
properly targeted, and the operation and maintenance contractual arrangements
entered into between the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation and
specialized agencies, will ensure the maintenance and sustainability of the
project components (para. 9.01).
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    Project implementation faced problems due to the following major
factors:
(i)   complexity of the project, i.e., too many components affecting too
many sectors,
(ii) lack of centralized decision making and coordination and
involvement of too many competing agencies,
(iii) The complexity and slowness of Egyptian procurement procedures.
The project was too complicated to be implemented by a pro' at unit with no
jurisdiction and power over other involved agencies (para. 4.02).   The
appraisal process should have assessed in a more realistic way the capability
of the project unit to complete such a complex project. The design should
have been simpler with fewer components, and should have been more pragmatic
in attempting to introduce institutional reforms to institutions which were
only marginally involved in the project. For future endeavors, more time and
diversified resources should be allocated to supervise similar complicated
projects (para. 10.01). Projects with multiple components and several
agencies should be coordinated and controlled by a fully staffed entity, with
enough authority in order to ensure adherence to the conditionalities and
implementation as planned and on schedule.



.PROJECT C2-PLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOURISM PROJECT
(CREDIT 909-EGT)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Egypt Tourism
Project, for which Credit 909-EGT in the amount of US$ 32.5 million was
approved on May 17, 1979. The credit was closed on December 31, 1989, five
years behind schedule. An amount of US $9.4 million remained undisbursed, and
was cancelled at the time of the closing of accounts on April 30, 1990.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared: the Infrastructure Operations Division of
the EHENA Regional Office prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts
I and III; the Borrower prepared Part II.
3.    Preparation of the PCR scarted during IDA's final supervision mission of
the project in November/Decem3er 1989 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and IDA's
internal memoranda and reports.



the project, Luxor would not have been able to accommodate in a sustainable
manner, the increase in the number of visitors to the city.
4.04 Although, in retrospect, its objectives were sound, the project was too
complex and involved too many implementing agencies. A regional tourism
development agency with implementation authority overriding Cairo's technical
ministries and a less complicated and more focused project (both
geographically and technically) could have brought similar benefits to the
Luxor region in a more timely and cost effective manner.
5.0 Project Imglementation
Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up
5.01 Although the credit was approved on May 17, 1979 and signed on June 13,
1979, it only became effective on March 26, 1980 due to the delays in
obtaining final approvals and in the execution of the eight subsidiary loan
agreements, which were conditions of effectiveness.
Construction
5.02 The components originally envisaged in the project were completed,
except for the renovation of the Egyptian Museum and the protective measures
for six of the seven tombs. The renovation of the Luxor hotel was implemented
by the Egyptian Hotel Company and the solid waste component was implemented by
the City of Luxor through the services of a private sector operator. The
indecision and lack of commitment of the EAO to renovate the Egyptian Museum
and the frequent changes of its top managers contributed to innumerable delays
which eventually led to the cancellation of the renovation works for the
Museum. Up to the closing date, only architectural drawings and detailed
design for the Museum and the protection, as a pilot project, of one of the
tombs were completed. The scope of the work for some project components was
increased and entirely financed by the Borrower (Para 5.08).
Studies
5.03 All but one of the studies originally envisaged by the project (para.
3.07) were completed. The recommendations of the studies for the management
of visitors to the West Bank and for controls on hotel prices have been or are
being implemented. The recommendations of the studies on airport charges, and
water, sewerage and waste disposal were only partially implemented (para.
6.07). Since a 5-year program for development of museums, antiquity site and
sound and light projects was already prepared by EAO and fulfilled the
objectives of the "long-term development program for Egyptian Museum" study,
this study was cancelled by mutual agreement. The recommendations of the
study relating to the long-term development of the Egyptian Museum were not
implemented.



-6-
Implementation Delays
5.04 The project was substantially completed by December 1989, about five
years later than originally envisaged. The original project completion date,
set for December 31, 1984 (only 4.5 years after the actual effectiveness date)
was unrealistic for such a complex project. The implementation profile for
less complex projects in Egypt is about nine yi.-rs.  Notwithstanding the over-
optimistic implementation schedule, the project incurred delays for the
following reasons:
(a) difficulties encountered by the Project Unit in coordinating the
schedules and works of numerous implementing agencies which were under
the jurisdiction of other ministries (Annex 1);
(b) frequent changes in the top management of the EAO and a lack of
commitmenc to the works related to the renovation of the Egyptian
Museum;
(c) cumbersome bureaucratic procedures for the issuance of letters of
credit; and
(d) a late start and slow progress of the construction works at
the Luxor Corniche and at the West Bank facilities due tc (i)
issues related to the clearing and handing over of the site to the
contractor; (ii) unfamiliarity of the foreign contractor with
local conditions; (iii) irregular availability of construction
material at the official prices; (iv) lengthy procurement process;
(v) inefficient on-site construction management; and (vi) undue
interferences of the supervisory staff of the implementing
agencies with the contractors' work program.
Closing Date Extensions and Completion
5.05   The closing date was extended five times to allow for the completion of
the construction works. At the time of credit closing on December 31, 1989,
all physical works were completed, except for the cancelled components (para
5.02) and some minor works were in their final stage of completion. The
institutional and operational objectives, which normally take more time to
achieve, were only partially met (paras 6.04-6.08).
Procurement
5.06   The project encountered no major procurement issues except for the long
delay between the opening of bids and the signing of contracts. The time
taken between bid opening and contract signing often exceeded five months.
The issuance of letters of credit also took a long time to materialize.
Although IDA procurement guidelines were followed, delays in procurement
occurred as a result of slow decision making and cumbersome governmental



-7-
procedures as well as unfamiliarity of numerous implementing agencies involved
in the project.
Project Cost and Disbursement
5.07   Without taking into consideration the impact of the changes that
occurred in the scope of the project, the total project cost estimated at LE
41.3 million during appraisal increased to LE 54.6 million, or an overrun of
about 32 percent. The total expenditure in US dollars, on the other hand,
decreased from the appraisal estimate of US$59 million to US$53 million or an
underrun of about 10.2 percent, mainly due to the depreciation in the rate of
exchange of the Egyptian pound relative to the dollar (Table 1).
Table 1 : Proiect cost by component
(in USS million)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES   ACTUAL     TOTAL    TOTAL
GOV    IDA       OV      ID  APPRAISAL  ACTUAL
Infrastructure (Luxor)    9.90   17.85     17.00   13.01   27.75    30. ..
Archeological sites       1.22   1.52       3.95   3.35    2.73     ..30
At.coodations (Luxor)      9.01   4.28      3.34   3.45   13.28      6.79
Abu-Simbel facilities      1.75   1.68      0.26   0.95    3.43      1.21
Egyptian Museum           2.37   4.41       0.00   0.00    6.77     0.00
Tech. Ass. & Prof.Servs.   0.58   2.61      1.95   2.34    3.19     4.29
Land Acquisition           0.38   0.00      1.29   0.00    0.38      1.29
Project Administration     1.32   0.16      2.14   0.00    1.48     2.14
TOTAL              26.53  32.50      29.93   23.10   59.03    53.03
COST UNDERRUN IN PERCENTAGE    10.16
5.08 In order to provide a meaningful comparison of costs, readjustments to
the actual costs were introduced to reflect the impact of the changes that
took place in the scope of works during the period of project implementation,
i.e. cancellation of the components related to the Egyptian Museum, the tombs
protection, and the Luxor Hotel; and increases in the scope of works at the
Luxor Corniche and the Visitor Center, as well as increases in the scope of
works at the Luxor Airport terminal, the power station and the hotel training
center, which were exclusively financed by the Borrower agencies (table 2).



Table 2: Adjustments in cost due to change
in scone of works
Appraisal    Actual
(in million)
LE     $US    LE    $US
Arnraisal and actual cost  41.34  59.03  54.59  53.03
&Qytment due to changes in scone of works
Tomb Protection           - 0.30  - 0.50 \,
Egyptian Museum           - 4.52  - 6.77
Luxor Hotel               - 7.96  - 8.19
Corniche and Visitor Center            - 9.00 - 10.11 \3
Airport, Training School, Power Station  - 12.00 - 10.71
Adjusted Cost             28.56  43.57  33.59  32.21
------------------.-------------_--------------------------------__-------_
1/Estimate; appraisal report has no itemized breakdown of cost for tomb
prot_ction.
2/Estimate; actual cost increase due to change in scope of work cannot
be accurately determined. At time of appraisal, no detailed description
of work was available.
5.09 Adjusted costs indicate an increase of LE of 5.03 million, or about 18X.
The costs in US$ decreased by 11.36 million or about 26%. The decrease in
cost in US$ is attributed to the change in rate of exchange of the Egyptian
pound from $1.43 (before July 1986) to $0.38 for the period December 1988-
December .989.
5.10 The credit disbursement profile was about twice of that anticipated at
appraisal. By the original closing date of June 1985 only about 451 of the
credit proceeds had been drawn down. At the time of the closing of accounts
on April 30, 1989, only 71% of the credit was disbursed and an amount equal to
US $9.4 million equivalent was cancelled.
Audits and Regorting
5.11 The credit agreements required the several agencies involved in the
project implementation to provide IDA with the annual audits of their accounts
as well as quarterly implementation reports. Up to the closing of the credit
IDA had only received statements from the Central Government Audit
Organization which indicated the amounts withdrawn from the credit by each
agency, and certification that these amounts were spent on project components.
No comprehensive audits were received, despite IDA's constant reminders. The
progress reports received were short of disclosing full information on
implementation, and the records kept by the agencies were frequently nct
comprehensive.



.9-
6.0 Project Results
6.01 Notwithstanding its slow implementation, the project substantially
achieved its main objectives with regard to the expansion of the Luxor airport
and improvements in the infrastructure of the city of Luxor (water,
electricity, public lighting, roads, and telecommunications). The Luxor
Corniche, the cruiser docking facilities and tourist shops were also
completed, though with substantial delays. The project was successful in
providing the physical facilities needed to improve the transfer of tourists
to the West Bank (visitor center, west bank facilities, shuttle service, etc).
The city was thus able to accommodate the growing number of tourists, and the
hotel industry increased its capacity without appreciable hindrance.
6.02 The project, nevertheless, fell short of its objective to protect the
pharaonic tombs; it also failed to achieve the renovation of the Egyptian
Museum. The deterioration of antiquities on the West Bank of Luxor and the
degradation of artifacts inside the Cairo Museum have not been reduced by the
project, as anticipated, even within the extended project implementation
period. Although, the Government is aware that uncontrolled tourism and
unregulated access to archeological sites represent a threat to its cultural
heritage, the various plans which have been developed have never been
implemented. Since financial resources are not a constraint for a
conservation task of such high international priority, it is even more
alarming that little has happened in the last ten years to stop or even slow
down the deterioration of the unique treasures at Luxor and in the Egyptian
Museum.
6.03 Unless immediate action is taken to properly protect the tombs and to
regulate the inflow of visitors, the deterioration of the tomb paintings will
accelerate. Similarly in the Egyptian Museum, irreplaceable exhibits will
continue to suffer from improper presentation and insufficient protection.
Hence, while the physical aspects of the project to accommodate in the short
term an increased number of visitors to Luxor have been met, its long term
impact on Egypt's cultural property cGuld be detrimental.
Institutional. Managerial and Financial Performance
6.04 Reforms were introduced to the Luxor municipality by a presidential
decree, which established a Higher Council for Luxor headed by the city's
president. The council is independent of the Governorate of Qena and has
extensive power in all matters related to city management, and specifically in
implementing the city's economic and social plans and in developing the
tourist areas within the boundaries of the city.
6.05 The development of programs for visitor management, and procedures to
avoid ccngestion at the Valley of the Kings, was being studied at the time of
project closing. Following the recommendations of the study (para 3.07), a
proposal has been developed by the Misr Tourism Company (MTC), a para statal
tourism company for the management of visitors on the West Bank of the Nile.



- 10 -
MTC will also operate the Visitor Center and regulate the flow of tourists
passing through the center to the West Bank.
6.06 Cost recovery and the collection of rents from the shopkeepers at the
lower walkways of the corniche is assured through a contract between the MTCA
and a private agency, which will maintain the walkways and the docking
facilities, and collect rent and docking charges from cruisers.
6.07 The studies for the operation of the water, sewerage and solid waste
disposal services at Luxor, and for airport costs and revenues, were
completed. The recommendation of these studies, which include new procedures
for accounting, user charges, and financial management systems, have not yet
been fully implemented by either the Luxor municipality, or the Egyptian Civil
Aviation Organization. Up to the time of project closing, the municipality
had only introduced differential water tariffs for different categories of
users, thus charging more for the higher category of hotels and restaurants
used by the tourists. As for the Egyptian Civil Aviation, the charges for
landing recommended by the studies were not introduced. Egypt Air still does
not pay any landing fees at Luxor Airport and no measures have been introduced
to increase Luxor Airport revenues, or to keep separate accounts for Luxor
Airport.
6.08 The expectation that legal, financial, and administrative changes could
have been introduced in the function and operation of the Egyptian Civil
Aviation Organization and Egypt Air appears to have been, in retrospect,
unrealistic within the scope of a tourism project. As a result, the project
objectives of improving the financial management of these two organizations,
and introducing full cost recovery at Luxor Airport, have not been met.
7.0 Economic Evaluation and Rates of Return
The Luxor Proiect Components
7.01 As foreseen at appraisal, J-'provements made to airport facilities and to
the access road to Luxor, which   -i financed by the project and, to a larger
extent, by the borrower, have re-. ad a serious bottleneck that would have
been a major constraint to the number of tourists arriving in Luxor.
Furthermore, these improvements have increased Egypt Air's business and
indirectly improved the occupancy rates in Cairo hotels.
7.02 Moreover, the considerable depreciation of the Egyptian pound in
relation to hard currencies, since mid 1986, contributed to an increased
inflow of tourists (about 22% increase per yes- part III table 6). This
recovery would not have been sustainable with -. improved infrastructure
facilities and services, which have also stimulated   sharp build-up in
capacity, foremost in Nile cruisers, as shown in Table 3 below.



- 11 
Table 3:  Available Beds 1986-89
Year   Hotels   Cruisers*     Total     Annual      Occupancy Rate
Growth     Hotel's categorv
High Low Cruisers
1986   3572       1811        5383        ---     46  26   46
1987   3901       2435        6336        181     64  35   64
1988   4444       3126        7570        14X     66  56   66
est.1989 5288     4475        9763        29S     69  56   69
* Only 50S attributed to Luxor
Source: Egyptian Hotel Guide/Ministry of Tourism
7.03 As a result, the actual average bed-night (numler of tourists multiplied
by number of nights of stay) between 1980-1989 has increased by 11% per annum
compared to the estimates of 7% at the time of appraisal. Moreover, occupancy
rates in 1988 and early 1989 are back to levels of between 90Z to 100% of the
occupancy for the peak season (October to April) and have established new
highs for the mid and off-season months, despite the major growth in hotel
accommodation capacity. Seasonal closing of hotels no longer exists.
7.04 Judging from the faster growth in 5-star hotels and cruisers, it is
clear that Luxor is attracting considerably more high spending tourists. This
has contributed to the rapid growth of net incremental foreign exchange
earnings in Luxor2, which in 1989 reached an estimated LE 130 million
equivalent compared to the appraisal forecast of LE 30 million equivalent for
1990. The devaluation of the Egyptian pound against the hard currencies leads
to an adjustment of the growth of foreign exchange to only about US $60
million. This figure was, however, estimated at US $43 million at appraisal.
The Government's policy of charging hotel room rates, package tours, and air
line tickets in US dollars for non-Egyptians has contributed to sustain
foreign exchange revenues despite the considerable devaluation of the Egyptian
pound.
7.05 The economic evaluation of the project's benefits and expenditures at
Luxor is based on the assumption that, without the project, the capacity of
Luxor to absorb the increase in the number of visitors would have been
constrained by delays in the provision of sufficient hotel accommodation due
to inadequate infrastructure. It has also been assumed that without the
project, the occupancy rates in hotels would have been greater than with the
project, due to the growth in demand not being met by a corresponding growth
in supply of hotel rooms.
7.06 For the economic evaluation, project costs and related government
investments in infrastructure and services have been defined as those relevant
to tourism in Luxor. Costs and benefits are from data collected till 1989, and
2/ Foreign exchange earnings calculation is based upon tourists
expenditures (Part III, Table 9).



- 12 -
are assumed to remain constant after 1990 up to 2009. The benefits of the
project have been measured by the number of visitor-nights spent at Luxor and
the average expenditures of visitors per night, which is estimated at 1988
prices to be LE 170 for higher category hotels (3, 4 and 5 stars), LE 60 for
lower categories (1 and 2 stars), and LE 250 for the Nile cruisers.
Investments in project components and incremental investments in hotels, Nile
cruisers and shops serving tourists have been adjusted to 1988 prices.
7.07 On this basis, and taking into account the increases in visitors made
possible by the project, the internal rate of return for all project-related
investments at Luxor is estimated at 17%, compared to the 13% estimated at
appraisal. This assumes constant receipts and costs till the year 2009, with
increasing maintenance costs in the early nineties, following the considerable
buildup of hotel capacity in the late eighties. In broad terms, this return
is attributable to the increase in the number of tourists due to the removal
of infrastructure constraints, the improvement of tourism services, the
increase in service reliability, and to the major buildup in tourist volume
after the 1986 slump due to the world-wide cutbacks in tourism caused by
regional unrest and hijacking.
7.08 The internal rate of return is not seriously affected by fluctuation in
occupancy within the relevant range. A reduction of 10% in bed-nights (as
happened in 1986), that might occur for example in two consecutive years (1992
and 1993, or again in 1996 and 1997), would not reduce the return by any
appreciable amount.
7.09 The similarity in the basic elements of hotel benefits (bed-nights)
calculated at 791,000 and the appraisal forecast of 690,000, is in sharp
contrast with the major difference in cruiser bed nights (687,000 now versus
50,000 at appraisal). The appraisal could not have envisaged the explosion in
Nile cruiser demand and capacity, which seems to have been caused by the
growing appeal of this type of Luxor-Aswan cruisers.
7.10 Finally, because cruiser ownership and operation is less constrained by
permits and authorization than hotel construction and operation, and because
cruiser construction takes less time than hotel construction, cruisers were
able to respond to the large growth in demand between 1986 and 1989, without
affecting the bed-nights actually spent in existing and new hotels.
The Abu Simbel Component
7.11 The project components at Abu Simbel comprised the renovation and
expansion of the small Nefertari Hotel near the temple, together with minor
road improvements and an improved telecommunications link. An important part
of the benefits to the hotel was dependent on changes in Egypt Air's travel
policy to Abu Simbel. Egypt Air could have targeted its first and last daily
flights to Abu Simbel from Aswan to those passengers wishing to spend the
night at the renovated and enlarged hotel. This change has not been realized,
because it turned out to be more convenient for Egypt Air to operate an air
shuttle service between Aswan and Abu Simbel with passengers spendirg the



- 13 -
minimum time on the ground. This situation, where visitors are allowed only
two hours on the ground at Abu Simbel, is detrimental to the better
utilization of the Nefertari Hotel. However, the improvements in road and bus
services from Aswan, completed 'ast year, have made buses the main transport
facility for those staying at the hotel.
7.12 In spite of the constraints posed by the flight arrangements, the bed
occupancy rate at the Nefertari Hotel has increased from 28X in 1988 to over
40X in 1989. Business at the hotel should continue to grow. Conservative
estimates indicate that the occupancy rate should reach 50% in 1990 and about
55% thereafter, mainly as a result of increased visitor traffic by bus from
Aswan. Valuing the investments made in the hotel at 1988 prices, and also
basing future earnings and costs in 1988 prices, the internal rate of return
would be 14%. This compares with the 15% estimated at appraisal. Low
operating costs, in relation to the prices which can be charged to the
category of visitors coming to Abu Simbel, are expected to lead to
satisfactory financial profits, even at the present 40% occupancy rate.
7.13 Net foreign exchange earnings at the Nefertari Hotel are estimated in
1989 prices at approximately LE 0.9 million annually, compared with the
appraisal estimates of LE 0.65 million for 1990. In US dollars, the estimate
is $400,000 annually, compared to $900,000 at appraisal3. This low earning is
also due to the isolation of the hotel from the main stream of tourists
travelling to Abu Simbel by Egypt Air, as explained above.
8.0 ImDact of the Proiect
8.01 The project contributed to the alleviation of the infrastructure
constraints hindering tourism development in Luxor and Abu Simbel. It gave
Luxor the capacity to develop its hotel accommodation, helped secure
additional foreign exchange for the country, and provided the population of
Luxor with additional income from tourist expenditures. The project also
directly and indirectly improved the employment opportunities and increased
earnings of the individuals working in the tourism sector. The project's
effect on employment generation4 turned out to be higher than estimated at
appraisal, with about 10,000 new jobs directly attributable to the project
versus about 6,000 jobs estimated at appraisal. This higher increase results
from a 2,280 increase in hotel/cruiser beds over appraisal estimates. Workers
in the new hotels are virtually all Egyptians, mostly from Upper Egypt and
belonging to low income groups.
8.02 The project works in infrastructure, roads and sidewalks at Luxor have
provided better facilities for Luxor citizens. The organization and extension
of docking facilities, which have provided water services, sewerage and waste
I/ Same comment as footnote 2.
'/ Calculated on the basis of 1.5 new jobs per
each additional room in hotels and cruisers.



- 14 -
disposal, and imposed hygienic restrictions cn Nile cruisers, have
considerably improved the environmental conditions of the Nile shores.
9.0 Proiect Sustainability
9.01 The project benefits are expected to be largely sustainable. The income
generated from tourism, if properly targeted, is sufficient to ensure the
maintenance of project components and their viability, and even to accommodate
the future expansion of the completed facilities. At the time of project
closing, contracts were ready to be signed with a specialized company for the
management, maintenance, and operation of the docking facilities and the lower
pedestrian walkways and shops at the corniche. The selected company is to
ensure cost recovery from docking cruisers and the collection of rents from
shopkeepers for MTCA. A contract was also signed with the MTC to operate the
Visitor Center and to organize the transfer of tourists to the West Bank of
the Nile. In additions, MTCA has signed a contract with a private company
for maintenance of trees and plants and cleaning of the touristic areas at
Luxor.
10.0 Bank Performance
10.01 The Bank's performance was mixed. The Bank studied the project in great
detail and spent a great deal of time on preparation and appraisal. However
in its desire to achieve many priority objectives, the Bank helped make the
project excessively complex. The Bank was overly optimistic in expecting that
basic changes would be made in existing Egyptian institutions and their mode
of operation. It also overestimated the capabilities of the Borrower to
implement such a complex project. The abolition of the Bank's Tourism
Department in 1978 and the frequent changes 5n the supervision staff',
impeded the establishment of a smooth, continuous dialogue with the numerous
project entities. In retrospect, it seems that the concentration of the
project appraisal and supervision efforts on the numerous physical components
led to insufficient attention being given to the institutional and managerial
components.
11.0 Borrower Performance
11.01 The Borrower's performance was also mixed. The Borrower contributed to
the delays in effectiveness; did not cause the project executing entities to
adhere to the provisions of the audit covenants; was clow in its decision to
award some of the contracts; lacked the necessary commitment to implement the
components related to the Egyptian Museum and the protection of the West Bank
Tombs; and carried out only part of the institutional and managerial
improvements envisaged. The Borrower also had difficulties in compiling
5 The responsibilities for the project was transferred from the Central
Tourism Department to the Central Urban Department in 1978, then to EMENA Urban
Division in 1984, and then to the EMENA Infrastructure Division III, in 1987.



- 15 -
reliable statistical data about investments, number of tourists visiting
Luxor, and visitors' expenditures.
11.02 Whenever requested, MTCA assisted in applying pressure to accelerate the
implementation of certain components.   Notwithstanding its limited leverage
over the several implementing agencies, the Ministry's Project Unit, managed,
albeit with delays, to coordinate the physical aspects of the project (except
with the EAO, para 4.01). MTCA was, nevertheless, less effective in
coordinating and enforcing the institutional and organizational components.
12.0 Bank - Borrower RelationshiD
12.01 The relationship between Bank's missions and the Government and its
implementing entities was generally good, except that interaction with the EAO
did not lead to any tangible achievements.
13.0 Consulting Services
13.01 Consultants performed their design assignments satisfactorily but with
some delays in producing the required documents specially for the Egyptian
Museum. The consultants' supervision of construction at the Luxor corniche
and their help with reporting, enforcing schedules, and adherence to deadlines
were not totally satisfactory. Most of the consultants reports to the P.U.
were too short and did not include sufficient details. Little attention was
given to enforcement of schedules and deadlines during the consultants
supervision of the corniche construction.
14.0 Proiect Documentation and Data
14.01 The legal documents were too numerous and complicated (one credit
agreement, four project agreements, eight subsidiary loan agreements, and
numerous side letters). The appraisal report was comprehensive and provided a
useful framework for the review of project implementation. The data needed to
prepare the PCR was difficult to collect due to the long time that elapsed
during project implementation and the frequent changes in the staff assigned
to supervision responsibilities. The statistical data available in the
country on investments at Luxor, and on the number of visiting tourists,
duration of their stay, and expenditures were difficult to reconcile and often
not available, despite the frequent requests and efforts to collect this
information.
15.0 Status of Covenants
15.01 Except for the covenants related to Audits, cost recovery, and removal
of price controls, other covenants were complied with, or at closing date of
the credit were under implementation.



- 16 -
16.0 Lessons Learned
16.01 In retrospect, it seems that the concentration of the project
supervision efforts on the numerous physical components led to insufficient
attention being given to the institutional and managerial components. For
future endeavors, the Bank should design simpler projects, be more realistic
in assessing the possibility of introducing changes in institutions marginally
involved in the project, and should allocate more diversified resources to
supervise projects of such a complicated nature.



- 17 -
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
(Credit 909-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(text as submitted by Borrower)
This part includes summary of key issues related to the project, an
analysis of project implementation including critical variances between
planned and actual which reflect the changes that occurred in the scope of the
project as well as the total project cost and duration.
1.0   General issues of Implementation Experience
1.01   Original completion date was unrealistic for such a complicated project
consists of three geographically separate parts (Luxor/Abu Simbel and /Cairo
Museum),
1.02 The main managerial problems occurred during the first year (from the
effectiveness date by March 1980) were due to the several legal agreements
(Credit Agreement and eight subsidiary and four project agreements) which
needed time to be understood and applicable and:
1.03 The several implementing agencies most of which were not familiar with
IDA guidelines and procedures to be followed in particular for; preparation of
design and tender documents, bidding, evaluation, awarding of contracts etc.
and;
1.04 The coordination difficulties between those agencies during the
preparation or the execution which affected the adherence to the original
optimistic time tables.
1.05 Some critical factors and actions that affected project implementation
(time & costs) that were not foreseen during project design such as:
Land acquisition procedures, removal & relocation of exis,.ing obstacles some
of which could not have foreseen due to the nature of Luxor as an
archeological site, accordingly it was necessary to change design plans before
starting or during execution.
1.06 The delays of procurement procedures mostly were due to variances
between the credit procurement conditions and the local executive regulations.
2.0   Consulting Services
2.01 Consultants played a major role in carrying out the relevant studies and
the preparation of design and tender documents for some components, the actual
elapsed time exceeded the planned in particular as regard duration of



- 18 -
reviewing and acceptance of their reports, products and recommendations in
addition to difficulties in collection of needed data and information.
3.0   Contractors Performance
3,01 Both foreign and local contractors role affected implementation
schedules due to reasons beyond their control such as facing some obstacles,
shortage in the main building materials or due to their slow advance in
procuring sufficient labor force specially from abroad and storing enough
material to complete the works
4.0   Project Implementation and Results
4.01 The following are the most critical variances between planned and
actual, and the impact of those variances on scope of work and total project
cost and duration:
4.02  ComRonents have been cancelled: but its objectives have been achieved as
follows:
A)    Study No. N (vi)
-    As the plan of a 5 year program for development of museums,
antiquities sites and sounds and light projects was already
prepared by EAO, a copy of which has been sent to IDA,
accordingly we received IDA TLX dated 6/2/83 as regard their
no objection on the cancellation since the oversaid plan
fulfill the study objectives.
B)    Luxor Hotel Renovation
-     Several proposals had been presented to IDA due to changes
occurred as regard the concept of he project, ownership and
management (it had been taken back from EGOTH to the
Egyptian Hotel Company responsibility) therefore IDA mission
(dated Nov. 85) recommended that this component should be
deleted from the project. A contract has been signed on
December 1985 with a private sector contractor for a project
involving only the up-grading of the existing 78 rooms which
IDA had earlier agreed on.
-     Due to delays occurred by the said
contractor who failed to fulfill his
obligations, on July 89 EHCO terminated
the contract in order to recommence
renovations works by a new contractor.
-     During LDA mission in September 1987, it
was agree. that unless the issues related
to the finalization of the agreement with



- 19 -
the company expected to renovate, extend
and manage the Hotel are resolved before
end of 1987, it would be impossible to
complete it within available time. In
December 1987 EHCO decided to carry out
the renovation works using their own
resources, actually the hotel has been
renovated and it 'being managed by a
private joint ve.~ture management company.
4.03 Components have been discontinued:
A)    The Renovation of the Egyptian Museum
Progress of this cGmponent have been very
disappointing, the cause for the slippage occurred
during all phases since 1989 could be summarized as
follows:
1.    The elapsed period for completion of study
N (v), (study and formulation of a long -
term program for the Egyptian Museum)
about 3 years,
-     in 1980 EAO signed the contract with the ICOM for
carrying out the said study.
-     in 1981 EAO prepared modified TOR to be in conformity
with the conceptual base for the renovation
requirements, accordingly a supplementary agreement
had been signed with ICOM in August 1981.
-     in September 1982 EAO again changed and amended the
conceptual foundation for the renovation to include
renovation for existing building; the construction of
a new wing with estimated cost 10 million L.E,,
accordingly the two parties signed exchange letters
upon which the ICOM proceed with the assignment up to
preparation and acceptance of final report including
estimated cost of 13 million L.E. excluding design
consulting service fees.
2.    The elapsed period for the second phase for preparation of
working drawings and tender documents:
-     starting date April 1983: (invitation to a short list
consultants).



- 20 -
negotiation with the consultant ranked No. (1)
(Pfeiffer) took place for more than one year since
July 83 and concluded to disagreement.
so negotiation took place with No. (2) and had been
concluded to signing the contract on March 85, the
elapsed time since IDA's approval of the draft
contract on August 84 (i.e. about 7 months) were lost
duie to slow progress in receiving the approval first
by the Council of State, and second, by the Ministry
of Housing since this contract concerns a joint
venture between a public sector firm Arab Bureau and
expatriate consulting office (TAC).
The planned date for submission and approval of final
design and tender documents was by February 1986.
-     Due to delays occurred revised time agreed by IDA
mission providing that:
-     Completion of said documents
for the new wing by Dec. 86.
-     Completion of said documencs
for the existing building by
May 87.
-    Actual completion and appro"v1
on the complete set of tht.v
said drawings and documents
was by 1988.
Hence it was clear that more than two years bave been lost in the
design work and that on the most optimistic assumption 3i a construction time
(excluding bidding procedures) it was impossible for IDA to participate in
financing the actual work and the assistance was limited to finance the final
design, as well as assurance by EAO that they assume responsibility for
implementing the agreed designs from their ownL resources.
B.    Tombs Protection
After completion and approval of study N(l) final report and
upon its recommendations, the selected items to be
implemented involved tombs protection works, so EAO prepared
on January 1985 a plan for protective works to serve
selected tombs in the Valley of Kings and the area of the
Tombs of Nobles.



* 21 -
Since that date several different proposals have been
planned changing the number, the selection or the system of.
protection of which none has been implemented.
On November 86 the contract was signed with the Swedish
Group for the protection of NAKHT tomb using the glazed
tunnel technique which was completed by May 1988.
A new proposal for applying the same technique for the
protection of another 8 tombs had been submitted by EAO but
they were unable to take definite decision in this respect
up to the end of 88.
-     During March 1989 IDA's mission agreed
with EAO's Chairman on the appointment of
a team of international experts to review
the work already completed at the tomb of
NAKHT and to prepare recommendation for
the further protection for the four
selected tombs. The team of experts has
been recruited by IDA and financed by the
UNDP, and carried out the assignment
during May 89, their report including
recommendation was received by July 7th,
89, upon which EAO requested IDA approval
on starting needed procedures for the
implementation, due to the remaining time
to closing date which is insufficient to
complete these procedures and works, IDA
suggested to seek another source of
finance for this component.
So it is disappointing that delays in taking definite decisions in
due time caused the loss of the allocated funds for two major important
components (i.e.) renovation of the Cairo Museum and west bank tombs
protection which are considered cultural heritage.
C.    Solid Waste Disnosal : (To Be Carried out by Luxor City Council)
-     IN 1981 a selected list of cleaning vehicles and equipment
were procured as first phase which costs about 80000 L.E.
-     In order to proceed with the remaining actions to be done
LCC prepared purchasing documents for another list of
equipment as second phase as well as their proposed system
for management, and drawings prepared for the workshop,
submitting the said documents to IDA for reviewing, IDA
required and before approving en procuring any other
equipment it is necessary to plan including (operation



- 22 -
system, collecting system and locations disposal system,
management plan, manpower and financial sources).
So P.U. - in order to facilitate - carried out the needed
procedures up to the preparation of a draft agreement with
the selected consultant provided that the assignment
duration fixed by 6 months with total costs 29000 L.E.
The said agreement had been discussed during IMCC meeting in
Luxor attended by Qena Governor on May 82 during which the
Governor disapprove to follow IDA's request and decided to
complete and carry out the city cleaning and solid waste
disposal by LCC crew' and to be financed from their own
resources.
In this respect a contract was signed with a specialized
company "Care Service" for the cleaning of the city
including the airport terminal, Corniche ro#d and the
maintenance of the planted areas.
4.04 Variances between planned concept design and actual:
A.    Roads
1.    Luxor Corniche Comoonent
In the light of description of the said
component stated in the Credit Agreement, the
responsible agency "RBA" prepared layout
including the existing and proposed design for
the road, stabilization of the river bank,
pedestrian promenade and the construction of the
planned ferry docks, submitting the drawings to
IDA mission in November 1989 they determined
that there must be the most careful integration
of different facilities in this area and that a
consultant be engaged to develop a detailed
master development plan for the Corniche
provided that the construction should be carried
out under a single contract, and that a
committee comprising all concerned agencies
should be formed to review all procedures and
details during preparation of design, bidding
and execution.
-     T.O.R. for the required assignment fora the
consultant was prepared by IDA mission and P.U.
including objectives, scope of work, all the
needed facilities to be provided on the Corniche
upgrading plan and limiting the cost of all



- 23 -
items works excluding infrastructure to no more
than the budgeted amount of L.E. 1.5 million.
-    Accordingly the needed procedures took place as
follows:
- Contract signature with Consultant        Aug. 81
- Acceptance of Master Plan                 Nov. 82
- Acceptance of Final Design                Feb. 84
- Invitation to bidders                     Oct. 84
- Contract Signature                        July 85
- Actual execution           (Jan. 86 up to Oct 89)
It is obvious that changing the concept and objectives of this
component affected the implementation's costs and duration due to the
following:
2.    West Bank Roads
Funds allocate to this component amount to around L.E. 93000
(excluding the share of this component in contingencies) was
insufficient for the improvements to the West Bank road
network serving the main temples and tombs.
-    During implementation it was agreed that it should be
executed in accordance with recommendations of study N(l),
accordingly the actual improvements included the following:
-     some roads required major rebuilding and
the rest had been   maintained and
resurfaced.
-     the construction of two new road links to
allow easy access   to Medinet Habu and
Valley of the Kings. The total actual
cost of this component amount to about
L.E. one million.
B.   Luxor Airport Terminal Building
-    The total allocated base cost to this component under
civil work and equipment was L.E. 2,32 million and
including the share of it in the contingencies came to
around L.E. 3,4 million of which a sum equivalent to
about US$ 2.6 million as IDA participation from the
credit budget.
-     During preparing tender documents by the consultant it
was clear that the said sum is insufficient to cover
all items proposed.



- 24 .
The major sources of the difference between the latest
cost based on final design and the appraisal estimates
are:
a)    The substantially larger size of the terminal with
providing a larger facilities adequate to handle
international and domestic flights simultaneously.
b)    The use of more elaborate equipment and inclusion of
the baggage systems and a central air conditioning
system because of the high heat and the prevalence of
dust storms which make natural ventilation
impractical.
c)    The provision of an exterior power substation and sand
- by generator building and a temporary sewage
disposal system.
Accordingly the total value of the signed
contract for the construction of the agreed
working drawings came to US $ 2.2 million for
the imported equipment and about L.E. 8 million
as value of civil works, IDA accepted provided
that its contribution should be limited by 100l
of the foreign currencies and only 8 X of the
civil works total value (i.e.) equals the
allocated sum to this component, P.U.
contribution was about 12% of the same works
from the allocated local budget, the remaining
costs had been covered by ECAO from their own
budget.
Implementation for remaining components are
mostly with the planned either as regard design
or costs except for the telecommunication items
costs which achieved savings of about 50X of the
allocated in the Credit Agreement, our point of
view a part of the said savings occurred due to
procurement procedures (schedule No. 3 of the
Credit Agreement) according to which it was
permitted to procure telephone equipment
directly from suppliers through negotiated
contracts.
4.05 Results of the above mentioned variances on proiect costs:
By closing of project accounts on June 30th, 1990 the while project
costs in US $ would incur a saving of about 9.7 million distributed as
follows:



- 25 -
A.    Allocation and expenditures for civil works:
1.    Despite the cost cverruns occurred in the civil works for
Luxor infrastructure in particular roads component and the
air terminal buildings the total disbursed amount of the
credit to category (1-A) of Schedule I would be about US $ 8
million (i.e.) the allocated amount to the said category and
only one million of the unallocated amount, reasons could be
summarized as follows:
-     IDA contribution had been
limited to the allocated
amount as previously mentioned
for air terminal building.
-     The changes occurred in the
exchange rate of US $ affected
the reimbursed equivalent
amounts.
-    A part of the extra costs had
been covered by the allocated
amounts to the cancelled
components (Luxor Hotel -
Solid Waste Disposal and Tombs
Protection).
2.    As the construction works for Part 0 (The Egyptian Museum)
had not been financed out of the proceeds of the credit, so
the allocated amount of US $ 1.5 million remained
undisbursed.
B.    The allocated amount of the credit to equipment, furniture and
fixtures incurred saving of about two million dollars due to:
Savings incurred by
telecommunications as
previously mentioned.
The undisbursed amounts for
the Cairo Museum, tombs
protection and Luxor
Hotel.
C.    The allocated amount to category (3 + 4) of schedule I (consulting
services) incurred savings of about 200,000 US $ due to the cancellation
of study N (6).
Accordingly the distribution of the above said undisbursed amount
of 9,7 million dollars:



26
Category 1 - b              - 1,5
2                   - 2,0
3 + 4               - 0,2
(5) unallocated     - 6.0
9,7
-     While project cost in L.E. will be 100% of the allocated budget amount
of 18,55 million, excluding the extra costs with total amount about 12 million
for some components (air terminal building, the said extra costs had been
financed from the relevant agencies own budget).



- 27 -
PART 111
EGYPT TOURISM: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 1.    Project Timetable
Item                    Planned        Elapsed    ActuaL        ELtapsed
Time in                  Time in
Weeks *                  Years
Identification         05-Apr-77                05-Apr-77         0.00
Preparation             15-Oct-77          28   15-Oct-77         0.53
05-Dec-77        0.67
20-Jan-78        0.79
29-Mar-78        0.98
15-Nay-78        1.11
Appraisal Mission      24-Jul-78           68   24-Jul-78         1.30
Post Appraisal                                  15-Oct-78         1.53
Credit Negotiation     10-Apr-79          105   10-Apr-79         2.01
Board Approval          17-May-79         110   17-May-79         2.12
Credit Signature        13-Jun-79         114   13-Jun-79         2.19
Credit Effectiveness   13-Nov-79          136   26-Mar-80         2.98
Credit Closing         31-Dec-85          456   31-Dec-89        12.75
Credit Completion      31-Dec-84          404   31-Dec-89        12.75
e ............  .... .  ........... ...... .......  ..... ......... ...... ........... ...... ..... ..... ..... 
*    Elapesd time calculated from date of project identification.
Notes:
i Original completion date was unrealistic for such a complex project
(5.6 years from Board approval). The implementatlon profile for les cotplicated projects
is about 9 years for Egypt.
- The first reference to the project in file was on July 11, 1972.
-   Preparation took several missions due to complexity and the numfro4  institutions Involved
in project implementatlon.
- Credit effectiveness was delayed by 4.5 months as a result of delays In executing
the several subsidiary credit agreements.
- Closing date has been postponed four times due to delays in inplem_ntation.
Source: Project Files



_ 28 -
EGYPT TOURISM: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 2. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
Semester        Appraisal Estimates                  Actual
Ending       ...........................    ................................
Disbursed  Cumulative As X    Disbursed  Cumulative  Actual as
of Estimated                   X of Estimated
.              ................................   . ............................. . ...........
JuDe 30,1979       0.00      0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00
Dec. 31,1979       0.00      0.00     0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00
June 30,1980       0.00      0.00     0.00        0.00      0-00     -
Dec. 31,1980       0.40      0.40      1.23       0.22      0.22     0.68
June 30,1981       0.80      1.20     3.69        0.62      0.84     2.58
Dec. 31,1981       1.60      2.80     8.62        2.62      3.46    10.65
June 30,1982       4.20      7.00    21.54        1.56      5.02    15.45
Dec. 31,1982       5.60     12.60    38.77        2.09      7.11    21.88
June 30,1983       6.20     18.80    57.85        1.29      8.40    25.85
Dec. 31,1983       4.40     23.20    71.38        1.24      9.64    29.66
June 30,1984       4.00     27.20    83.69        2.77     12.41    38.18
Dec. 31,1984       3.90     31.10    95.69        1.38     13.79    42.43
June 30,1985       1.40     32.50   100.00        1.02     14.81    45.57
Dec. 31,1985                                      1.14     15.95    49.08
June 30,1986                                      0.42     16.37    50.37
Dec. 31,1986                                      0.33     16.70    51.38
June 30.1987                                      0.60     17.30    53.23
Dec. 31.1987                                      0.48     17.78    54.71
June 30,1988                                      0.82     18.60    57.23
Dec. 31,1988                                      0.92     19.52    60.06
June 30,1989                                      0.71     20.23    62.25
Dec. 31. 1989                                     0.67     20.90    64.31
Jan. 31,1990                                      1.17     22.07    67.92
By closing of accounts
an Aprtil 30, 1990                                1.03     23.10    71.08
Note:
The undisbursed amount of US 89.4 million (about 29X of the credit)
has been cancelled by closing of project accounts on April 30, 1990.
Source: Project Files



- 29 -
EGYPT TCURISM: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 3: Mission Data
.................. ...................................... .... ...... ...... ........... ........ ................. ... ...............
Type of          Month/   No. of  Days in       Performance      Type of
Mission          Year     Persons  Field          Rating         Problems
..... .......... .. ..................... ............................................ ......... ................. ..... .... .............
A- Up to Appraisal
... ...........
Reconaissace     12/73         2       15    Not Applicable
Identification   4/77         2        15    Not Applicable
Preparation 1    10/77         2       15    Not Applicable
Preparation 11   12/77         1       15    Not ApplicabLe
Preparation III  1/78          1        7    Not Applicable
Preparation IV   2/78          1        7    Not Applicable
Preparation V    3/78          2       11    Not Applicable
Preparation VI   5/78          1        7    Not Applicable
Discussions      7/78          1        5    Not Applicable
-- Appraisal - Board Approval
............ ................ ....
Appraisal        7/78         12       21    Not Applicable
Post appraisal   10/78         3        7    Not Applicable
Discussions*     12/78         1       10    Not Applicable
Discussions*     1/79          1        7    Not Applicable
Visit to UNESCO  5/79          2        5    Not Applicable
C- Board Approval - Effectiveness
... ........ .... ...... ................
Mission          10/79         3       15          2              Managerial
Consultative Grp.12/79         1        8    Hot Applicable
mission          2/80          4       15          2              Managerial
Mission          3/80          4       12          2              Managerial
Mission          6/80          2       11          2              Managerial
D- Supervision
Suevso  12........ ..........
Supervision I    11/80         2       14          2              Managerial
Supervision 11   3/81          2        8          3              Managerial
Supervision III 6/81           1        3          3              ManageriaL
Supervision IV   12/81         2        6          3              Managerial
Supervsison V    4/82          2        6          3              ManiageriaL
Supervision VI   10/82        3        19          3              Managerial
Consultative Grp.11/82         1        2    Not Applicable
Supervision Vil 6/83           1        7          2              Managerial
Consultative Grp.7/83          1        2    Not Applicable
Supervision Vil 1/84          1        7          2        Managerial/imnplementation
Supervision IX   2/85          1       14          2       Managerial/implementation
Table 3 (continued)
Supervision X    10/85         2       14          2       Managerial/implementation
Supervision Xi  5/86           1        7          3       Managerial/implementati )n
Supervision XIl  4/87          2       14          3       Managerial/inplementation
Supervision Xill 9/87          2       10          3        Managerial/implementation
Supervision XIV  4/88          1        7          3       Managerial/inpleementation



- 30 -
Tablo 3 (continyed)
upervision XV   1018          2        15          3       Nnagerlat/Implementation
Supervision XVI 4/09          1        15          3       Nanagerial/inptementation
upervision/
Copletion        11/89        2       21           3       Netwgerial/iuplementation
Note:
The   in monagpral  problem ver due to coordination
difficulttes between the srra; al; empnting agencies, the lndecisivness
of the EbA toswads the inplesentaeion of the Cairo Nuseu
wnd the reluctanco of somr project entitles to enforce the institutional
reform  eawisagd at apprisa.
Source: Project Files



- 31 -
EGYPT TOURISM OMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 4.      Appraisal and Actual Cost
(in Miltion)
............................................................................................
Item                  Appraisal Estimate            Actual                   Difference
......... ................................... ...........................   ..........................
LE         Sus        LE        SWs             LE            Sus
............................................................................................
1. Infrastructure (Luxor)
......................
Roads, Corniche & Landings       2.34       3.61       8.27       9.88          5.93          6.27
Water Distribution               1.00       1.57       2.48      .2.47          1.48          0.91
Solid Waste                      044        0.71       0.13       0.13         -0.31         -0.58
ELectric Works                   7.72      11.05       7.94       8.05          0.22         -3.00
Telecommunication                3.34       5.28       1.19       1.26         -2.15         -4.02
Airport Building                 3.41       5.53       9.54       8.20          6.13          2.66
Subtotal                    18.25     27.75      29.55      30.00         11.30           2.25
2. Archaeological Sites
......................
West Sank Tombs &
Other Sites                      0.67       1.10       1.72       1.34          1.05          0.24
Visitor Center &
West Bank Facilities             1.00       1.63       5.57       5.95          4.57          4.33
Subtotal                     1.67       2.73      7.28       7.30          5.62           4.57
3. Accommodation (Luxor)
......................
Hotet Training School            4.07       5.10       7.20      6.79           3.12          1.70
Luxor Hotel                      7.96       8.19       0.00      0.00          -7.96         -8.19
Subtotal                    12.03      13.28      7.20       6.79         -4.83          -6.49
4. Abu Sifbel Facilities
......................
Infrastructure                   0.97       1.58       2.88      0.79           1.91         -0.79
Nefertari Notel                  1.24       1.85       0.95       0.42         -0.29         -1.43
Subtotal                     2.21       3.43      3.82       1.21           1.62         -2.22
5. Egyptian Museum                  4.52       6.77       0.00       0.00         -4.52         -6.77
......................
6. Technical Assistance &
Professional Services            1.52       3.19       3.14       4.29          1.62          1.10
.........................
7. Land Aquisition                  0.23       0.38       1.29       1.29          1.06          0.91
......................
8. Project Adminstration            0.91       1.48       2.29       2.14          1.38          0.67
......................
TOTAL COSTS                     41.34      59.03      54.59     53.04          13.24         -5.99
............................................................................................
Source: ProJect Unit at TCA



- 32 -
EGYPT TOURISM COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 5. Project Expenditure
(in USS Nitlion)
Item                        I        IDA Expenditure I    Goverrment ExpenditurI             Total          I Difference as
I    *--------..-       . I    ..............   .        .. I---------------------- I   Percentage
I    Appraisal     ActualI    Approisal        ActualI 
I    Estimate             I    Estimate              I  Appraisal       Actual I
...........................  ----------- ---------------........................I........................ III,,,,,
Infrastructure (Luxor)      I                         I                           I
......................      I                         I                           I
Roads, Corniche & Landings 1        1.55         3.29 1         2.06        6.59 1        3.61         9.88 1       173.62
Water Distribution          I       0.97         0.45 I         0.60        2.02 I        1.57         2.47 1        57.92
Solid Waste                 I       0.57         0.08 I         0.14        0.05 I        0.71         0.13 I       -81.59
Electric Works              I       7.90         4.94 I        3.15         3.12 I       11.05         8.05 I        -27.13
Tetecommunication           I       3.88         0.85 1         1.40        0.42 I        5.28         1.26 1       -76.08
Airpo.t Building            I       2.98         3.40 I         2.55        4.80 I        5.53         8.20 I        48.14
Subtotal                I      17.85        13.00 I        9.90        17.00 I       27.75       30.00 1          8.10
I                         I                          I                          I
Archaological Sites         I                         I                           I                         I
......................
West Bank TombsB            I                         I                           I                         I
Other Sites                 I       0.70         0.69 I         0.40        0.65 I        1.10         1.34 I        22.20
Visitor Center &            I                         I                           I                         I
West Bank Facilities        I       0.82         2.66 I         0.82        3.30 I        1.63         5.96 I       264.89
Subtotal                I       1.52         3.35 I        1.22         3.95 I        2.73         7.30 I       167.23
Accommodation (Luxor)       I                         I                           I                         I
........................                 I                                       I                          I
Hotel Trainning School      I       1.58         3.45 I        3.52         3.34 I        5.10         6.79 1        33.33
Luxor Hotel                 '       2.70         0.00 I        5.49         0.00 I        8.19         0.00 I      -100.00
Subtotal                I       4.28         3.45 I        9.01         3.34 I       13.28         6.79 I       -48.85
Abu Simbel Facilities       I                         I                           I                         I
... ......................                                                                                I
Infrastructure              I       0.80         0.53 I        0.78         0.26 I        1.58         0.79 I       -49.83
Nefertari Hotel             I       0.88         0.42 I        0.97         0.00 I        1.85         0.42 I       -77.30
Subtotal                I       1.68         0.95 I        1.75         0.26 I        3.43         1.21 I       -64.63
I                         I                          I                          I
Egyptian Museum             1       4.41         0.00 1         2.37        0.00 1        6.77         0.00 I      -100.00
.........................  I                         I
Technical Assistance &      I                         I                           I
.......................I                              I                           I                         I
Professional Services       I       2.61         2.34 I         0.58        1.95 I        3.19         4.29 I        34.31
......................      I                         I                           I                         I
I                         I                          I                          I
Land Aqufsition             I       0.00         0.00 I        0.38         1.29 I        0.38         1.29 I       237.57
.......................                 I                                        I                         I
Project AdminstratIon       1       0.16         0.00 I         1.32        2.14 1        1.48         2.14 1        45.11
... ......................                                                                                I
TOTAL IDA                   I      32.50        23.10 I       26.53        29.94 I       59.03        53.04 I       -10.15
Source:...........................................                                    ..............................
Source: ProJect Unit at RTCA



- 33 -
EGYPT TOURISM COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit C09)
Table 6. Tourist Arrivals and Number of Bed Nights
In Egypt
(in millions)
.............................................................
Year     No. of        Percent      No. of       Percent
Arriving     Yearly      Bed-Night    Yearly
Tourists      Increase                 Increase
.............................................................
1977        1.00                       6.3
1978        1.05          4.8          7.1         12.7
1979        1.06          1.2          7.1          0.0
1980        1.25         17.9          8.1         14.1
1981        1.38          9.7          9.8         21.0
1982        1.42          3.4          9.3         -5.1
1983        1.50          5.3          8.8         -5.4
1984        1.56          4.1          8.6         -2.3
1985        1.52         -2.7            9          4.7
1986        1.31        -13.6          7.8        -13.3
1987        1.80         36.9         15.9        103.8
1988        2.10         17.0           18         13.2
1989        2.40         14.3           21         16.7
.............................................................
The big percentage increase in the warker of bed-nights in 1987
is due to the trough in tourist arrivals in 1986, the stability
in Egypt and the change downward of the LE rate of exchange.
The average rate of increase of tourist arrivals in the eleven years
between 1978 and 1989 was 11.6 X per arnum.
Source: NTCA



- 34 -
EGYPT TURISN COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 7. Luxor Accomiodation and Occupancy Rates
................. ..........................................................................
Indicator                             Uithout Project        With Project  Average Yearly
(1980)               (1989)      Percent Change
...................................................................................
Visitor accomuodation (no. beds)
................................
High category hotels                           1509.00           4342.00              18.77
Lou category hotels                             267.00             946.00             25.43
Mile cruisers                                   400.00            4475.00            101.88
Total                                          2176.00            9763.00             34.87
Bad-Nights (in 000)
.............
High category hotels                            365.00            1094.00             19.97
Low category hotels                              54.00             193.00             25.74
Pile cruisers                                    97.00            1127.00            106.19
Toeal                                           516.00            2414.00             36.78
Total Occupency rates CX)
High category hotels                              66.2               69.0              0.42
Low category hotels                               55.3               56.0              0.13
Nile cruisers                                     66.2               69.0              0.42
Average                                           65.0               67.7              0.43
Day Visitors (in 000)                             20.0               60.0             20.00
...........................  ......................................................      
Source: Egyptian Notet Guide & NTCU



- 35 -
EGYPT tOtISUOPLETIO REPORT
(Credit 909)
Tabte 8.  Number of Tourists, Available leds, and lad-lights In Luaor
A- With the Project
............................. ..............................................
Number of AvailabLe Beds                 I MNuvbr of Tourist led-Nights (in 000)    I         Octpency Rat"s
High    Lou    Cruise   Total  X    I  High        Low     Cruise   Total  1    I  Nigh        Lo       Cruise
Year Category Category  Ships         Increasel Category Category  Ships         IneraBl Category Category  Ships
Hotels   Hotels                         I Hotels    Hotels                         I fotels    Mtoets
980   1509      267    400    2176          6    36S        54      97    s1s           I   6.20    SS.30   66.20
1981   1625      814    450    2889       331    347        128      96    s51         11    5.0S   43.01  S.S0
1982    1625     814    1262    3701      28 1    273       119     212    603        61 64.00    39.99   46.00
1983   2290      814    1439   4543       23I    346         105    217    669        11 I41.40    35.50   41.40
1984   3038      706    1696   5442       201    46          72    260      796       19 142.00    27.90   42.00
1985   2810      762    1811    5383      -1 6    S12       s8      330    969        16     49.90    31.40   49.90
1986   2810      762    1811   5383        01    472         72     304    646        -96   46.00      8.00  46.00
1987   2998      903    2435    6336      181    700        115    S69    1385       46       .00    311.00o  .00
1988   3660      784   3126    7570       196      875      160    747    175        2096S6S5    S6.00   6S.50
1989   4342      946    475    9763       29 1   1094       193    1127   2414       35     0.00    56.00  69.00
1990   4632      946   4475   10053        3 I    1167      193   1127   2487         3 1  69.00    S6.00   69.00
......................................................................................................................
B- Without Project
.............................................................................................................. .....
Nuber of Available Beds                  I Number of Tourist led-Nights (in 000)    6         Ocompaney tates
High    Low    Cruise  Total  S    I  High         Low     Cruise  Total  8    I  Nigh         Low      Cruise
Year Category Category  Ships         IncreIseg Category Category  Ships         Incresel Category Category  Ships
Hotels   Hotels                         I Hotels   Notels                          I Motels   Mottel
* --.-- --.----.**-------..6    .------------------------------------- I ..............
1980   1509      267    400    2176          1    36S        54      97    S1S           I  66.20   S5.30   66.20
1981    1625     596    450   2671        236      347      104      96    SO         61  5s.5o    48.01   58.50
1982    1625     596    1262   343        301    273         96     212    58         66 4.00    45.00  U.00
i983    1611     596    1439   3646        51    273         98     217    58          1646.40    45.00   41.40
1984    1719     488    1698   390S        71    295         80     260    63S        86   47.00    45.00   42.00
1985    1491     488    1698   3677       -61    299         s0    322      701      106   54.90    4S.00   51.90
1986    1491     488    1698   3677        01    278         80     297    4655      .6   1S.00    45.00   48.00
1987   1491      488    1698   3677        06      376       80     409    m         321  69.00   4S.00  66.00
1988    1491     488    1698   3677        01    381        109    418    906         S6   70.00    61.00   67.50
1989    1491     488    1698   3677        06      381      109    440    900         21  70.00    61.00   71.00
1990    1491     488    1698   3677        01    381        109    440    930         06   70.00    61.00  71.00
I
C- Difference in No. Beds                      Difference in gad-Nights (in 000)          0-Day Visitors
High    Lou    Cruise   Total             Hifh     Low     Cruise   Total
Year Category Category  Ships                  Category Category  Ships                   YT         W ith   Without Differene
Hotels   Hotels                           Motels   Hotels                                     Projet  Project
1980      0        0       0       0                 0        0       0       0               1960      a0      20           0
1981      0      218       0     218                 0       23       0      23               1901      at       24          0
1982      0      218       0     218                 0       21       0      21               1982      28      28           0
1983    679      218       0     897                73        8       0      81               1963      32       32          0
1984   1319      218       0    1537               171       -8       0     163               1964      36      36           0
1985    1319     274     113   1706                213        7       8     226               1965      40      40           0
1986    1319     274     113   1706                194       -8       ?     193               19JS      30      30           0
1987   1507      415     737   2659                325       3S     160    520                196?      50      40           10
1988   2169      296   1428   3893                 494       52     329    875                1960      5S      40          15
1989   2851      458   27       6086               713       8S     687    1484              1989       40      40          20
1990   3141      458   277    6376                 766       65     687    1S57               1990      60      40          20
Source Egyptian Hotel Cuids & MTCA



- 36 -
EGYPT TOURISM COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 9. Tourist Exponditures In 1989
(1988 Prices)
Type of               Expenditures by      Total Yearly    Incremental    Net Foreign Exchange
Accommodation           Tourists per Day     Expenditures       Tourist       Earnings in million
expenditure   ----------------
(LE)          (LE million)   (LE milion)    LE          SUs
A. At Luxor
High Category Hotels              170.00           185.98          121.21    42.42      18.85
Low Category Hotels                60.00            11.58            5.10      1.78      0.79
Mile Cruisers                     250.00           281.75          171.75    85.88      38.17
...... ........       ------     ........ ..
Average/Total                                      479.31          298.06   130.08      57.81
Day Visitors                       90.00             5.40            1.80      1.80      0.80
Total Expenditures                                 484.71          299.86   131.88      58.61
B. At Abu-Sinr*bel
, ............
Nefertari Hotel                   170.00             3.57            2.55     0.89       0.40
Net foreign exchange earnings were calculated by reducing expenditures
by 65X for hotels and 50X for cruisers to compensate for operation
and maintenance costs
Source: Project Unit at NTCA



EGYPT TOURISM: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 10. Luxor Investments and Benefits and Rates of Return
A. Investments   (in million LE in 1988 prices)                        B. Benefits   (in million LE in 1988 prices)
Year Infra-      Hotel      Hotets   Nile     Others   Total   I    Hotels        Hotels       Nile     Day       Net       Net
structure   training          Cruisers          Investmentsl       High        Low     Cruisers Visitors Operating  Benefits
school                                         I                                             Benefits    Stream
.............................................................I-----------------------------------------------------------------
1979     0.00      0.00     6.06      0.00     0.00        6.06 I        0.00         0.00     0.00     0.00        0.00    -6.06
1980     4.00      0.00    21.34      0.00     0.00       25.34 I        0.00         0.00     0.00     0.00        0.00   -25.34
1981     9.00      0.00    30.94      0.00     0.50       40.44 I        0.00         0.49     0.00     0.00        0.49   -39.95
1982     6.20      4.80    23.22      0.00     1.00       35.22 I        0.00         0.44     0.00     0.00        0.44   -34.78
1983    13.40      6.50    13.35      2.26     2.00       37.51 I        4.36         0.16     0.00     0.00        4.51   -33.00
1984    10.40      4.90    15.26      4.52     2.00       37.08 I       10.16        -0.17     0.00     0.00        9.99   -27.09
1985     9.00      1.90    23.56    17.00      3.00       54.46 I       12.68         0.15     1.02     0.00       13.85   -40.61
1986     6.90      0.60    27.48    43.30      2.00       80.28 I       11.56        -0.16     0.82     0.00       12.22   -68.06
1987     4.10      0.00    23.81    84.09      3.00      115.00 1       19.33         0.74    19.97     0.45       40.49   -74.51
1988     5.10      0.00    13.68    55.53      5.00       79.31 I       29.40         1.08    41.13     0.68       72.28    -7.03
1989    10.10      0.00      6.26     6.00     2.00       24.36 I       42.40         1.78    85.86     0.90      130.94   106.58
1990     1.00      0.00      3.00     6.00     1.00       11.00 I       46.74         1.78    85.86     0.90      135.28   124.28
1991     1.00      0.70      3.00     6.00     0.00       10.70 I       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   125.82
1992     2.00      0.70      4.50     6. n     0.30       13.50 1       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   123.02
1993     2.00      0.70     4.50      6.Ou     0.30       13.50 1       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   123.02
1994     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00     0.30       15.00 I       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
1995     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00     0.30       15.00 1       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
1996     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00     0.30       15.00 I       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
1997     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00     0.30       15.00 I       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
1998     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00     0.30       15.00 I       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
1999     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 I       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2000     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 I        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2001     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 I        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2002     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 1        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2003     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 1        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2004     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 1        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2005     2.00       0.70     6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 1        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2006     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 1       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2007     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 I        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2008     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 I        48.10        1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
2009     2.00      0.70      6.00     6.00      0.30      15.00 I       48.10         1.66    85.86      0.90     136.52   121.52
Underlying Main Assumptions                                                                 Economic Rate of Return            0.17
..... ............. ...................
1. Economic evaluation made on same basis as at appraisal.
2. Infrastructure deficiencis without project would have constrained the development of hotels and
the capacity of Luxor to accommodate tourists.
3. Without project occupancy rates would have been greater as a result of the growth
in demand not satisfied by the growth in supply.
Source: Project Unit at NTCA & Mission Calculations.



- 38 -
EGYPT TWRISN: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 11    Number of Tourists, Available Beds
and Bed-Nights at Abu Simbel
A- Vith the Project
..................................................
Year   NLmb r of INumber of   lOccupancy
AvailabLelof Tourists igates
Beds   teed-Nights  I
l(in 000)    I
....... ............ ..I
1983          40 1           31        20.00
1984          40 1           31        20.00
1985          40 1           31        20.00
1986          60 1           41        20.00
1987         140 1           13 1      25.30
1988         140 1          14 1       27.70
1989         140 1          21 1       41.00
1990         140 1          26 1       50.00
91-201          140            28        55.00
,..................................................
B- Vithout Project
..................................................
Year   Nuibr of INuwber of   IOcupancy
Aveileblelof Tourists IRates
Beds   1Bed-Nights  I
l(in 000)    I
................................. ............ I... ...........I 
1983          40 1           31        20.00
1984          40 1           3E        20.00
19l6          40 1           3 1       20.00
1986          40 1           31        20.00
1987          40 1           31        20.00
1988          40 1           31        20.00
1989          40 1           31        20.00
1990          40 1           3 1       20.00
1991-2009          40 1           3 1      20.00
,..................................................
C- Difference
...............................  0......
Year    Offference   Difference in
in No.         Bed-Nights
of eds           (in 000)
..............................................
1983           0             0
1984           0             0
1985       0             0
1986          20              1
1987         100             10
1988         100            11
1989         100             18
1990         100            23
1991-2009         100            25
....................................
Source: Egyptf n Nott l ufdb A UTCA



- 39 -
EGYPT TOURISM: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 12.    Abu Sinbel Investments, Benefits
and Rates of Return
(in million LE in 1988 prices)
..............................................
Year       Total        Net           Net
I nvestments   Operating      refits
Benefits       Strom
.............................................
1980           0            0         0.00
1981            0           0         0.00
1982           0            0         0.00
1983         0.5            0        *0.50
1984         0.7            0        -0.70
1985         0.3            0        -0.30
1986          1.1        0.05        -1.05
1987         1.5         0.36        -1.14
1988         0.4         0.40         0.00
1989         0.1         0.65         0.55
1990         0.1         0.81         0.71
1991         0.1         0.91         0.81
1992         0.1         0.91         0.81
199          0.1         0.91         0.81
1994         0.1         0.91         0.81
1995         0.1         0.91         0.81
1996         0.1         0.91         0.81
1997         0.1         0.91         0.81
1998         0.1         0.91         0.81
1999         0.1         0.91         0.81
2000         0.1         0.91         0.81
2001         0.1         0.91         0.81
2002         0.1         0.91         0.81
2003         0.1         0.91         0.81
2004         0.1         0.91         0.81
2005          0.1        0.91         0.81
2006         0.1         0.91         0.81
2007         0.1         0.91         0.81
2008         0.1         0.91         0.81
2009         0.1         0.91         0.81
, . .. ...............................
Economic Rate
Rate of Return                   0.14
Source: Nifr Aswan Hotel Company



- 40 -
EGYPT TOJRISM: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 13.  Status of Covenants
.  .... ................. .......................... ........................................................... .
Covenant            Subject                 Deadline for                       Status
Credit                                      Compliance
Agreement
Section Number
2.05            Employment of consultants   Not dated                     Consultants appointed as needed.
to carry out studies and designs
3.02            Relent and reimbursable     Not dated                     Funds were made available as
funds to project entities                                 need occurred.
3.03            Completion of Luxor         6/30/81                       Caopleted in 1985.
sewerage system
3.01 (a),       Studies                     Completion of studies         Both studies completed.
3.04 (a)        No. N (iMi),N (iv)          18 month after                Recommendations of studies
airport charges &           effectiveness.                partly iqplemented.
price controls              Recommendations
for hotels                 inplemented by 12/31/82.
3.01 (a),       Studies                     Completion of studies         Study completed. Physical caponents
3.04 (b)        No. N (i)                   12 month after                implemented. Visitor management will
Visitor management          effectiveness.                be implemented by the Misr Tourism Co.
at the West                 Recommeendations
Bank.                       implemented by 12/31/83.
3.05, 3.08      Cost recovery &             Cost recovery by              Notel prices increased and
pricing                     12/31/84                      sufficient rates of return on
investment in hotels were achieved.
Price controls have not been removed.
Cost recovery for roads, walkways,
and ferry docks are being studied. A
contract is to be signed with an agency
to maintain the facilities and recover
costs.
3.06            Establishing a              Not dated                     ProJect unit established as
Project Unit.                                             as required.
3.07            Preparing periodic          Not dated                     Being observed.
reports and schedules
3.10, 3.11,    Museum covenants             Not dated                     Site and principal collection
3.16                                                                      of museum are preserved.
Covenants related to adminstration,
use of revenues, and staffing have
not been implemented.



- 41 -
Table 13 continued
3.12            Adoption of land-use -id    Not dated                         Tourist zone established and land
subdivision reguler.ons                                      use regulations enforced.
3.13.           Establishment of              3 months after                  Committee established as required.
consuLtative cormittee       effectiverness
3.14            Managing the antiquities    Not dated                        Antiquities fund established
fund                                                         and managed but no estimates for future
plaming of expenditures has been perfor
3.01 (a), 3.15  Study No. N (vi) for          18 months after effectiveness Study has been cancelled.
3.17            Qualified management of       Appointment of consultant       Renovated Nefertari Hotel competently
Luxor and Nefertari hotels  by 12/31/79                      managed. Luxor Hotel was constructed
and employment of consultant                                 outside the project by the Egyptian
Company for Tourism and Hotels.
Management study completed.
ScheduLe 4      Accounts and                  Audits to be received 6        Accounts maintained. Only incomplete
Para A. 11      auditing                      months after end fiscaL year. audits received.
Source: Credit Documents



EGYPT TORISII: PROECT COiLETION REPORt
(Credit 909)
Table 14. Studfes and Technical Assistance
....................................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................ .................__..___
Type of Study                                   Purpose of Study                                Status            Impact of Study
....................................... .........................................................................................____.. _. ..... ............................
A1rport charge                                  Increase the benefits, cost recovery,                       Draft law prepared to modify airport charges.
to secure cost recovery of Investments          and profits to Luxor and Abu Siabel                         No senerate airport accomtifng system established.
In cvftil aviation facilities.                  Airports.                                       completed  Egypt Air still not paying landing charges.
Ipect of price control on hotels and            Evaluate price prospects,                                   Hotel prices considerably increased but the
nea   to reduce hotel Investment costs.         returns on Investments, and                                 Goverrment has not totally removed the
the need for price control.                                 price control mechanisms for hotel accomodations.
Identify means to reduce                                    Irwestment costs improved due to better planning and
Investment costs in hotels.                     completed  design of the new hotels.
Visitors mmnagM ent on the West Bank            Set recommendations on                                      Most of the recommendations related to site development
at Luxor.                                       Investment, pricing                                         and construction of facilities are being inplemented.
policles, accommodation requirements,                       Those related to managerial and organisatfonal aspects, as
and visitor flows.                                          well as to tourist information and interpretation programs,
completed have not yet been implemented.
Formulation of a five year program for the   Strengthening planning procedures
development of museums and antiquities sites.at the EAO to formulate a
5 year program for development.                 cancelled  Not applicable. The study has been cancelled.
Organization and development of water,          Develop appropriate management                              Tariffs raised for water and a differentiated
sewerage and solid waste disposal in Luxor. structure, staffing, teriffs and costs for                      tariff structure established. Most recommendations
a water and sanitation department                           related to management structure, accounting
at Luxor.                                       completed  systems and cost recovery not yet implemented.
Formulation of a long term program for the   Prepare a development plan                                     A complete set of documents for the renovation
Egyptian Museum.                                and assist In display, cataloguing                          of the Egyptian Musetan was prepared according to
documentation, reproduction, etc., and                      the study requirements. Aspects related to organisation,
revision of salary levels for museum staff.  completed  staffing, budgetting, and accounting have not been implement
Comient: It is noted that most of the physical and site planning recommendations are
being fiplemented, while the recommendations related to management, Institutions
and accounting systems have not been implemented.



- 43 _
EGYPT TWJR 19: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Table 15. Project Indicators
Indicator                        Approlsal        Esti1te
Estimte        At Closing
Date
.... .................... .................................................... .. .._
Foroein Exchange Earnings (USS million)
........................................
Luxor                           43.00           60.00
Abu-Sirbel                        0.9             0.4
Eaplotymnt Generation
.....................
Number of new Jobs                   6,000           10,000
Tourists Bed-Nights
..................
Luxor                        930.000        2,414,000
Abu-Siffbel                     3.000          21.000
Rates of Return
.............
Luxor                           13X           17S
Abu-Simbel                      15X           14S



- 44 -
Annex I
EGYPT TOURISM: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(Credit 909)
Agencies entrusted with Project implementation
(excluding MTCA)
City of Luxor; carry out parts C, D and N(ii) of the Project,
C:    water supply
D:    solid waste removal and sanitation
N(ii): study of organization and operation of the water, sewerage and
solid waste disposal services in Luxor and charges including the
cost recovery of non-revenue earning investments of city of Luxor.
Egyptian Antiquities Authority; carry out parts H(i), H(ii), N(v) and 0,
H:    Luxor archeological sites
H(i): West Bank monuments
N(v): study and formulation of a long term program for the Egyptian
Museum
0:    Egyptian Museum.
Egyptian Civil Aviation Authority; carry out part G,
G: Luxor Airport terminal building.
Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels; parts I and J,
I: Luxor Hotel (cancelled)
J: Hotel Training School.
Electricity of Egypt Authority; parts E(i) and E(ii),
E(i): Construction of a river crossing 132 kv overhead transmission
line from the West Bank to East Bank
Misr Aswan Tourism Company: part M,
M: Nefertari Guesthouse
Road and Bridge Authority: parts A, B, and K,
A:    roads, upgrading Luxor Airport road, Corniche, etc.
B:    Cruiser landings and Ferry Boat Docks
K:    roads at Abu Simbel.  Improvement to Abu Simbel airport access
road including the box culvert.
Telecommunication Authority; parts F and L,
F:    Telecommunications, expansion of the automatic telephone exchange
by 1000 lines.
L:    The provision of 12 local lines to be connected through a UHF
radio link to Wadi Halfa.



