Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE    OpY
Report No. P-2526-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
TOURISM PROJECT
May 7, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disleod without World Dak authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
lEgyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARETO - Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization
EAO    - Egyptian Antiquities Organization
ECAO   - Egyptian Civil Aviation Organization
EEA    - Egyptian Electrification Authority
EGOTH - Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels
GODE   - Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
GTZ    - German Agency for Technical Cobperation
MATCO - Misr Aswan Tourism Company
RWWA   - Roads and Waterways Authority
UNESCO - United Nations Educational, Scientific, and
Cultural Organization



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TOURISM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation
Ministry of Education, Culture, and Scientific Research
Egyptian Antiquities Organization
City of Luxor
Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels
Misr Aswan Tourism Company
Amount:              $32.5 million
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    To Luxor ($1 million), Egyptian Electrification Authority
($5.4 million), and Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunica-
tions Organization ($2.6 million) - 20 years, including
3 years grace with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
To Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels
($4 million) and Misr Aswan Tourism Company ($0.6 million) -
15 years including 3 years grace, and with interest at
10 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The proposed project would (i) improve infrastructure
in Luxor, both in the city and at the archaeological sites,
renovate a hotel and construct a hotel training school and
a visitor center; (ii) provide essential renovations of
the Egyptian Museum in Cairo; and (iii) expand the guest-
house at Abu Simbel with some improvements to infrastruc-
ture. Technical assistance would be provided to prepare a
plan for the development of the Egyptian Museum and make
specific proposals for strengthening the Museum's manage-
ment; to help strengthen the antiquities sector planning
unit and formulate a five-year development program; to
establish a new municipal water and sanitation department
in Luxor and recommend methods of cost recovery; to
improve visitor management on Luxor's west bank; to
analyze hotel investment costs and the impact of price
controls on hotels; and to recommend methods of cost
recovery of investments in civil aviation. The project's
complexity involves more than usual risks of delays in
implementation. To reduce such risks extra Bank staff
input for supervision will be required. The other main
risks are whether tourism demand in Luxor will reach the
levels forecast and whether the rise in hotel investment
costs can be curbed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of thcir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimates:                                                  US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
1.   Civil Works                                      9.79     8.17    17.96
2.   Equipment and Furniture                          3.12    13.38    16.50
3.   Professional Services                            2.05     0.92      2.97
4.   Technical Assistance                             0.36      1.79     2.15
5.   Project Administration                           0.79     0.11      0.90
6.   Land Acquisition                                 0.23      -        0.23
7.   Contingencies:
(i)  Physical                                   1.87      2.94      4.81
(ii)  Price                                      8.29      5.19    13.48
Total Project Cost                                   26.50    32.50    59.00
Financing Plan:                                                 US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                              -       32.5       32.5
Government                                     26.50       -        26.5
Total                                          26.50    32.5        59.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        US$ Million
IDA FY   1980   1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
Annual                      0.4    2.4      9.8    10.6      7.9    1.4
Cumulative                  0.4    2.8    12.6    23.2    31.1   32.5
Rate of Return:      13 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2284-EGT, dated April 26, 1979, Tourism Projects
Department.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT FOR A TOURISM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of $32.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finance the foreign exchange cost of
a tourism project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A report on "Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for
a meeting of the Consultative Group was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 30, 1978. Economic missions visited Egypt in October 1978, and in
March 1979. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.        Recent economic trends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the
new "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and
approved in a national referendum in May 1974. This strategy reflects a major
effort to accelerate economic development through modernization and making
Egypt's largely publicly-owned and centrally-controlled economy more market-
oriented. Specifically, the strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of
government regulations, many of which are to be replaced by the price mech-
anism; (ii) the decentralization of decision-making in state-owned enter-
prises; (iii) a more active role for the private sector, including private
foreign investors; and (iv) expanded economic cooperation with Arab and
western countries. Substantial inflows of external assistance from Arab and
Western aid donors and institutions are considered essential to support the
new strategy.
4.        To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's curency has been effectively devalued from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound (by 44 percent) at present. At the same time,
exchange restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced
by general import quotas, and more foreign exchange made available to both
the public and private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977)
1/   Part I of this report is virtually identical to Part I of the President's
Report for the New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project, which was distributed to the Fxecutive Directors on April 19,
1979.



- 2 -
offers attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially
with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bila-
teral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit
was established in the Central Bank, and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        Internally, the autonomy of public enterprises was strengthened,
especially by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to
individual enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) in-
troducing material incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage
scales, (iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements, and (v)
undertaking investments from own resources. Provincial authority to undertake
regional developmen programs was also expanded.
6.        A start has been made to rationalize the price structure, and to
increase price flexibility. Thus, the share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control was reduced from some 50 percent in 1975 to about 35
percent by 1978, and prices for a number of controlled products (including agri-
cultural crops and some public service tariffs) were substantially increased.
Interest rates were raised several times and stand now at 10 to 12 percent for
lending (to the non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5 percent for term deposits.
Private sector activity is being encouraged, and has been freed from many
previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of foreign investment con-
tracts are being signed, especially in the important oil and tourist sectors.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy action have yielded
some impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in
Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to an
estimated $5.5 billion in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers'
remittances, tourism and the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of
foreign exchange. This was accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and
industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addi-
tion, the Government managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance.
Gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion p.a.
during 1975-78, compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72.
The bulk of these aid flows came from Arab and Western donors, and were pro-
vided at highly concessional terms.
8.        The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has eased the pres-
sure on the balance of payments and allowed much higher levels of imports.
This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of investment, larger domestic
consumption, and a better utilization of existing production capacities.
Imports of goods and services (excluding interest payments) rose from about
$2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.7 billion in 1978; imports of capital
goods increased at an even faster rate. Gross capital formation expanded from
LE 515 million ($1.2 billion) 1/ in 1973 to LE 2,700 million ($4.0 billion) 1/
1/   Conversions are made at the weighted average of the official and the
parallel market exchange rates, the weights being their prevalent respec-
tive shares of trade.



- 3 -
in 1978, reaching the equivalent of 30 percent of GNP in the latter year.
Increased availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers
enabled them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods - including
fertilizer and pesticides - and spare parts thus breaking crucial bottlenecks
that had constrained local production. Together with investments in new
capacities and a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and
shipping, these developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.        The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 10 percent p.a. during 1975-78. 1/ Much of the
growth was concentrated in the petroleum sector, construction, manufacturing,
transport and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand,
increased very slowly (about 1 percent p.a.). The higher level of economic
activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil export-
ing countries absorbed much of the excess labor force that existed in the
early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to emerge in a
number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
10.       Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows resulted in a
consolidation of Egypt's external debt, and strengthened the country's credit-
worthiness. Short-term credits owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $490 million at end 1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the Devel-
opment of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in debt
payments were cleared which had built up in the previous years. These changes
have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have also eased
the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although Egypt's
total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during recent years--
from $2.1 billion end 1973 to an estimated $9.2 billion end-1978--the debt
service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent, respectively. This
reflects not only more favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and
longer maturities--but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.
11.       There are indications that the growth of production and investment
has slowed down in the last twelve months. One important reason for this is
that existing production capacities are now used at relatively high levels
while new capacities do not come on stream quickly due, in large part, to
administrative delays and construction bottlenecks. There are also growing
labor scarcities, especially in the skilled categories, and some branches face
stiff competition from imported consumer goods. Internal demand, on the other
hand, continues to grow rapidly creating rising inflationary pressures and a
high propensity to import.
Development Potential and Constraints
12.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a proficient
1/   The growth rate of GNP was much higher, about 15 percent per annum,
because of the massive growth in workers' remittances (see Annex I).



- 4 -
population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for a continued growth of foreign
exchange earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which
is undergoing a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in
the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less opti-
mistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for new industrial and
agricultural products are promising.
13.       However, future economic growth will come less easily than during
the past five years. As was mentioned above (para 11) capacities are now
strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure. Investment in
new capacities is moving slower than anticipated, and is constrained by
administrative inefficiency, weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises is still weak,
while financial incentives for production are inadequate in many instances.
The latter problem has recently been reinforced by indiscriminate competition
from imports, many of which enter the country with little restrictions.
14.       Low levels of investment during the late 1960's and early 1970's
have led to a deterioration in physical infrastructure, mainly railways,
ports, airports, telecommunications and power. Similarly, there are serious
shortages in social investments, especially housing and urban facilities
(water supply, sewerage, etc.). Lack of adequate drainage facilities con-
strains agricultural productivity, while in industry large investments are
needed merely for balancing and modernization. These bottlenecks became more
pronounced as the economy expanded in recent years. Higher levels of economic
activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical
professional and technical skills (see paragraph 9 above). Educational
facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs
to be upgraded.
15.       There is a severe shortage in domestic investment funds, especially
for the public sector. Notwithstanding high rates of taxation--over 30 percent
of GNP in recent years--savings generated by the government budget are rela-
tively low. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged only about 2
percent of CDP, while their contribution to the financing of public investment
did not exceed an average of 10 percent p.a. This is the result of high
defense and security expenditures, large consumer subsidies, and fast growing
interest payments which taken together claimed 63 percent of the Government's
tax revenues in 1978. At the same time, savings generated by public enter-
prises are constrained by price regulations which frequently do not allow full
cost recovery or seriously limit profit margins.
16.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 40 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population is growing
at a rate of 2.2 percent p.a., adding more than 800,000 people every year.
This creates great pressures on resources for consumption and investment, and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run.



17.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in income distribution and consumption levels. Income differentials
have been further widened by inflationary pressure (18 percent in 1978). It
is estimated that currently the lower 40 percent of the rural population
receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban areas the
proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural and 22 percent
of the urban population are below absolute poverty lines. Although the above
pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty are less than in most
developing economies it is nevertheless a serious issue, which could worsen if
no effective policy action is taken.
Further Action Required
18.       The peace treaty with Israel presents a new situation the full
economic impact of which cannot be assessed easily at this stage. Internally,
it should allow the Government to devote crucially needed time and energy to
dealing with economic and development policy issues; it could free important
human, material and financial resources and provide a breathing space for pre-
paring a medium- to long-term framework for economic development. Externally,
however, there could be significant repercussions, at least in the short run,
particularly in terms of foreign aid flows.
19.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. More specifically, action is
needed to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through
organizational and procedural modifications, and selective changes in salary
structures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and
project preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced
program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially
expand the program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural
strategies aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration in Cairo and Alexan-
dria, and creating more productive opportunity in smaller towns and rural
areas; (vi) further activate the use of prices as indicators of relative
scarcities; (vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii)
improve professional and technical education; (ix) increase public savings;
and (x) develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank;
they have also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the
Consultative Group for Egypt, especially at its second meeting in June 1978.
20.       Over the last few years, the Government has initiated action in many
of these areas, often with support from the World Bank, IMF, UNDP, regional
and bilateral aid donors. Above all, the Government has prepared a Five-Year
Plan which was adopted by Parliament in mid-1978 and which provides a medium-
term perspective to the Govenment's development strategy and policy objectives.
It advocates a high growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive
and supported by fast growing exchange earnings. The domestic and foreign
private sectors are expected to play an increasing role in the development
process, although the public sector will retain its dominant position. Each
year the plan is being updated and moved forward by one year, to flexibily
respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.



- 6 -
21.       In support of the overall plan a number of sector and subsector
programs are presently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank
and other donors. They include a water master plan, various industrial
sub-sector studies, a review of the transport sector, and an electrification
program. These programs will identify sectoral priorities, define appropriate
policies and institutional arrangements, and prepare specific development
projects, many of which could be cofinanced by foreign donors. Other pro-
grams such as those for the development of the oil sector, the widening and
deepening of the Suez Canal and a national drainage scheme, have already
reached the stage of implementation.
22.       The Government is also preparing a more rational price policy.  In
line with this, a comprehensive Bank study on the adjustment of agricultural
prices is underway, and first results are expected by the end of the year.
Price ceilings are expected to be lifted for most industrial products, and
further adjustments will be made for utility tariffs. However, care will have
to be taken that these price changes will not erode the standard of living of
the poor. In this context, efforts have been initiated to define the framework
for a more active program to provide for the basic needs of the lower income
groups. In the past two years the Government, at the highest level, has also
come to a new commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has
already initiated such action (e.g. an intensified home visiting program under
the second IDA financed population project), it will take time until measure-
able results in fertility reduction can be seen.
23.       Last year, the Government negotiated an arrangement under the IMF's
extended facility, which was approved by the IMF's Board of Directors in July
1978. The agreement permits Egypt to make purchases from the IMF over the
next three years up to a total amount equivalent to SDR 600 million (about
$770 million). As part of this arrangement, the Government has adopted since
January 1979, the parallel market rate for virtually all foreign exchange
transactions, and has undertaken to further reduce exchange control restric-
tions. The Government has also undertaken to continue decontrolling the
output prices of public sector companies. The effect of this policy will be
to improve the financial situation of such companies as well as the Govern-
ment, and thus facilitate efforts to increase budgetary savings. A first
drawing of $96 million was made in June 1978.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1978 was estimated at about $9.2 billion (see
paragraph 10). Of the total, medium- and long-term loans amounted to $6.4
billion (of which $0.4 billion was in non-convertible currencies), medium-
and long-term deposits with the Central Bank of Egypt were $2 billion, and
suppliers' credits $0.8 billion. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia, followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 5 percent of the total disbursed debt. Debt



service on medium-and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in 1978 1/
giving a debt service ratio of about 24 percent. No reliable estimates of
military debt are available.
25.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international envi-
ronment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated at about $3 billion per annum for the coming
five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are available
on the terms expected, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow
the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on harder terms. The burden
of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign
exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate between 21 and 28 percent during
1979-83, and to gradually decline thereafter to about 16 percent in 1988. In
these circumstances Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount
of Bank lending in addition to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the
ground of its poverty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
26.       The proposed credit would be the World Bank's fortieth lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1,216.5 million. 2/ Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
27.       Given Egypt's basic structural problems:  pressure of population on
resources; lacking economic infrastructure; a large public sector constrained
by administrative fragmentation and a network of controls over investment,
production, distribution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits
and pressing demand for finding domestic resources, the Bank's response has
been tailored to address, in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation
with other donors, these long-term developmental issues. The necessary
breadth of the Bank's contribution to Egypt has dictated a strategy which
involves entry into the whole spectrum of sectors with a view to provide not
only direct finance with the relatively limited resources that the Bank/IDA
can make available but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other financing
agencies, both bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating dis-
cussion and, hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies
1/   Inclusive of IMF repayments of $75 million.
2/   Includes New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
loan for $11 million approved by the Board on May 1, 1979.



- 8 -
and investment proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The
approach must also include delivery of technical assistance not only for
adequate implementation of specific investment programs but for developing
the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement future
policies and programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral inter-
vention has been differentiated by sectors and by the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can address these issues.
28.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector receiv-
ing the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention, illus-
trates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. It is the one sector
which has the capacity for creating employment opportunities which can meet
the demands of Egypt's growing population and limited agricultural land.
However, this sector is beset by a complex constellation of problems which
stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and lack of management
autonomy, the distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives. Efforts under
our projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity
utilization (Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456)
and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort--embodied in these projects--has been
directed at introducing policy and structural improvements through initiating
six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, which would provide the
foundations for formulating a package of policy and investment proposals. To
complement these efforts in basic industries the Bank has also carried out a
study on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for Egyptian
and our efforts in this area.
29.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that the Bank has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum
of the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with that
the Egyptian Government wants the Bank to play but is welcomed by the various
bilateral and multilateral donors as an appropriate function, which the Bank,
as the Chairman of the Consultative Group, should fulfill. Preparation of
projects for future lending follows this strategy. A development finance
project, a second textiles project, a power generation project, a gas
gathering pipeline project, and a pulp and paper project have been appraised.
A pipeline of projects for possible future lending is also being developed,
including further projects in water supply and sewerage, education, power,
rural and urban development, transportation, agriculture (including drainage)
and agro-industry, development finance and industry.
30.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 2.3 percent and 2.5
percent, respectively at the end of 1978. For the future, the Bank and IDA



- 9 -
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 5.4 and 3.4 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
31.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978. IFC is also discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE TOURISM SECTOR
Tourism in Egypt
32.       Egypt has one of the most ancient tourism traditions in the world.
Its assets include numerous archaeological sites that have long fascinated
travelers as well as a good climate and attractive beaches. The oldest
and most important historical attractions are the temples and tombs of
the Pharaonic dynasties scattered up and down the Nile Valley. The Nile
itself is still one of Egypt's main attractions, and cruises on the Nile
have long been popular with foreign tourists.
33.       Egypt's unique cultural assets constitute a valuable economic
resource; they have encouraged rapid growth of tourism and earned substantial
amounts of scarce foreign exchange. Despite the setbacks resulting from con-
flicts in the region, total visitor arrivals increased by an average annual
rate of about 11 percent over the past 25 years. A peak was reached in 1966,
when visitor arrivals numbered 579,000. This number was not exceeded until
1974, but since then the growth rate has accelerated to 15 percent per annum,
and over one million visitors were recorded in 1977. In 1977, officially
recorded foreign exchange receipts from tourism were $728 million, represent-
ing 16 percent of total exports of goods and services, and were among the
major sources of foreign exchange earnings.
34.       There are currently about 10,500 registered hotel rooms in Egypt.
About 55 percent of this capacity is located in Cairo, 15 percent in
Alexandria, 10 percent in Aswan, and 7 percent in Luxor. However, in the past
the expansion of accommodation and other tourist facilities has not kept pace
with the growth in demand. As a result, room occupancy rates, particularly of
first-class hotels in Cairo, have been very high, exceeding 95 percent, which
in the last few years has encouraged a rapid acceleration of hotel construc-
tion in the city.
35.       The Government, directly or through state agencies, plays a major
role in the tourism sector. Responsibility for the sector lies with the
Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation, whose main tasks in respect to tourism



- 10 -
include planning and development of tourism facilities, administration of
incentives, and promotion and regulation, including the regulation of prices.
Another government agency of importance to tourism is the Egyptian Antiquities
Organization (EAO), a dependency of the Ministry of Education, Culture, and
Scientific Research, which over and above its strictly conservationist
activities, plays a central role in the management of Egypt's archaeological
sites and museums.
36.       A majority of the hotels in Egypt are, for a variety of historical
reasons, owned by the Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels (EGOTH),
a government-owned enterprise under the Ministry of Tourism. Private owner-
ship of hotels and foreign private investment in the sector are now being
encouraged, but to achieve the increase in capacity planned for the next few
years, public sector companies will have to continue to invest either alone
or in joint ventures with private capital.
37.       In the future, tourism is expected to continue to grow and earn sub-
stantial foreign exchange earnings. Visitor demand projections indicate that
total tourist arrivals to Egypt would be in the order of 2 million by 1985,
and 2.4 million by 1990. In 1983 foreign exchange earnings from tourism are
estimated to increase to about $1.7 billion (in current prices), maintaining
at about 16 percent their important share in the country's foreign exchange
earnings. By 1988 the total foreign exchange earnings should rise to $3.4
billion (in current prices), with tourism's share increasing to 20 percent.
Investment Priorities
38.       The growth in tourism demand currently being experienced by Egypt
would have been exceeded had it not been for the constraints imposed by
insufficient capacities in hotel and infrastructure facilities. Recognizing
the demand potential, and in view of the urgent need to increase foreign
exchange earnings and employment, Egypt has accorded high priority to the
development of tourism. Egypt's draft 1978-82 economic plan, which places
emphasis on increasing foreign exchange earnings, initially called for the
concentration of tourism sector investments mainly along the northwest coast
to develop beach-based tourism, a strategy requiring large and economically
uncertain investments in an isolated area of the country. Since the Bank's
involvement in the sector, the strategy has been modified and the Government
is now according greater priority to the expansion of "cultural" tourism along
the Nile Valley, although it also plans gradually to expand beach tourism on
the Mediterranean and the Red Sea coasts and to develop new tourist areas in
the Suez Canal zone.
39.       The additions to hotel capacity already under construction in Cairo
will approximately triple the number of rooms available in higher category
(3-5 star) hotels in the next three years. To complement this expansion and
provide for the growth of cultural tourism, additional hotel accommodations
near the main archaeological sites outside Cairo are required, particularly



- 11 -
in Upper Egypt at Luxor and Abu Simbel. The expansion of tourism in Upper
Egypt has in the past been hampered by inadequate infrastructure and other
services, especially in Luxor, where water and electric power supplies are
already inadequate to meet current demands, the construction of a sewerage
system has only recently been started, telecommunications are deficient, and
the airport and the local road network require improvement. Basic services to
support hotel expansion in Aswan are more adequate, but expansion of tourism
in Abu Simbel would require investment in accommodation and infrastructure,
albeit on a modest scale.
40.       The development of cultural tourism will also require improvements
in the preservation and presentation of monuments and museums. The revenues
from visitor entry fees and exhibitions abroad of Egyptian antiquities have
risen rapidly in recent years (from about LE 820,000 in 1975 to LE 3.8 mil-
lion in 1978), but the Government has not yet formulated a well-conceived
program for spending these resources on the development of antiquities' sites
and museums. Improvements to the Egyptian Museum in Cairo are, however,
clearly of high priority because of the need to improve the conservation and
display of its irreplaceable antiquities, some of which are highly vulnerable
and are deteriorating.
Air Access
41.       Adequate air access, particularly to points other than Cairo, will
also be critical for the growth in tourism and investor interest. Forty-two
international scheduled air carriers, including the national carrier Egyptair,
serve Cairo. Egyptair also operates a relatively limited domestic route sys-
tem but has had difficulty in handling the growth in demand on these routes,
which averaged 30 percent annually since 1970, largely because of an increase
in foreign tourism demand. Since the completion of its fleet standardization
program and with the expansion of capacity through the recent acquisition of
wide-bodied aircraft in 1977/78, Egyptair is better able to meet demand.
Egyptair is also computerizing its flight reservation system which should also
help to improve air travel service in the country. The pricing policies at
domestic aiports need to be examined. At present, Egyptair pays no landing
fees at airports in Egypt, which probably constitutes a subsidy for the
tourist. With assistance under this project, the Government would examine
this policy with a view to recovering investment and operating costs attribut-
able to civil aviation services at domestic airports (Section 3.04 (a) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was prepared by various agencies of the Government with
the assistance of consultants and appraised by a Bank mission, which visited
Egypt in June and September 1978. The Egyptian Museum component was appraised
during a follow-up visit to Cairo in January 1979. A staff appraisal report
entitled "Tourism Project" No. 2284-EGT dated April 26, 1979, is being distri-
buted separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing



- 12 -
the project and a description of the special conditions of the proposed
Credit. Negotiations were held in Washington April 2-10 1979, with the
Government delegation headed by Mr. Samir Koraiem.
Project Objectives
43.       Egypt's unique cultural heritage is one of its most valuable
resources, marked by the series of archaelogical sites stretching the length
of the Nile and one of the world's richest collections of antiquities. These
assets have helped tourism to become a vital development force in the economy.
44.       The proposed project is designed to support the expansion of cul-
tural tourism to Egypt by providing the basis for augmenting visitor capacity
at two of the major sites of tourist interest in Upper Egypt--Luxor and Abu
Simbel. It is also designed to help protect the invaluable collections in the
Egyptian Museum. The project includes the introduction of essential policy,
organizational, and institutional improvements in both the Museum and in the
antiquities sector. It also includes technical assistance for the municipal
government in Luxor, and for the tourism and aviation sectors. By improving
basic utilities, the project would also enhance the quality of life and health
of a large part of the local population in Luxor.
45.       The proposed project would consist of three geographically separate
components: (i) the improvement of the infrastructure in Luxor - both in the
city and at the archaeological sites, the renovation of one hotel and the
construction of a hotel school and a visitor center; (ii) a modest expansion
of an existing guesthouse at Abu Simbel with some improvements to infrastruc-
ture; and (iii) essential renovations of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo.
46.       Luxor is the most important archaeological site in Upper Egypt,
visited in 1977 by some 183,000 tourists. Located 670 km south of Cairo, it
contains on both banks of the Nile the remains of magnificent temples and on
the Nile's west bank tombs built primarily by the Pharaohs of the New Kingdom
(16th-llth century B.C.).  Luxor has some 700 higher category hotel rooms,
approximately 400 rooms of lower standard, and on average some 140 rooms on
Nile river cruisers during the season. Public and private companies have
plans to add another 1,000 higher category rooms by 1984, and private investors
are already adding new rooms in lower category hotels. These developments are
severely hampered by inadequate infrastructure services.
47.       Some 600 km south of Luxor on the shore of Lake Nasser lies the
colossal Nubian temple complex of Abu Simbel, built by Ramses II (about 13th
century B.C.). When the construction of the Aswan High Dam threatened to sub-
merge Abu Simbel in the early 1960s, an international consortium of engineers
and scientists, with the help of UNESCO and foreign donors, disassembled
the Abu Simbel temples and reconstructed them in the same alignment on higher
ground, an engineering achievement almost as awe-inspiring as the feats of
the original builders some 3,000 years earlier. In spite of its relatively
isolated location, in 1977 Abu Simbel attracted some 60,000 visitors. The
small guesthouse of 20 rooms near the site is poorly managed and in bad



- 13 -
repair. Although the majority of tourists will continue to visit Abu Simbel
on day trips, there is a potential demand for overnight stays which the
proposed project is designed to meet.
48.       The Egyptian Museum contains the world's greatest collection of
ancient Egyptian antiquities and, with the pyramids of Giza, is one of the
two pre-eminent cultural attractions for tourists visiting Cairo. It
attracted 560,000 visitors in 1978, of whom 485,000 were foreigners. The
Museum's collection is unique and magnificent, but the works are very poorly
displayed, dusty, ill-lit, and largely unidentified. The building, although
basically sound, is urgently in need of repair, and the more fragile items in
the collection --wood, fabric, papyri and mummies--are steadily deteriorating
as a result of inadequate conservation measures and lack of proper climate
control. The organization, planning and budgeting, and staffing of the Museum
also urgently needs strengthening and upgrading. Over the years, many efforts
have been made to correct these problems, but none of them have been success-
ful. While financial contributions from various sources are expected to be
available, both the Egyptian Antiquities Organization and UNESCO believe the
Bank's participation could help to strengthen the staffing and management of
the Museum, to ensure that adequate steps are taken to preserve the collection,
and to improve the display of items being exhibited. In addition, the Bank's
involvement would help develop the framework for a sound investment program
for the entire antiquities sector.
Project Components
49.       The following are the main components of the Project:
A.   In Luxor
(i) expansion and improvement of electric power, tele-
communications, water supply, solid waste disposal,
airport terminal, road, and river crossing facilities
to serve by 1990 approximately 3,200 hotel rooms and
500 rooms on Nile cruisers;
(ii)  renovation and expansion of a government-owned hotel
and the construction and equipping of a new hotel
training school and an associated practice hotel;
and
(iii) construction of a visitor center on the west bank of
the Nile and improvements to monuments on both the
east and west banks.
B.   At Abu Simbel
(i) improvements to the airport access road and expansion
of the telecommunications systems; and
(ii) renovation and expansion of the existing guesthouse.



- 14 -
C.   In Cairo
Renovation of the Egyptian Museum which would consist of
essential building repairs, climate control, improved
lighting, improved display, improved fire control and
security systems, and improved library, conservation,
research, administrative and storage facilities.
D.   Technical Assistance for
(i) the formulation of a master plan for the development of
the Egyptian Museum, which would include planning and
implementing improvements to the display, cataloging
and conservation of artifacts, and a plan for strength-
ening the Museum's organization and staffing, and for
developing sales of reproductions (Part N (v) of
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
Section 2.10 of the EAO Project Agreement);
(ii) strengthening the planning unit in the Egyptian
Antiquities Organization and formulating a five-year
development plan for the antiquities sector together
with assistance to strengthen the budgetary and
accounting systems of the EAO (Part N (vi) of Sched-
ule 2 and Section 3.15 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the EAO
Project Agreement);
(iii) the organization of a new municipal water and sanitation
department in Luxor (to be established by June 30, 1981)
including advice on staffing and tariff structures,
billing and accounting systems (Part N (ii) of Schedule
2 and Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement;
and Sections 3.02(a) and 4.01(b) of the Qena/Luxor
Project Agreement); and
(iv) studies of visitor management on the west bank at Luxor
(to be completed by about December 1980), cost recovery
of investments in civil aviation facilities serving
domestic flights (to be completed by about June 1981),
and hotel investment costs and the impact of price con-
trols on hotels (to be completed by about June 1981)
(Parts N(i), (iii), and (iv) of Schedule 2 to and
Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Not included in the project is a new sanitary sewerage system for
Luxor which is presently under construction. The Government will make avail-
able funds needed to complete that part of the sewerage system that would
serve the hotels not later than June 3C, 1981 (Section 3.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $59.0 million.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 12 percent of base costs and
price contingencies at 33 percent. The estimated foreign exchange component
is $32.5 million equivalent or 55 percent of total project cost. Technical
assistance for the proposed project has been estimated at 280 manmonths at
about $6,000 per manmonth.
52.       The proposed IDA Credit of $32.5 million would finance about 55
percent of the total cost and cover 100 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project. The share of the IDA Credit to be used to
finance electric power, telecommunications, water supply, solid waste dis-
posal, the Luxor Hotel and the Abu Simbel guesthouse would be on-lent by the
Government to the agencies owning these assets. The on-lending for electric-
ity, telecommunications, water supply and solid waste disposal would be for 20
years with three years grace at a rate of interest equal to the current
interest rate on Bank loans (Sections 3.02 (a)(i),(b), (c), and (d) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The on-lending for the hotels would be for a
period of 15 years, with three years grace, at an interest rate of not less
than 10 percent (Sections 3.02 (e), (f), and (g) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The remaining IDA funds would be provided by the Government to
other executing ministries and agencies (Sections 3.02 (a)(ii), (h), (i), and
(j) of the Development Credit Agreement) together with budgetary funds on a
non-repayable basis. Government funds would be provided through the budget of
the Ministry of Tourism for the Luxor and Abu Simbel components of the project,
and through the Fund for Financing Antiquities, Museums, and Sound and Light
Projects of the Ministry of Culture for the Egyptian Museum. Under the
project, each ministry and agency would prepare detailed implementation
schedules for its respective component (Section 3.07 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation and Operation
53.       Because the proposed project is complex, consisting of a number of
components for which different agencies would be responsible, a Project Unit
would be established in the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation to coor-
dinate the implementation of all project components, with the exception of the
renovation of the Museum which would be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Education, Scientific Research, and Culture through the Egyptian Antiquities
Organization (EAO).  Actual implementation of various project components would
be the responsibility of the appropriate governmental agencies. The Project
Unit in the Ministry of Tourism would report on a regular basis to an Inter-
Ministerial Coordinating Committee on which the agencies responsible for
project implementation would be represented. The establishment of such a
unit, with the appointment of a qualified and experienced director, assistant
director, and procurement officer would be conditions of effectiveness (Sec-
tions 5.01 (c) and (d) of the Development Credit Agreement). For the imple-
mentation of the renovation of the Egyptian Museum, EAO would establish a
Museum Implementation Unit which would also be a condition of effectiveness



- 16 -
(Section 5.01 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement). The Museum Imple-
mentation Unit would be headed by a competent project manager (Section 2.09
of the EAO Project Agreement).
54.       Consultants would be employed for final design, preparation of
tender documents, and supervision of construction of project roads, ferry
landings, water distribution system, electric power, telecommunications,
the Luxor airport terminal building, the west bank visitor center, the Abu
Simbel hotel and the Egyptian Museum. An international committee of experts,
who would be recruited by the Egyptian Government in consultation with IDA
and UNESCO (Section 3.13 of the Development Credit Agreement), would review
the proposals of the consultants for the renovation of the Museum. EGOTH
would be responsible for the preparation of design and tender documents and
the supervision of construction of the Luxor Hotel and the hotel training
school. EGOTH would obtain advice from hotel management consultants for the
design work; the consultants would be employed by December 31, 1979 (Section
3.17 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.02 of the EGOTH Project
Agreement). In total, professional services for final design and supervision
would amount to 860 manmonths, which drawing largely on local consultants
would average about $3,400 per manmonth.
55.       The Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization (ARETO),
the Egyptian Electricity Authority (EEA), and the Egyptian Civil Aviation
Organization (ECAO) would be responsible for operating, respectively, the
telecommunications, electricity and airport terminal facilities. These are
established organizations which are already operating and maintaining comparable
facilities elsewhere in Egypt.
56.       The City of Luxor would be responsible for operating and maintaining
the water supply, sewerage and solid waste disposal systems as well as for
maintaining the roads and streets in Luxor under the overall supervision of
the Governorate of Qena. To strengthen the organization for operating water
supply and sanitation services, with the help of technical assistance provided
by the project, a Water and Sanitation Department would be set up within the
Luxor city government to operate and maintain these services, and the job
qualifications and descriptions of the key posts would be satisfactory to IDA
(Sections 3.02 and 4.01(c) of the Qena and Luxor Project Agreement). In addi-
tion, with the objective of establishing economic charges for water, sewerage
and solid waste disposal services for all classes of consumers, having due
regard to ability to pay, the Governorate of Qena and the City of Luxor would
establish charges sufficient to cover costs of operation, maintenance and
interest payments of these services from 1982 on, and from 1985 on, after the
number of hotel rooms has been substantially increased, to cover also costs of
depreciation (Section 4.03 of the Qena and Luxor Project Agreement).
57.       Since the standard of management of the present Luxor Hotel and the
Abu Simbel guesthouse is presently below what most western tourists would
expect, the Government would ensure that consultants are appointed to provide
technical assistance to the Egyptian Hotel Company in managing these hotels
(Section 3.17 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.02 of the



- 17 -
EGOTH and MATCO Project Agreements). 1/ EGOTH, which is satisfactorily
operating a hotel school in Alexandria, would manage the hotel school in Luxor
with technical assistance to be provided under an agreement with the German
Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ). However, the job qualifications of
the director of the school would be acceptable to IDA, the salary levels and
status of instructors in the school would be established on a basis satisfac-
tory to IDA, and EGOTH would meet operating losses of the school hotel, if any
(Sections 2.07, 2.08, and 2.09 of the EGOTH Project Agreement). The signing
of the contract with GTZ would be a condition of disbursement of the hotel
school component of the project (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement).
58.       The management of the Egyptian Museum has not had the authority,
resources or continuity in the past to enable the Museum to fulfill its
proper tasks. Technical assistance to be provided under the project would
provide recommendations on the organizational structure, staffing needs, wage
and salary levels and financial procedures of the Museum. The Government has
agreed, subject to the general control by the Board of the EAO, to give the
Museum administration full authority over the operation and staffing of the
Museum, to increase the staff, to set emoluments that would attract and retain
qualified and experienced staff; and to ensure that the Museum would be headed
at all times by a qualified and experienced director (Section 3.10 of the
Development Credit Agreement). Museum revenues would also be used to meet
costs of operation and maintenance of the Museum to the limits approved in its
annual budget (Section 3.16 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.        Contracts for civil works, furniture, fixtures, building materials
and equipment amount to a total value estimated at $50.0 million of which
$43.0 million would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Association's guidelines for procurement.
Civil works contracts costing less than $500,000 each (up to $4.5 million
in total); and furniture, fixtures, materials and equipment contracts costing
less than $100,000 each (up to $2.5 million in total) would be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with
Government procurement procedures, satisfactory to the Association (Schedule
3, paragraphs D 1 and 2 to the Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Because of problems of accessibility, civil works for road improve-
ments, parking areas and landscaping around the archaeological monuments at
Luxor may be carried out by force account by the Roads and Waterways Authority
and/or the Egyptian Antiquities Organization. Their total cost is expected
not to exceed $250,000. Telephone switching equipment procured under the
project would have to be compatible with that presently used in Luxor and
Abu Simbel. ARETO would, therefore, negotiate the purchase with the suppliers
of such equipment. The contracts would be subject to approval by the Associa-
tion. The amount involved is estimated at $0.5 million. Retroactive financing
of up to $100,000 is recommended for expenditures for the hotel training school
incurred after May 1, 1979 (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
1/   The Misr Aswan Tourism Company (MATCO) has been recently established to
develop Lake Nasser and will own the guesthouse at Abu Simbel.



- 18 -
61.       The disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit would be made on
the following basis: (i) 40 percent of expenditures for civil works for all
project components, excluding the Museum; (ii) 60 percent of expenditures
for civil works of the Museum; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
imported equipment, building materials, and furniture and fixtures, or ex-
factory cost of such items manufactured in Egypt, and 70 percent of local
expenditures for off-the-shelf items; (iv) 15 percent of professional services
for all project components, excluding the terminal building of Luxor airport
and the Museum; and (v) 80 percent of technical assistance, fellowships and
professional services for the terminal building of Luxor airport and the
Museum. Disbursements are estimated as follows:
IDA                      FY    1980       1981      1982     1983    1984   1985
--------------------$ millions----------------
Annual                           0.4       2.4       9.8      10.6     7.9    1.4
Cumulative                       0.4       2.8      12.6     23.2    31.1   32.5
Benefits and Risks
62.       A number of the project's benefits cannot be quantified.  For
example, the project should make substantial sectoral contributions with its
assistance to study hotel investment costs and pricing policies, to study
cost recovery on investments in civil aviation, and to strengthen investment
programming in the Egyptian Antiquities Organization. In addition, the reno-
vation of the Egyptian Museum would improve the conservation of irreplaceable
antiquities, provide better facilities for research, and improve the display
of one of the greatest collections in mankind's cultural heritage. IDA's
involvement should also help to achieve better administration and management
of the Museum. Under the project steps would also be taken to preserve the
tombs and monuments at the Necropolis at Luxor.
63.       With regard to developing tourist accommodations, as new hotels now
under construction in Cairo are completed in the next three years, the growth
of cultural tourism to Egypt will be constrained primarily by the lack of
accommodation capacity in Upper Egypt, particularly in Luxor. Visitor projec-
tions to Luxor are forecast at 514,000 in 1985 and 646,000 in 1990, compared
with 183,000 in 1977, while hotel accommodation capacity is projected to
increase by 2,100 rooms by 1990. Without the project there is no prospect
that these visitor and accommodation projections for Luxor could be achieved.
Rather it is likely that there would be a continuing deterioration of basic
infrastructure services in Luxor, and although occupancy rates in existing
hotels would increase marginally, most of the potential growth in tourist
flows would be foregone.
64.       The main quantifiable project benefits are measured by expenditures
of those incremental tourists whose visits to Luxor and Abu Simbel would be
made possible by the project works, less the costs of serving them. These
expenditures would be for hotel accommodation, food and beverages, transporta-
tion, entrance fees to monuments, local guides and shopping. Other benefits



- i9 -
are incremental receipts to infrastructure facilities from the tourism sector,
the reduction of airline costs which arise because of airport improvement
works, and savings to Egyptair on its flights to Abu Simbel which the proposed
investments there make possible. On this basis, the economic rate of return
on the Luxor and Abu Simbel components of the project together would be 13
percent. On the Luxor component alone the rate of return would be 12.6
percent, while on the Abu Simbel component it would be 24 percent.
65.       With regard to the renovation of the Egyptian Museum, the Government
can expect quantifiable benefits in the form of increased entry fees. The EAO
would increase the non-concessional entry fee to the Museum by LE 1 1/ from
1984 onward, when the renovation project is expected to be substantially com-
pleted (Section 2.08 of the EAO Project Agreement). This increase would be
sufficient taking into account increased visitor entries and operating costs,
to yield on the proposed renovation of the Museum a rate of return of about
12 percent. The local population will continue to benefit from concessional
rates on certain days.
66.       The main beneficiaries of tourism expansion in Luxor and Abu Simbel
would be the Government, the local labor force and investors. The Government
would receive 15-20 percent of the incremental tourist expenditures, the local
labor force 20-25 percent, and investors 20 percent. The remainder would con-
stitute purchases from other sectors or imports. The local population would
benefit from improved services in the Luxor area which would be partly sub-
sidized by tourism enterprises. The quantifiable benefits from the Egyptian
Museum renovation would flow to the Government.
67.       The incremental net foreign exchange earnings generated by the
project are estimated at approximately $21.5 million by 1985 and $44.3 million
by 1990. The project is estimated to create from 5,000 to 6,000 new permanent
jobs in Luxor. In addition, the construction of the various infrastructure
components and hotels is expected to generate over 20,000 manyears of employ-
ment in construction between 1979 and 1990.
68.       Apart from risks of disturbances in the Middle East, which could
affect visitor flows, the main risk facing the project is whether Luxor will
achieve the forecast increase in visitors at prices necessary to earn adequate
financial and economic returns on the types of facilities to be provided.
While tourism demand projections appear reasonable, the expected benefits from
the project would not be fully realized if hotel capacity were not to develop
as envisaged, if prices of hotels were to be maintained at too low a level, or
if investment costs of hotels were to be too high.
1/   In 1979 prices.  This compares with the present entry fee of LE 0.75 and
LE 0.25 to the Mummy Room and the proposed entry fee of LE 1
to each from October 1979. Such an increase would be readily affordable
by foreign visitors.



- 20 -
69.       A slower than projected build-up of hotel capacity would affect the
rate of return, but only marginally. The rate of future hotel construction
would be affected by profit prospects, which would be critically dependent on
price controls and hotel investment costs. The project would incLude funds
for studies of hotel investment costs and of the impact of price controls on
hotels. In addition, the Government has agreed to: (a) allow hotels in Luxor
and Abu Simbel to set prices at levels which would yield an annual return in
real terms of at least 10 percent on investment, and (b) ensure that suffi-
cient numbers of new hotel rooms would be in operation in Luxor in each year
from 1984 onward to make the project there economically viable (Section 3.05
of the Development Credit Agreement).
70.       One risk connected with the Museum component is that the collections
would be dispersed to other museums, thereby lessening the attractiveness of
the Museum for tourists. The Government has agreed to continue to make the
Museum the principal repository of Egyptian antiquities in Cairo and to keep
the principal collections of the Museum intact for 15 years from the completion
of the renovation work (Section 3.11 of the Credit Agreement). An additional
risk would be that the EAO may fail to strengthen the administration of the
Museum along the lines to be defined by the technical assistance being provided
by the project.
71.       Given the complexity of the project and the number of agencies
involved in project execution, there appear to be more than usual risks of
delay in project implementation. To minimize such delays it is clear that
exceptional inputs of Bank staff/consultant time will be required for project
supervision.
Social and Environmental Considerations
72.       A household survey carried out in mid-1978 in Luxor and ten surround-
ing villages, as part of the project appraisal, indicated that about 20 percent
of the households in Luxor town and about 60 percent in the neighboring rural
areas are below the poverty line. Employment in the tourism sector, which
accounted in 1978 for approximately 22 percent of the area's active labor
force, provides an income that is far above the median income. Growth in the
tourism sector, foreseen under the project, would provide increased employment
opportunities in construction, as well as in hotels and other tourist services.
These jobs would be filled in part by local people who would otherwise have
migrated to Lower Egypt and in part by in-migration. The Government's plans
include adequate improvement in health and education services, partially to be
financed under the project, to support the expected population growth.
73.       Apart from the benefits flowing from expanded employment in Luxor,
the improvement of basic utilities--water, waste disposal, electricity--would
improve the quality of life and health of a large part of the Luxor popula-
tion. Some poor families may, however, be unable to afford utility charges,
and the need for and provision of assistance to such families would be part
of the study of utility charges that the Government would be asked to carry
out under the project. The study of visitor management of the west bank would
include recommendations on how the population there might continue to benefit
from serving tourists if displaced from their present occupations as a result
of changed visitor management procedures.



- 21 -
74.       As part of the project preparation, a land-use plan was designed and
approved by the City of Luxor, the Governorate of Qena and the Ministry of
Tourism and Civil Aviation. The plan is based on two main concepts which
would assist in protecting Luxor from haphazard and detrimental construction:
(i) no urban or hotel development shall take place on the
west bank of the Nile except for the relocation of people
living on the tombs; and
(ii) environmental protection/conservation zones shall be
preserved around the monuments on both the east and
west banks of the Nile.
75.       The project would bring further improvements to the environment of
the major monuments. Access roads, parking areas, and walkways would be
improved. Measures to control visitor numbers at the monuments on the west
bank to avoid congestion, particularly at the royal tombs, would be taken
after the completion of the visitor management study to be financed under the
proposed project. In addition, funds would be provided for and the Government
has agreed to take measures to protect the paintings of the royal tombs which
are endangered by increased visitor flows (Section 2.11 of the EAO Project
Agreement). The land-use and subdivision regulations required to implement
the Luxor physical plan and the composition of the administrative body respon-
sible for enforcing these regulations would be drawn up in consultation with
IDA (Section 3.12 of the Development Credit Agreement).
76.       The site of the Egyptian Museum has been encroached upon in recent
years with the construction of new roads to the north and east of the Museum.
The Governorate of Cairo proposed to construct bus lanes along the west side
of the Museum, but this proposal has been changed, and the bus terminal is
to be relocated. The Government has agreed that further encroachments on
the Museum site would not be permitted and that vehicular and pedestrian
access to the Museum would be preserved (Section 3.10(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association; the draft Project Agreements between the Asso-
ciation and each of the Project Entities (the Egyptian Antiquities Organiza-
tion, the Governorate of Qena, and the City of Luxor, the Misr Aswan Tourism
Corporation, and the Egyptian Company for Tourism and Hotels); and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
79.       Special conditions of effectiveness are (i) the establishment of the
Project Unit together with the appointment of a Director, Assistant Director,



- 22 -
and procurement officer, and the Museum Implementation Unit; (ii) the submis-
sion of undertakings satisfactory to IDA from the project agencies; and (iii)
the execution of the subsidiary loan agreements with the project entities and
agencies (ECAO and RWWA) (Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 7, 1979
Washington, D.C.



Annex 1
-  23-                                         Page 1 of 5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) &
TOTAL          1001.4                                                SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     29.9                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b   1970 Lb ESTIMATE L       REGION L   GROUP L    GROUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                100.0      160.0    310.0          1438.5      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    298.0      275.0    405.0           816.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                      25.8        33.3      39.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 38.0      42.1      44.6           45.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     26.0        33.0      39.0           23.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0    1125.0   1311.0           112.4      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       43.0        42.1      40.7           46.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                       54.0        54.7      55.9           50.6       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 3.0         3.2       3.4            3.3        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.4         2.6       2.2            2.9        2.4         2.7
URBAN                            6.0         3.6       3.6            5.0        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.5       42.1      37.8           45.0       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.7       17.0      14.0           13.7       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            2.8 If      3.0       3.0            3.4        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..      206.0    184.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        9.0      21.1           14.7       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF OOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           93.5       100.0    100.0           107.1       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0      106.0    113.0            99.2       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        66.0        66.0      70.7           63.4       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.0 jL    16.0      16.0           16.4       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    39.3         ..       ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.9       49.9      52.4           53.7       45.8       13.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         109.0      116.0    100.0            77.7      102.7       82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      74.8           59.1       26.4       31.1
URBAN                             ..          ..      87.7           85.9       63.5       68.5
RURAL                             ..          ..      63.7           38.0       14.1       18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..            64.3       16.1       37.5
URBAN                             ..          ..       ..            94.5       65.9       69.5
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..            27.7        3.4       25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2500.0 /h  1910.0   1820.0 /i        4271.6   13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   2730.0 /h  1640.0 /i 1520.0 /i       2077.4    6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          500.0 /h   460.0    460.0            580.2    1157.6       786.5
URBAN                             ..       290.0    250.0           310.0      183.3      278.4
RURAL                             ..      2110.0   2090.0              ..    1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..            22.0       19.5       19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.0          ..      5.2             5.4        5.2
URBAN                            4.8          ..      5.0              ..       4.8
RURAL                             * -*                5.5              *     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            1.9          ..       1.8
URBAN                            1.6          ..        ..            1.8       1.8         2.3
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           38.0          ..     45.7            40.3      25.9        28.3
URBAN                           37.8          ..      77.0
RURAL                             ..          ..     19.6            12.2        ..        10.3



Annex 1
-  24  -                                     Page 2 of 5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAAES
EGYPST/
-  OT RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT lIGWER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOHk
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION Lc   GROUP /d    GROUP A
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0        69.0       12.0            80.8       62.9         75.8
FEHALE               52.0        53.0      55.0             61.8       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                16.0         33.0      40.0            23.6        14.4        17.7
FEMALE                9.0        21.0       28.0            18.2        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 22.0         19.0      18.0             6.7        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0       40.0            31.5       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                         16.0        25.0       29.0            22.3       19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       20.0           ..      40.0            50.1        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         4.0        6.0            14.5        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        58.0       132.0      140.0           125.8       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9         16.0      17.0            34.5        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   .*         22.0        ..            17.4         6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          2.0        ..             1.6         1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7800.0 1    8300.0 /k 9600.0
FTMALE (PERCENT)                   7.3          7.2       7.6             9.3       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.0 1      53.0 /k   43.9             42.0       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.2        18.8         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.9         28.0      28.0            26.9       39.8         37.8
MALE                                53.2         51.5      51.3            46.6       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               4.2          4.1       4.3             5.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8          1.8       1.8             1.9         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.2 /1        ..      21.0 /m           ..       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  48.41          ..      46.0 /m           ''       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.6 /1        *.       5.2 /m           ..        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.1 L7        *       16.0 /m           *-       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           *-     154.0              *-       88.5        155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      112.0           142.0        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           *-     122.0           236.1       100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..           *-      60.0           144.7       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       22.0            21.5        46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..           ..      30.0            37.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   'Jnless otherwise  oted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;  /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;   /a  1960-62;  /h  1962;    i Registered, not all
practicing in the country; fl Relates to persons six years and over, excluding nomad population;
/k Relates to 12-64 years of age, 1966; /1 1964-65; /m rural only.
September, 1978



- 25 -
Annex 1
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                       Page  3  of  5
kia:   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, hooling, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and coral - Population (tctal,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and speciali-ed hospital at  ro-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments peruer.tiy ot- 'ec D'
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (bat by a medical as-
calcalated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomnodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share liviog quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average snu-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons pec room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment mav exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       above the official school age.
C.ude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
I.rons reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal seproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; ft.ually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutiens in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of .                        sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read asd write) an
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Paasenger cars (per thousand population) - P.asenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were eatimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in cou. -
cent for waste at household level.                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of fond per day.  Ret supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Economically action persons., i-clding armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed bht eocluding housewives, stodents, etc.  Defisi-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in various countries are not conparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percencage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, c-nstruction, manufacturing an.d
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 lemale labor force as percentages of their respective papulaticon.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These a   ILO. adjusred purticipacisn  ar-es reflecting uge--e
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      strucotre of the popria tio-. -nd icng tine treed.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population usder i5 and 65 and over to
oncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received bh  richest S
-onable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per capita) - ub  and rural -
rural - NSmber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                        Absolute poverty income level is that income level belo   hich a .-ni1al
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                         nutritionally adequate diet plan essential non-focd reqcirements is coo
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human ecereta and vante-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poerty income levei (iS) per capital -uban andrural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative pove-rt  income level is that income level less th3n one-third
Populatios per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal r..c..e of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population b_owp o-ert, income level jyemteot) - orban and rol  -
opulatios per nursing Person - Population divided by nuober of                              Percent of pcpulaticn (urban and r-l) who are .1'l-et 'abeol-ce  'o.' -
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
bcnoei- and So-i.l 'c.,.i D--c.r
Economic Analyois and Prjc.ccono Depayrt! cot



- 26 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                           ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5 Pages
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7M. constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1961-6611        1967-74-/         197-7A2/
GNP at Market Prices           13,520        100.0                         5.4              3.6               15.0
Gross Domestic Investment       4,040         29.9                        10.7              5.4               28.5-
Gross National Saving            3,110        23.0                         3.0             -7.0             117.0
Current Account Balance       - 1,580          6.8
Exports of Goods, NFS            3,620        15.7                         4.3              6.2                7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            6,240        27.0                         8.8              9.2               7.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                  Labor Force3/                       V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.                        l Mln.    %                         US $          7
Agricult47e                       3,340       29.0              4.162    41.2                         800        15.9
Industry-                         3,420       29.7             1.903    18.9                        1,800        35.6
Distributive Sector               2,210       19.3             1.557    15.4                        1,420        28.2
Services                          2,530       22.0             2.472    24.5                        1,020        20.3
Total/Average             11500/2875    100 .0           110.091    100.0                       1,140o     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government3/
US$ Mln.       % of GDP
1978     1973       1978
Current Receipts                       5,090     32.6       40.2
Current Expenditure                    4,840     28.9       38.2
Current Surplus                          250      3.7        2.0
Capital Expenditures                   2,740     11.8       21.6
External Assistance (net)                980      1.3        7.8
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       1207       1515       1883      2417       3185       4090
Bank Credit to Public Sector                1852       2338       3527      4123       4775       6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector                102        149        230        251       434        570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           31.7       36.1       38.5       38.5      43.4       48.3
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)         100.0      112.4      119.1      131.4     145.0      171.1
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                       10.4       12.4        6.0       10.3      10.4       18.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 9.6       26.2       50.9      16.9       15.8       26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               10.9       46.1       54.4        9.1      72.9       31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the weighted exchange rate of US $1.496 = 1 I.E.
I/  At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/  At 1975 Constant Prices.
3/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
4/  Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/  Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable
EMl 1DA



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pageE
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975      1976       1977       19781/                                  US$ Min.        %
(USS million)
Cotton                      354         19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,194     2,759      3,536      3,620           Yarn and textiles           364         20.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          -4,931    -4,910    -5,486    -6,240             Petroleum                   441         24.7
Other agriculture           224        12.5
Imports of Foreign                                                              All other commodities       405         22.6
Oil Companies                  -164      -281       -401       -420
Total                 1,788        100.0
Workers' Remittances              366        755        896     1,750
Interest (net)                   -104      -202       -206       -290
Net Transfers                     262        553        690     1,460
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT), DECEMBER 31, 1978
Balance on Current Account   -2,639    -1,879    -1,661    -1,580
Amortization                     -600       -734      -812       -930                                               US$ Mln.
Total Deficit                  -3,239    -2,613    -2,473    -2,510
Public debt, incl. guaranteed       9,221
Direct Foreign Investment         165        342       504        570           Repayments on public debt              930
Grants                          1,076        792       445        200           Interest on public debt                390
MLT Borrowing                   2,509      1.622     3,027      2,510
3,750     2,756      3,976      3,280
Other Capital (Net)              -152        236      -961       -250           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978 -'        24.0%
Residual                         -421       -334      -347       -449
Increase in Reserves (+)          -62         45       195         71
Gross Reserves (end year)         294        339       534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
of which:  Petroleum         -477      -388       -250       -200
Exports
of which:  Petroleum          164       268        600        730
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Rate of Exchange             1973     1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979
(USS : LE)                                                                             3/
Official Exchange Rate    2.5343   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556           -
Parallel Market Rate        1.70     1.70      1.57      1.50     1.43      1.43      1.43
(Sept.)            (Feb.)   (May)
1/ Estimates
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
non-factor services and factor services.
3/ As of January 1, 1979, official exchange rate has been                                                   EM1DA
abolished except for some bilateral transactions.                                                        May 4, 1979



- 28 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                  Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved                                                                   less cancellations
Numbers            FY       Borrower        Purpose                               Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR           60         SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                  56.5     --          --
Cr 181-UAR           70         UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                    --    26.0         2.3
Cr 284-UAR           72         ARE           Railways I                             --    30.0         1.0
Cr 393-UAR           73         ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                   --    36.0         7.7
Cr 412-UAR           73         ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/         --    15.0         0.8
Cr 423-UAR           74         ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation          --    18.5         4.1
Cr 437-UAR           74         ARE           Population                             --     5.0         0.3
Cr 484-UAR           74         ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                      --    20.0         2.8
Cr 524-EGT           75         ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                         --    35.0         0.9
Ln 1062-EGT          75         ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                        35.0     --         1.2
La 1064-EGT          75         SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation             50.0     --        32.7
LD 1085-EGT          75         ARE           Tourah Cement                         40.0     --         7.8
Ln 1098-EGT          75         ER            Railways II                           37.0     --        12.5
Cr 548-EGT           75         ARE           Telecommunications                     --    30.0         9.6
Cr 576-EGT           76         ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    -       25.0         1.3
La 1239-EGT          76         APA           Alexandria Port                       45.0     --        41.9
La 1276-T-EDT 2/    76          ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.              50.0     -         47.0
Cr 637-EGT           76         ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                --    40.0        35.8
Ln 1285-EDT          76         ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II               10.0     --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76         ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                52.0     --        51.0
Ln 1369-EGT          77         AWA           Alexandria Water Supply               56.0     --        55.6
Cr 681-EGT           77         ARE           Education                              --    25.0        14.5
Cr 719-EGT           77         ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 --    27.0        17.5
Ln 1439-EGT          77         ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                27.0     --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                12.0     --        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT          77         EEA           Regional Electrification              48.0     --        45.2
Ln 1456-EGT          77         ARE           Industrial Imports                    70.0     --        60.2
Ln S-005-EGT         77         ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and             2.5     __         1.8
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT          78         SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                 100.0     __        71.3
Cr S-20-EGT          78         ARE           Water Supply Engineering               --     2.0         1.3
Cr 774-EGT           78         ARE           Telecommunications II                  --    53.0        53.0
Ln 1533-EGT          78         DIB           Development Industrial Bank III       40.0      --       39.0
Cr 830-EGT           78         ARE           Agricultural Development               --    32.0        32.0
Cr 831-EGT 3/        78         ARE           Urban Development                      --    14.0        14.0
Cr 850-EGT 3/        79         ARE           Second Population                      --    25.0        25.0
CR 868-EGT 3/        79         ARE           Second Education                       --    40.0        40.0
Totals                                                                             731.0  496.s
Of which has been repaid                                                            56.5
Total now outstanding                                                              674.5
Amount sold                                                               7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                 6.0         1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                     673.0  498.5      780.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year          Obligor                     Type of Business                     Loan         Equity       Total
1976          Arab Ceramic Company       Ceramic Industry                     4.25             .75        5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977          Nile Clothing Company      Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.40          0.20         0.60
1978          Delta Sugar Company        Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                      20.0           2.00        22.00
(Plus 1.0 standby commitment)        (23.00)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1979.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling items, originally Sep-
tember 30, 1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1979; the credit account for
the parts allocated to other items was closed on December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Over 50 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains is almost complete, and full completion is expected by end-1980, i.e.,
6 months behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects
and over 90 percent has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Eff etive Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed in 1981-82. The foreign cost of the project ($43.8 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works. Recently, the project has also encountered delays because of shortage
of local funds.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is expected to be completed by June 1979, although with
reduced scope. About 94 percent of the credit has been disbursed. For
disbursing of the remaining funds (mainly for software activities) an exten-
sion of the closing date to June 30,1979 has been granted.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by June 1979 or 18 months behind schedule, partly because of delays
in civil works and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.9 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Five out of six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed.  The Government has requested
that the unutilized balance of the loan and credit be used for an extension of
some of these studies. These additional studies are designed to either turn
pre-feasibility studies prepared in the context of the sector studies into
feasibility studies, as in the case of a proposed pulp and paper and possibly
another textile project, or to follow up on issues identified in the context
of the sector studies, such as the need for a brick master plan. While
preparation of the pulp and paper feasibility study is almost completed, the
additional studies are expected to be contracted shortly and completed by end
1979. An extension of the Closing Date until December 31, 1979 has, there-
fore, been granted to allow further disbursements for the above studies under
the technical assistance component of the project.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and
revenues are both considerably higher than expected at appraisal. Procurement
is proceeding well.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is almost completed (95
percent). Most items are already on site awaiting erection. After initial
difficulties with the civil works contractor the rate of construction has now
somewhat accelerated. However, delay in start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be about 1-1/2 years.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock, despite the receipt of new locomotives and spare parts. ER
is implementing the recommendations of its consultants, TRANSMARK, with regard
to ER's traction and rolling stock maintenance facilities. Track maintenance
is lagging far behind program, principally because of a lack of traction for
work trains but also because effort is directed to the construction of new
lines. The 1979/83 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which economic justification is doubtful. The finan-
cial situation continues to suffer and a deficit of LE 33 million is forecast
for 1978, although freight tariffs of between 70% to 100% have recently been
approved which should ameliorate the situation.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. $28 million of the
credit have been committed under contracts for cables and cable equipment with
the remaining funds to be used for expected exchange variations on these
contracts. Telex equipment has been obtained with financing from other
sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was deferred to the
second project. The part of the credit originally allocated for the telex
exchange is being used for the purchase of additional cables.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed and $23.7 million have been dis-
bursed as of March 31, 1978.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected but is
now active. Consultants have completed the engineering preparation of
dredging and berth construction, and the works are under tender. Procurement
action on Bank-financed equipment and material is underway. Management
consultants are in the field.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Work on the drain-
age and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although behind
schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project is now over two years
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected. Construction
of open drains is on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement
of equipment for making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year to a year and a half delay
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The
project is now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local
currency) more than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works.
In part this is due to the increased price of building materials recently
approved by the Government; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this,
although some government equity contribution would be required in the next
two years to supplement the companies' internal cash generation in order to
adhere to the financial covenants as well as project costs. Early management



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
project implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting initial delays in procurement. However, between 70-85 percent of
contracts for rachinery and equipment have now been awarded and the balance
is expected to be awarded within the next three months.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
With the exception of the water treatment plants and civil works,
all contracts have been awarded for the Bank financed components under the
project. Bids for the treatment plants are now being evaluated and bidding
for civil works is in progress.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Educa ton Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is proceeding satisfactorily. All technical assistance contracts
have been awarded. Procurement of equipment and furniture under the project
is well advanced. Technical problems have been encountered with the construc-
tion of the two Technical institutes which needed to be redesigned, resulting
in a two year delay for this project item. However, the other 45 institutions
are expected to open classes as scheduled.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Illlion Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Design work for the project is well advanced. Implementation is
behind schedule although construction on the open drains has begun. Tender
documents for the pumping stations have been issued.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. All contracts
for electrification equipment and materials have been awarded and construction
has started. Consultants for the extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey
and for the Tariff Study are in the field. A contract for the review of
safety and inspection procedures has been awarded and another for the training
services will be awarded shortly.
Ln. No. 1456-ECT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The progress of commitment and disbursement of funds under the
project has been slow because of problems associated with the administration



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
of the loan and procurement difficulties arising from the sub-borrowers' lack
of knowledge of Bank guidelines. Furthermore, until November, 1978, foreign
exchange proceeds of the loan were available to sub-borrowers in the public
sector only against cash payments in local currency which suppressed demand
from firms who were short of cash in local currency. Since November, 1978,
government has been making funds available as subloans which has solved the
resource constraint. The Bank has also simplified procurement procedures for
private sector sub-projects costing less than $100,000 to expedite disburse-
ment.  As of March 31, 1979 about $20 million had been committed and $10 mil-
lion disbursed under the project. In addition about $19 million in projects
involving equipment for public firms have been approved by the Bank. In
aggregate, about 56% of funds have been committed or approved and about 14%
actually disbursed. The Bank is planning a mission in May to review the
status and problems of the project. It is quite likely that the closing date
will have to be extended until June 30, 1980 to facilitate disbursement.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies are expected to submit feasibility studies by May 1979.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project execution is satisfactory, although dredging is slower than
planned. Both dredging contracts to be financed by the Bank have been awarded.
Tender documents for equipment have been drawn up and are currently being
discussed in the field. Project planning and supervision arrangements are
progressing well.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28 ,1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants were mobilized in November 1978 and their interim report
was completed in early April 1979.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
March 31, 1979 $1.0 million had been disbursed; $8 million have been committed
and $3.8 million of subprojects are under review. The balance of the Loan is
expected to be committed before the end of 1979.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 774-ECT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project implementation has started. Specifications for the equip-
ment and materials to be financed under the Credit are being prepared. A Gov-
ernment request for reallocation of credit proceeds is under consideration.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The implementing agencies are making satisfactory progress toward
identifying sub-project activities.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is being completed.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Action on effectiveness is being completed.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



-36-                              ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOURISM PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare   22 months (April 1977 to
project:                                 January 1979)
(b)  Agencies preparing project:               Ministries of Tourism and Civil
Aviation; Education, Scientific
Research and Culture; Transport;
Telecommunication and Shipping;
Power and Energy; the General
Organization for Potable Water;
and the German Agency for Technical
Cooperation.
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank:                                    April 1977
(d)  Date of preparation mission:              October and December 1977;
April and October 1978
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                  June 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:    April 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           November 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Early mission to assist the Government to complete the conditions
of credit effectiveness.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        Condition of credit effectiveness.
(i) Establishment of the Project Unit and appointment of three officers
in the Ministry of Tourism and a Museum Implementation Unit in the
Egyptian Antiquities Organization (paragraph 53);
(ii) Submission of undertakings, as described in Schedule 4 of the
Development Credit Agreement, satisfactory to IDA from the following
Project Agencies with regard to their respective components of the



- 37 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
project: General Organization of Potable Water, Egyptian Elec-
tricity Authority, Rural Electrification Authority, Egyptian Civil
Aviation Organization, the Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunica-
tions Organization and the Roads and Waterways Authority (para-
graph 79);
(iii) Execution of subsidiary loan agreements with the Project Entities:
City of Luxor, Egyptian Electricity Authority, the Arab Republic of
Egypt Telecommunications Organization, Egyptian General Organization
for Tourism and Hotels, Misr Aswan Tourism Corporation, and the
Egyptian Antiquities Organization; and the two Project Agencies:
the Egyptian Civil Aviation Organization, and the Roads and Water-
ways Authority (paragraph 79).
2.        Other conditions.
(a) a Water and Sanitation Department would be established within the
Luxor City administration by June 30, 1981 (paragraph 56);
(b) pedestrian and vehicular access to the Egyptian Musuem site would
be protected; the management, organization, budgeting procedures
and staffing of the Museum would be upgraded; visitor entry fees
would be increased; the collections of the Museum would remain
intact; and the Museum would remain the principal repository of
Egyptian antiquities in Cairo for fifteen years after the completion
of the museum renovation (paragraphs 58, 65, 70 and 76);
(c) the studies of municipal services, airport costs, hotel tariffs and
investment costs, and a 5-year plan for the antiquities sector would
be completed within 18 months of Credit effectiveness, and (i)
charges would be levied with a view to recovering investment and
operating costs of non-revenue earning components of the project in
Luxor and of those attributable to civil aviation services provided
at domestic airports in Egypt, and (ii) differential user charges
would be levied for water supply, sewerage and solid waste disposal
services at levels which would yield from 1985 revenues adequate
to cover costs of operation, maintenance and depreciation and
interest on the loan capital invested in them (paragraphs 49(D)(iii)
and (iv) and 56);
(d) the planning and budget unit of EAO (the Egyptian Antiquities
Organization) would be strengthened and would formulate a five-year
program for development of the antiquities sector (paragraph
49(D)(ii));
(e) the Government would ensure that a sufficient number of hotel rooms
would be in operation in Luxor in each year from 1984 to make the
project economically viable and the hotels in Luxor and Abu Simbel
would be allowed to set prices at levels which would yield an annual
return in real terms of at least 10 percent on investment (paragraph
69).






EBRD 13940
NOVEMBER 1978
'N                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
N  [05R INERNATONALEGYPT  TOURISM   PROJECT
AIRPORT                                            ~~~~~~~~Luxor Master Plan
V                        0 iMrER            3             V
> <\~~ Sonnert Sceese ~~~A                          Losor Pr-oto  Hotel I School
nesiesot ron-i                   U~~ West Book Visitor Center
L ...r T--is Tors
Antiguities Protectio  Zores
x>.                                                                                                                                                           ill It I Ill ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Urban A-e - heisting
U,br-o Ar-o - E.pon-io
Leroc Villagec
o   R~re,I Settlemets
M-in Roods
_                                                     ---Minor~~~~~~~~~~M-Roads
~~~t                     Stow~.d.y  Mo-e Lere
NN    N  .  n--                                                                                                 7         N                                     -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E-tR-on P-- N -rma dGouge
\    K  n-                                                                                                                                                 -v--n-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.r-Conols
"   K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LdpdP-.([-~.
~~~ K~~ 






_______________________________                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 13941R
LU R K E                                                                                                                                                       FEBRUARY 1979
A<po  CC2        ) SYR I' A   
ir~  CyaryD    5HRIA(
LE                    I R                                                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
.  --OAR  \Ss                                                     EGYPT TOURISM  PROJECT
L I E Y A | EGYPTa S                                           A                                              U D I Project Location
S AABUDIA
_ s          g       9    ~~~~~~~A R A E I A
CH A              D                                                                                              1O              200            300
SUSAN         -        YEIENi                                                                          KILOMETERS
        0    , E~~~THIOPI
2'^'                         j0'                                                         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-  l
M4   d i t e r r a n e a n                                                                               *        Project Loc-tion
C.It ivoted Areas
er-Intirtonal Airports
(                               Mot5o MotcssB                                                                                                A                +      * Dorestic Airports
,                 *                                              a    X  <tS:id                                       . V TO    O  COPjTOI CjTY~~~Alxand  Soi
4s  -  AI~~~~~~~~~ooodrs ~~~~~~~~~                                       /        -         ~~~~~~~ Copitol City
TI    0      CitiesonrdTo.san
-'          Rivers
(                                          -- ---- -                                                                                                                   Wadis
-30'                               -+ 9.i                                                                                                           \30 -   -. -    Internotionol Botindories
>     ' - (20ts Tro        .                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GizocCAIR0  Suz.
| ~~, , Dep ressio/7   '   7;Helwon  %  /   s                                                                                        JORDANn
jW  E S T f R N
Hi,r, r                                     ARS A  U  D  I
rn  j                                                         A$, 2                      vs     ~~~~~~~~~            ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hurgh.d  i  S   R A  B I A
-26' je.-                                                                                                                                                                                           26
.~~D   SE  TA
ton
j                                                                                                                     ldi(AKI
+Asscon
This cap hot bettn prepared by the                                                                            
World Books stoff-closcely fr                                                                            i/fi  oss c.
the conceo,eoce of thel rteders of
*the repnort to Which it is attache d                                  rn.                                             9 
The deoormmatios Asedard the                                                                                          1        '     
| bAoocderi,sotottOw  00 thit mTaP                                                                                 .              K                       
do not imply, on the pert of th e                                                         Abo S,m bel>,
WrId   k aod to afliet, any                                                              AbuI         _    '5'
any terri tory or MVy tTdorstemet ntr                                                                                                                                                  \
?T  ! creccptecceofeochb,rudeceo                                                                               |                                                                                  . 22-
b-d_-_ h._____--sl-- - WI  p
d_  .-p2ly                                                                   30- StU DpA  N                                                  34-h



