Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIC'IAL USE ONLY                        C
Report No. 2284-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOURISM PROJECT
April 26, 1979
Tourism Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C.URRENCY
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 Piastras = 1000 Milliemes (Mm)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                   =  US$1.43
1 US Dollar                             =  LE 0.7
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)       2                     =  39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (= )                     =  10.8 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (m )                      =  35.3 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                        =  0.62 mil12 (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                          =  10,000 e  or 2.471 acres
1 acre                                  =  4,047 m  or 0.405 hectares
1 liter per capita per day (1cd)        =  0.264 US gallon per capita
per day (gpcd)
1 k,ilowatt (kW)                        =  1000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)                         =  1000 kilowatts
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)                 =  1000 volt amperes
t megavolt ampere (MVA)                 =  1000 kilovolt amperes
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARETO      -   Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization
EAO        -   Egyptian Antiquities Organization
ECAO       -   Egyptian Civil Aviation Organization
EEA        -   Egyptian Electricity Authority
EGOTH      -   Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels
C of L     -   City of Luxor
FFAMSLP    -   Fund for Financing Antiquities, Museums and Sound and
and Light Projects
G of A     -   Governorate of Aswan
GOPW       -   General Organization for Potable Water
GTZ        -   German Agency for Technical Cooperation
MATCO      -   Misr Aswan Tourism Company
MECSR      -   Ministry of Education, Culture and Scientific Research
MT         -   Ministry of Transportation
MTCA       -   Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation
REA        -   Rural Electrification Authority
RWWA       -   Roads and Watierways Authority
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TOURISM PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TOURISM SECTOR ......................................           1
A.   Tourism Assets ...... .................                        1
B.   Tourism Demand, Trends and Characteristics .....1.... 
C.   Hotels and Other Tourist Facilities ................           3
D.   Air Access and Tourist Transport Systems ...........           5
E.   Institutional and Organizational Aspects ..........     .      6
F.   Training ........ .................                            7
G.   Public Sector Policies and Development Plans    .......        7
H.   Role of Tourism in the Economy ................                9
II. THE PROJECT.                                                           9
A. Background.                                                      9
B. Project Description               . . .                         1
Luxor Infrastructure Facilities           .     .]L1
Luxor Archaeological Sites  ] 5...
Luxor Tourist Accommodations         .    .     .]L5
Abu Simbel Facilities          .. .L7
Egyptian Museum Renovation.                  .            1L7
Technical Assistance and Studies .18
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN .19
A. Cost Estimates                          .19
Customs Duties and Taxes .21
Contingency Allowances .22
Foreign Exchange Component .22
B. Financial Plan .22
The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. J. A. Simmons, E. Echeverria,
T. Iizuka, I. A. Menezes, F. Mitchell, T. Persaud and Ms. J. de Regt
who visited Egypt in June/July 1978. While in the field, the mission
received assistance from Messrs. L. Vera (TMP), R. G. MacWilliam (EMP),
Mrs. J. A. Wishart (TRP), Mr. G. S. Burrows (consultant) and Mr. T. Atif
(consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.    PROJECT EXECUTION AND OP'ERATION .........................                     23
A.    Project Execution ..................................                    23
Project Implementation  ..........................                  23
Design and Supervision of Construction ...              .......     25
Procurement  .....................................                  25
Disbursement  ....................................                  26
B.    Operation and Management  ...........................                   26
V.    MARKET PROSPECTS  ........................................                    28
A.    Projected Visitor Arrivals  .........................                   28
B.    Visitors to Luxor ..................................                    29
C.    Visitors to the Egyptian Museum  ....................                   30
VI.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS  ..................         ..      ...................      31
A.    Financial Objectives  ...............................                   31
B.   Financial Forecasts  ................................                    32
Luxor and Abu Simbel Hotel Accommodation ...              ......     32
Luxor Hotel Training School and Practice Hotel                       34
Water Supply, Sewerage and Solid Waste Disposal                      34
Egyptian Museum ..................................                   36
VII.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................................                      37
A.    The Economic Return from Tourism at Luxor ...               .......     37
Benefits and Costs of Tourism Facilities  ... .....                 37
Rates of Return .................................                   39
B.   Economic Returns from Tourism at Abu Simbel ... .....                    40
C.    Economic Returns from the Renovation of the
Egyptian Museum ..................................                   41
D.   Beneficiaries  ......................................                    41
E.    Employment Generation ..............................                    42
F.    Foreign Exchange Earnings  ..........................                   42
G.    Risks  ..............................................                   43
VIII.    SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS  ........................                     43
A.    Social Aspects  .....................................                   43
Population of Luxor .............        ..      ..............     43
Employment and Income ...........................                   44
B.    Environmental Aspects  .............        ..      ...............     45
Land Use and Zoning .............         ..     ..............     45
IX.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS  .....               ........    47



- iii-
ANNEXES
ANNEX I         Statistical Tables (1-11)
ANNEX II        Project Cost and Disbursement Tables (1-5)
ANNEX III       The Monuments of the Nile
ANNEX IV       Market Prospects
ANNEX V        Financial Projections Tables (1-15)
Notes to the Tables
ANNEX VI       Economic Analysis Tables (1-7)
ANNEX VII      Egyptian Museum
ANNEX VIII     Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
MAP             IBRD 13941  Project Location
MAP             IBRD 13940  Luxor Master Plan






EGYPT TOUJRISM PROJECT
I. THE TOURISM SECTOR
A. Tourism Assets
1.01      Egypt has one of the oldesi: tourism traditions in the world.  Its
archaelogical sites dating from the 27th century B.C. to the Christian era
and many natural attractions--the Ni:Le, the desert, and the beaches--have
long fascinated the traveler. Egypt has for centuries been an important:
cultural, religious, and political cienter of the Arab world. Hence it has
long attracted Arab visitors as well as visitors from the West.
1.02      The oldest and most important historical and cultural attractiLons
are the temples and tombs of the Pharaonic dynasties, which are scattered
along the length of the Nile Valley. Among the most important of these
monuments and temples are the Giza Pyramids, the Sphinx and the Sakkara
Pyramid and tombs in Lower Egypt, andl the great temples of Luxor, Karnak,
Edfu, Philae and Abu Simbel, and the Necropolis at Luxor in Upper Egypt.
1.03      Attractions from the Roman and early Christian periods include
buildings and artifacts located mostLy in Alexandria. More recent monuments
of Islamic and Coptic cultures include many mosques, churches, and palaces.
Three notable museums in Cairo, i.e., the Egyptian, the Coptic and the I]slamic
Museum, display artifacts from all periods of Egypt's history.
1.04      The climate in Egypt is co-nducive to year-round tourism although
summer temperatures are high. Beach--oriented tourism has developed in
Alexandria, mainly for the domestic market. The Red Sea beaches have more
appeal for Europeans interested in winter sunshine and snorkeling, but they
are relatively undeveloped. The Nile with the nearby temples and tombs is
still one of Egypt's main attractions. Cruises of four days to two weeks
along the Upper Nile have long been a favorite of foreign tourists. The
desert is a significant, but still largely unexploited asset for a specialized
market.
B. Tourism Demand,-Trends and-Characteristics
1.05      Despite the setbacks resulting from conflicts in the region, f-oreign
tourism to Egypt over the past 25 years has grown at an average compouncl rate
of 11% per annum (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2). A peak was reached in 1966, when
visitor arrivals numbered 579,000.  This number was not exceeded until 1974,
but since then the growth rate has accelerated to 15% per annum, and over 1
million visitors were recorded in 1977. The increase in visitor arrivals has
been accompanied by several changes in the characteristics and composition of
visitor traffic. Although Arab visitor numbers have increased since 1970,
their share in total arrivals declin-ed from almost 65% in that year to 47% in



- 2 -
1977. The proportion of EuropearL visitors increased from 18% to 38% over this
period and in the last three years the proportion of North American visitors
has risen sharply. The principal countries of origin of non-Arab visitors to
Egypt are the USA, the Federal Republic of Germany, France,  the U K -A T_ 1-
Visitors from these countries together accounted for over 75% of total non-Arab
visitors in 1977. Visitors from Canada, Australia and Japan have also regis-
tered significant increases in recent years.
1.06      While visitor numbers continued to increase, the average length of
stay, particularly for Arab visitors, has decreased significantly as shown
in Table 1. The general scarcity of accommodation, changing tourist pref-
erences (e.g., for multi-country tours), and changing composition of Arab
visitors are responsible for the decline in the average length of stay.
Table 1: TOURIST ARRIVALS AND LENGTH OF STAY IN EGYPT, 1966-78
1966   1970   1974   1975   1976   1977   1977*  1978*
Foreign arrivals (000)  579    358    680    793    984   1004    672    663
Nights spent (000)       9783   4574   6505   5854   6339   6796   4083   4396
Average length of
stays (days)
Arabs                25      16      11      8       8      7       7       7
Europeans             12      8       9      7       6      5       5       6
Americans              6      5       5      6       6      6       6       6
Others                11      6       7      6       5      5       6       6
Overall              16.9   12.8    9.6    7.4    6.4    6.8    6.1    6.6
*    January - August.
1.07      Records of visitor arrivals categorized by purpose of visit are not
available but it is estimated that about 30% of all visitors are on business.
The Government's recent "open door" policy, the Lebanon conflict, increasing
business activity in Egypt and Arab states, have all led to increased flows of
businessmen into Egypt. Many Arab visitors are attracted by the relatively
unconstrained social life in Egypt, while non-Arab holiday visitors are
primarily interested in its antiquities.



-.3-
1.08      'lost visitors to Egypt in recent years arrived by air (80%), the
remainder by sea or road. With the reopening of the Suez Canal, sea arrivals
as a percentage of total arrivals grew to 16% in 1977 from a 1970 low of 5%.
Strained relations with Libya are mainly responsible for the decline in road
arrivals from about 20% in 1970 to 3% in 1977.
1.09      Compared to several competing destinations, there is little seasonal
fluctuation in tourist arrivals in Egypt; various categories of tourists pro-
duce peaks which are consecutive rather than coincidental. West European
visitors peak in spring and autumn while most East Europeans arrive in the
winter. Arab tourists come mainly in the summer, when domestic tourism is
also at its peak.
C. Hotels and Other Tourist Facilities
1.10      There are currently 139 registered hotels in Egypt with a total
of 10,500 rooms. About 55% of this capacity is located in Cairo, 15% in
Alexandria, 10% in Aswan, and 7% in Luxor. In addition, there are non-
registered accommodations in the country, mostly boarding houses, with an
estimated total capacity of some 10,000 rooms.
1.11      Hotels in Egypt are classified from 1- to 5-star, depending on
their quality.  Most tourists from the West stay in the 3- to 5-star hotels,
while the lower category hotels and boarding houses cater to other visitors
and domestic tourism. Of the total registered capacity, it is estimated that
there are currently about 6,000 rooms of international standard. Though the
number of Western visitor arrivals to Egypt has increased significantly, the
supply of hotel rooms has not kept pace. This limited supply in relation to
demand has resulted in shorter visitor stays (para. 1.06) and in high hotel
occupancies. Large additions to capacity are now under construction in Cairo,
and the number of rooms available in 4- and 5-star hotels there will approxi-
mately triple in the next three years.
1.12      The peak season for hotels in Upper Egypt is winter and for hotels
in Alexandria it is summer.  The average year-round room occupancy rate for
5-star hotels in Cairo operated by foreign companies rose from 95% in 1975 to
98% in 1977. The 1977 average room occupancy rate for selected 3- to 5-star
hotels under Egyptian management was: 90% in Cairo; 74% in Alexandria; 66% in
Luxor; and 60% in Aswan. The high occupancy rates in Cairo reflect in part
price controls, where average room rat'es in 5-star hotels were about US$40
after sales taxes and commissions in :1977. These rates are below what the
market would bear and lower than in neighboring tourism destinations (e.g.
Jordan and Israel) and much below prices in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States.
Average room rates in lower category hotels varied between US$22 and US$27 in
1977. The relatively low occupancies achieved by hotels in Upper Egypt
reflect the fact that most hotels in Luxor and Aswan have traditionally closed
in the summer. However, this is changing, with more hotels being kept open
for a longer period in the year.



- 4 -
1.13      Many foreign tourists (20,000 in 1977) take 4- to 14-day cruises
along the Nile. There are presently 11 boats with a total of 354 cabins
(about 1,000 beds); some cruise between Cairo and Aswan, some between Luxor
and Aswan. One boat is permanently docked in Luxor and others moor in Cairo
during the summer to supplement hotel accommodation. Since the boats have
been very profitable, several new ones with modern equipment are on order.
1.14      Following the policy of: nationalization after the revolution of
1952, the Government became the nmain owner of the larger hotels.  EGOTH, a
Government-owned enterprise, owns most of the international standard hotels
as well as a substantial number of the lower category hotels throughout the
country. EGOTH owns the Sheraton (400 rooms), Meridien (287 rooms), Oberoi
Mena House (285 rooms) in Cairo; Oberoi (170 rooms) in Aswan; and ETAP (131
rooms) in Luxor.  Another state enterprise, the Misr Hotels Company, in a
joint venture with the private sector, owns the Nile Hilton (400 rooms). At
present, no international standard hotel in Egypt is owned by foreigners.
1.15      Several of the higher category hotels in Egypt are operated by
foreign management companies; Hi]Lton and Sheraton from the US, Meridien
and ETAP from France, and Oberoi from India. Apart from these foreign man-
agement companies, the Egyptian Company for Hotels, a state enterprise,
operates 18 hotels with a total capacity of 2,595 rooms which cater largely
to foreign tourists. A subsidiary of the Egyptian Company for Hotels operates
three hotels (608 rooms) in Luxor, three hotels (452 rooms) in Aswan and one
hotel (20 rooms) in Abu Simbel.
1.16      In spite of generally high occupancies, profitability experience
is varied. Typically, foreign-managed hotels in Cairo have achieved gross
operating profits of over 50%. lIotels managed by Government-owned hotel
companies, on the other hand, have achieved gross operating profits varying
from 25% to about 35%. The lower profitability of the latter reflects poor
management in some cases, the large staffs these hotels are forced to maintain,
and ineffective cost control as well as lower tariffs imposed on the lower
category hotels. The Egyptian authorities are aware of these differences in
operating efficiency which largely reflect the constraints under which Govern-
ment-owned hotel companies operate. Legislation to give greater flexibility
(for example, in employment policies and in setting wage levels) to the
Government-owned companies is being considered, but any marked improvement in
the standards of efficiency of these companies is likely to come about rather
slowly.
1.17      Construction costs of hotels have increased rapidly in recent years.
Costs of local building materials and labor have increased at an annual aver-
age rate of about 18% during the last three years. Costs of imported equip-
ment and fixtures have increased by over 20% annually in the same period. As
a result, average investment costs in the country today are estimated to be
over US$70,000 per room for a typical international 5-star hotel, excluding
the cost of land, and over U$40,000 per room for 3-star hotels. Costs also
vary considerably with location. Costs of hotels in Upper Egypt, for example,
are 20-25% higher than of comparable hotels in Cairo. The rising costs of new
hotel projects has led some investors to consider ways of reducing the size



- 5 -
of the project or phasing it differently. This is particularly true in areas
outside Cairo, e.g., new projects of Marriott and Sheraton hotels in Luxor are
currently being redesigned.
D. Air Access and the Tourist Transport Systems
1.18      Forty-two international scheduled air carriers, including the
national carrier Egyptair, serve Cairo. Egyptair, a Government corporation
operating under the general direction of the Ministry of Tourism and Civil
Aviation, carried 1.3 million passengers on scheduled domestic and interna-
tional flights in 1977, including 333,200 on domestic routes to and within
Upper Egypt. Since 1970 Egyptair's international passenger traffic to and
from Cairo has grown at an average rate of 13% p.a. Egyptair's market share
has declined from around 50% in 1970 to about 33% currently. This has occurred
largely because foreign air travel to Egypt has been growing much faster (19%
p.a.) than Egyptian travel abroad (less than 5% p.a.) and foreign airlines
have been better able to expand capacity. Most of this traffic is carried
on scheduled flights--only 7% of international arrivals in Cairo arrive by
charter aircraft. With the reduction in air traffic to Beirut, Cairo has
become an increasingly important hub for Middle East air traffic.
1.19      Egyptair operates a relatively limited domestic route system con-
necting Cairo, Luxor, Aswan, Abu Simbel and the Red Sea resort of Hurghada.
It is estimated that around 80% of the passengers on these routes are foreign
tourists. Growth on these routes has averaged 30% annually since 1970.
Egyptair has had difficulty in coping with this expansion. However, since
completing its fleet standardization program in 1977, and phasing out olcder,
more costly and less reliable planes, Egyptair has obtained additional capac-
ity and more flexibility in scheduling. Egyptair's fleet now includes eight
154-seat Boeing 707-320 C (international routes), eight 122-seat Boeing 737s
(international and domestic routes) and two leased 278-seat Airbus A-300
aircraft (international and domestic routes). Further capacity increases
through acquisition of additional wide-bodied aircraft to cope with peak
demands at major tourism centers are envisaged. The reservation system of
Egyptair has not worked well, but the system is being computerized and im-
proved telecommunication links are being installed. These improvements
are expected to be completed by the end of 1980.
1.20      Most of Egypt's major tourist destinations can be reached by road
from Cairo. Tourists use buses, minibuses and cars to reach destinations
within a radius of 200-250 km of Cairo and other main cities. For more
distant destinations tourists mainly use alternative means of transport e.g.,
rail and air. It is estimated that more than half the visitors to Upper Egpyt
travel by train. Plane arrivals account for about 40% while the remainder
arrive by Nile cruisers and by road. Many visitors use more than one trans-
port mode to go to and return from Upper Egypt.



- 6 -
1.21      The railway system suffers from obsolescence.  Plans are currently
being implemented to restore and expand the national rail system including
renovation of the lines in Upper Egypt. There are currently 50 sleeping cars
serving Upper Egypt and new sleepirln, and dinitg cars are expected to come into
operation in 1979. To ensure higher standards of service, the management of
the Egyptian railways is exploring the possibility of establishing a joint
venture with a European railway company to operate the new passenger trains.
E. Institutional and Organizational Aspects
1.22      The Government, directly or through state agencies, plays a major
role in the tourism sector. Responsibility for the sector lies with the
Ministry of Tourism whose main tasks include: (a) planning of tourism activ-
ities; this includes development of tourism areas e.g., the Luxor tourism
zone (Law No. 2 of 1973); (b) promotion of tourism in Egypt and abroad; and
(c) regulation of tourist facilities, and services; this includes regulation
of prices and incentives (Law No. 1 of 1973).
1.23      The Ministry of Tourism, with about 1,200 employees in 1978, has
four agencies under it: EGOTH, Misr Travel, Egyptian Company for Hotels,
and Misr Grand Hotel Company. Although the smallest in terms of employment
(it has fewer than 100 employees), EGOTH, which has acquired almost all of
the Government-owned hotels, is the largest in terms of assets with a capital
that now surpasses US$100 million. EGOTH also has an important role in hotel
training, owning and operating the hotel schools in Cairo and Alexandria.
Misr Travel is a travel agency and tour operator, created in 1934 by Misr
Bank, which owns more than half of tourist bus capacity and is estimated to
handle ground transportation for 30-40% of foreign tourists. The Egyptian
Company for Hotels, created in late 1975, manages 18 of EGOTH's 23 hotels, and
the Misr Grand Hotel Company is responsible for overseeing the construction of
EGOTH's new hotels. Following the 1975 reorganization of the public sector,
these three agencies as well as EGOT]H have been operating in a relatively
decentralized manner.
1.24      Another Government agency of importance to the development of
tourism is the Egyptian Antiquities Organization (EAO), a dependency of the
Ministry of Education, Culture and Scientific Research. Over and above its
strictly conservationist activities, the EAO plays a critical role in managing
Egypt's archaeological sites and museums. It is responsible for overseeing
all archaeological work at the sites, and for guarding the sites and museums
against theft of artifacts and damage by visitors. The EAO's operations are
financed through the budget of the Miinistry of Education, Culture and Scien-
tific Research, from entry fees of visitors to monuments and museums, and from
the proceeds of foreign exhibitions and donations. All receipts other than
budgetary appropriations are paid into the Fund for Financing Antiquities,
Museums and Sound and Light Projects (FFAMSLP). Proceeds from entry fees
totalled LE 1.86 million in 1977 and exceeded LE 2 million in 1978. Receipts
from foreign exhibitions were LE 2.7 million over the past two years. As of
December 1978, the FFAMSLP had resources of LE 6.6 million, of which about



- 7 -
LE 2.6 million equivalent was held in foreign exchange. While the resources
of the Fund have risen rapidly in recent years, no well-conceived program for
spending these resources on the development of antiquities sites, museums and
sound and light projects has yet been formulated by the EAO. In reviewing
investment alternatives, improvements to the Egyptian Museum in Cairo to help
overcome its severe management and conservation problems would clearly be of
high priority.
F. Training
1.25      Top management in Egyptian- and foreign-managed hotels is generally
very competent (Egypt exports hotel managers), but service often needs con-
siderable improvement at middle level supervisory and lower working levels,
where lack of training is most conspicuous. Both the Ministry of Education
and the Ministry of Tourism are entrusted with the responsibility of training
personnel for tourism. While the Min:istry of Education concentrates on
medium- to upper-level training at the University of Helwan, the Ministry of
Tourism concentrates on vocational training in two hotel schools, to which
practice hotels are attached.
1.26      EGOTH operates the two hotel schools.  One in Cairo, at the Con-
tinental Hotel, offers three-month vocational courses for 100 students at a
time. The other hotel school operates in the remodeled Hotel Mediterranee
in Alexandria. It offers vocational and middle level courses to 180 students
a year.  EGOTH plans to open three more schools, the first one in Luxor under
the proposed project, the others in Fayyoum and at the Pyramids. This last
school would be operated in conjunction with Sheraton. EGOTH schools offer
rigorous training programs which produce graduates who are much in demand.
The output of these schools, however, cannot match the demand. Hence, some
hotel management companies have their own on-the-job training programs.
G. Public Sector PoliciLes and Development Plans
1.27      Before 1973, the Egyptian Government did not encourage private
participation in the tourism sector. The "open door" policy adopted in 1974
provides several incentives aimed at encouraging both domestic and foreign
private investment in tourism as well as other sectors (Laws No. 43 of 1974
and 32 of 1977). Some of the main provisions of these laws are guarantees
against nationalization and confiscation of private property, exemption from
several labor requirements which publ-ic sector companies face (e.g., having
labor representatives on the company's Board of Directors), permission to have
companies maintain foreign exchange accounts in Egypt, permission to repatriate
profits, duty-free importation of construction and maintenance equipment, and
tax holidays on profits for up to eight years.  Private management companies
are now being actively encouraged to take equity positions in new hotel
projects and financing is being sought from sources in the Middle East, Europe
and North America.



1.28      The Government regulates the prices of tourism services, principally
hotel room tariffs, prices of food and beverages in hotels and transport (in-
cluding taxi) fares. In recent years of high tourism demand, prices, partic-
ularly in higher category hotels in Cairo, have been maintained at levels less
than the market would have supported. The tourism authorities argue that were
hoteliers allowed to set their own tariffs, prices would be so high in relation
to competitive destinations as to clamage Egypt's reputation for the future.
The Ministry of Tourism has agreed that the impact of price controls on hotels
should be studied in the context of the proposed project (para. 2.41(iv)).
With the large number of new hotel rooms to be opened in Cairo in the next
two to three years (para. 1.11), the Ministry believes that rooms there may
in time be offered at prices below the permitted maxima.
1.29      In the past, one effect of price controls has been to discourage
private capital (both local and foreign) from investing more heavily in
hotels. Private investors have invested, but mainly in smaller and lower
category hotels. The mobilization of the large sums needed for the larger,
higher category hotels has requirecd the continued participation of the state.
This situation is unlikely to change rapidly, and EGOTH plans to continue to
be active in the hotel field. Over the next five years (1978-82), EGOTH plans
to invest over LE 200 million. This sum is to be used in several projects,
some of which will be undertaken by EGOTH alone and others in partnership
with private companies. The planned average annual expenditure of about
LE 40 million between 1978 and 1982 contrasts sharply with annual expenditures
of about LE 1 million between 1968 and 1972, and LE 13 million in 1975, and
reflects the increasing priority accorded by the Government to tourism
development.
1.30      Egypt's draft 1978-82 economic plan, after providing for the expan-
sion of urgently needed capacity in Cairo, called for the concentration of
tourism investment along the north-west coast to develop new resorts, designed
largely to attract beach vacation traffic from Europe and to provide for
vacation demands by Egyptian and Arab visitors. The program envisaged heavy
infrastructure investments made necessary by the relative isolation of the
area chosen. In 1977 the Bank recommended that priority should be given
rather to expanding capacities for the cultural tourism segment of the market,
where Egypt enjoys unique assets in strong demand, and where the costs of
expanding capacity are likely to be less. In the European market for summer
beach vacations, Egypt necessarily faces strong competition from other
Mediterranean destinations, most of which are closer to tourist originating
countries and hence enjoy transport cost advantages. The Government recog-
nized that the expansion of culturaLl tourism should be accorded priority, but
also plans to expand beach tourism on the western Mediterranean and Red Sea
coasts and to develop new tourist areas in the Suez Canal zone.
1.31      With the major hotel construction program currently underway in
Cairo, the most important capacity constraints which have hampered the growth
of tourism in the past will be alleviated in the next few years. Hence addi-
tions to capacity in Upper Egypt are of high priority if the potential for
expanding the flow of cultural tourism to Egypt is to be realized. This will



- 9 -
require substantial investments in new hotels and transport capacities and
also in urban infrastructure to support the expansion of hotels, particularly
in Luxor.
H. Role of Tourism in the Economy
1.32      Tourism benefits the Egyptian economy in several ways, chief among
which is its contribution to foreign exchange earnings. Officially recorded
foreign exchange receipts from tourism have increased from US$71 million
equivalent in 1968 to US$278 million in 1975 and US$729 million in 1977.
Recent increases in officially recorded tourism receipts are partly related to
the legalization (in 1975/76) of tourism transactions at the parallel market
exchange rate. The official rate was US$2.56 per LE, compared to the parallel
market rate of US$1.43 per LE. The reliability of the data is open to some
doubt, but it is clear that earnings from tourism are among the major sources
of Egypt's foreign exchange earnings, along with workers' remittances from
abroad and cotton and textile exports (Annex 1, Table 9). Earnings from
tourism reach several groups of recipiernts. Aside from private owners of
tourist establishments, the Government receives benefits directly through
organizations such as Egyptair, EGOTH arid Misr Travel Agency, and benefits
indirectly through corporate taxes, payroll taxes and hotel levies. Some
foreign exchange earned goes out of Egypt in the form of fees to foreign
management companies and foreign exchange costs of maintenance and operating
expenditures. It is estimated that these costs do not exceed 25% of gross
foreign exchange revenue.
1.33      Other beneficiaries of tourism include employees of hotels, travel
agencies and nightclubs, taxi operators,, tour guides and sellers of curios.
Most of these occupations draw people from a pool of unskilled and semi-
skilled workers in Egypt and provide wages and benefits which are generally
above the average earned in other comparable occupations. It is estimated
that about 30,000 people are employed in firms dealing directly with tourists.
Perhaps as many again are employed indirectly in providing goods and services
(e.g., foodstuffs and curios) which tourists consume.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.01      The proposed project would coinsist of three geographically separate
components: (i) the strengthening of infrastructure to provide the basis for
new hotel capacity in Luxor with the renovation of one hotel and the con-
struction of a hotel school; (ii) a modest expansion of hotel capacity at
Abu Simbel with its supporting infrastructure; and (iii) the renovation of
the Egyptian Museum in Cairo.



- 10 -
2.02      Luxor is the most important archaeological site in Upper Egypt,
visited in 1977 by some 183,000 tourists.  Located about 670 km south of Cairo,
it contains the remains of magnificent temples and tombs built primarily by
the Pharaohs of the New Kingdom <56th -          century L.C.,   On Cie easc
bank of the Nile are the great temples of Luxor and Karnak, dedicated to
the sun-god Amon-Ra, and on the west bank the remains of the mortuary temples
of Queen Hatshepsut, Seti I, Ramses II and Ramses III, the Colossi of Memnon,
and the royal tombs in the Valley of the Kings and the Valley of the Queens,
and in the hills and cliffs nearby over 400 tombs of the Nobles. While most
of the precious artifacts buried in the tombs have long since disappeared,
the walls and ceilings of the principal tomba-,re painted with beautiful
scenes and inscriptions (Annex III).
2.03      Luxor has some 700 higher category hotel rooms and approximately
400 rooms of lower standard in some 27 small hotels. Public and private
companies have plans to add another 1,050 higher category rooms by 1984,
and private investors are already adding new rooms in lower category hotels.
These developments are severely hampered by inadequate infrastructure services.
Water and electric power supplies are even inadequate to meet current demands,
and the town has no sewerage system. Telecommunications are deficient and
the airport and the local road network require improvement, if greater visitor
flows are to be served adequately. Improved facilities to accommodate the
increasing numbers of tour boats docking at Luxor as well as the expansion
of traffic crossing the river to the west bank by ferry are also required.
2.04      Some 600 km south of Luxor on the shore of Lake Nasser lies the
colossal Nubian temple complex of Abu Simbel, built by Ramses II and dedi-
cated to the sun gods Amon-Ra and Ra-Horaklite. When the construction of the
Aswan High Dam threatened to submerge Abu Simbel in the early 1960s, Unesco
and the Egyptian Government launched a worldwide appeal to save the site.
Between 1964 and 1972, an international consortium of engineers and scientists
excavated 400,000 tons of rock above the temples, disassembled both temples
and reconstructed them in the same alignment of higher ground, an engineering
achievement almost as awe-inspiring as the feats of the original builders
some 3,000 years earlier (Annex III).
2.05      Abu Simbel attracted some 60,000 visitors in 1977.  Few visitors
stay overnight, partly because of air access problems, but mainly because of
the lack of adequate accommodation. The small hotel of 20 rooms is poorly
managed and in bad repair. Though the majority of tourists will continue
to visit Abu Simbel on day trips, there is a potential demand for over-
night stays which the project is designed to meet.
2.06      The Egyptian Museum contains the world's greatest collection of
ancient Egyptian antiquities and, with the pyramids at Giza, is one of the
two pre-eminent cultural attractions for tourists visiting Cairo. It attracted
560,000 visitors in 1978, of whom 485,000 were foreigners. Though the collec-
tion of treasures in the Museum is outstanding, the way it is displayed and
conserved is seriously deficient. The Museum has been justly described as a
"dusty warehouse" where antiquities are stored rather than displayed.  The



- 11 -
building, though basically sound, is in need of repair, and the more fragile
items in the collection -- wood, fabric, papyri and mummies -- are deterior--
ating through inadequate conservation measures and lack of proper climate
control.  The organization and staffing of the Museum also require strength-
ening and upgrading. Over the years many efforts have been made to upgrade
the Egyptian Museum. These have not been successful. Both EAO and Unesco
now feel that the Bank's participation could help to strengthen the staffin,g
and management of the Museum and establish a sound development program for the
antiquities sector.
B. Project Description
Luxor Infrastructure Facilities
2.07      The infrastructure improvements would serve the expansion of hotel
capacity estimated to be required by 1990 as well as the growing population
of Luxor town (projected at 67,000 in 1990) and of the neighboring east bank
villages (projected at 56,000 in 1990). The population of the town was
47,000 and of the neighboring villages 35,000 in 1976.
2.08      Roads.  The present Luxor airport road (8 km) serves as the main
access road to the town from the region as well as from the airport. The
mixing of fast-moving traffic (cars, buses and trucks) with slow-moving
traffic (horse-drawn carriages, hand carts, bicycles and pedestrians) creates
dangerous traffic conditions and periodic congestion. The project would
provide two separate slow-moving traffic lanes and widen the pavement of the
main road to 7.5 m, thereby upgrading the existing road from a functional
capacity of 500 to 900 passenger car equivalents per hour, which would be
adequate to serve the projected traffic volume until 1990. Six stopping bays
for buses would also be provided.
2.09      Part of the Corniche, overlooking the Nile, would be widened by 6 m,
and the river bank and boat landings would be stabilized. A pedestrian pro-
menade would be provided with landscaped sitting areas, lighting, walkways,
signs and gardens. Intermittent road segments for two lanes of slow-moving
traffic would be provided in front of the main hotels.
2.10      The roads around the railway station square would be modified to
regulate and facilitate traffic movements. Paved parking areas for cars
and taxis would be provided adjacent to the station. Pedestrian crossings,
guardrails, a landscaped median, sidewalks, and lighting would be included.
Similar modest improvements would be provided for Saad Zaghloul Street, Luxor
Temple Square and Karnak Temple road to adapt them to the expected 1990
traffic volumes.
2.11      The west bank road network, serving the main temples and tomb areas,
requires minor improvements such as selected surface treatment, widening,
provision of shoulders and traffic warn:Lng signs especially on the road to
the Valley of the Queens.



- 12 -
2.12      Cruiser Landings and Ferry Docks.  To serve the increased number of
large Nile passenger cruisers, the project would provide potable water, power
and waste disposal at six landings (3 sites) along the Corniche with bollards
for safe mooring. For the smaller cruisers 12 landings (6 sites) would be
provided with similar facilities.
2.13      At present six passenger ferry boats provide service to the west
bank. To meet the projected peak tourist traffic demand in 1990, six 60
passenger ferries would be required; these are expected to be provided by the
private sector. The project would provide tourist ferry docks to serve the
three major hotel concentrations: (i) the Marriott, Winter Palace, Luxor
Hotel group; (ii) ETAP and Savoy Hotels; and (iii) the planned Sheraton Hotel.
A fourth dock serving a large passenger ferry for the local population would
be improved.
2.14      Water Supply:  The existing 50 year old treatment plant with a
rated capacity of 60 liters per second (lps) is grossly overloaded. It is
supplemented by four shallow wells, and the intermittent use of two boreholes
near Karnak Temple where groundwater is polluted.
2.15      Ninety-six percent of 6,800 properties connected to the distribution
network are metered, while over 300 public standpipes and properties with yard
connections are unmetered. Unaccounted-for water is estimated to be in the
order of 40% of total production. The urban domestic daily demand is cur-
rently 100 liters per capita per day and less than half this amount for rural
customers. By 1990 per capita usage is estimated to increase by 60 and 30
percent respectively. Water use by hotels is estimated at 750 liters per
bed which, combined with commercial and institutional demand, accounts
for about 17% of all water use. 'With the anticipated expansion of tourism
this element of water demand will rise to over 30% by 1990. The water demand
forecasts reflect an assumption that the level of unaccounted-for water can be
reduced to 25% by 1985, by metering of water provided through standpipes and
replacements of old distribution pipes.
2.16      The General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW) is currently
constructing a new 200 lps treatment plant adjacent to the existing facility.
The new plant, which will be in operation by mid-1979, uses chemical pretreat-
ment of the raw Nile water followed by rapid gravity filtration and chlorina-
tion. The combined output of the old and the new plants will be sufficient to
meet the projected average daily clemand until 1989.  The introduction of the
new treatment capacity in 1979 should enable removal of the overload on the
existing plant and the discontinuance of unsafe groundwater supplies.
2.17      The water distribution component to be financed under the project
would strengthen the water distribution network by providing a 30 cm diameter
main of 2.9 km to serve the expected hotel demands along the Corniche. Sec-
tions of 20 cm and 15 cm diameter interconnectors would be provided for 1.8
km and 9.7 km respectively as well as 40 new fire hydrants3 3,200 new water
meters, leak detection equipment and an additional 4,000 m of balancing
storage. For improving maintenance operations, five new service vehicles
would be purchased.



- 13 -
2.18      Sewerage.  The Government is presently constructing a new sanitary
sewerage system for Luxor. The contraictor has completed the three pumping
stations; pumping equipment, force mains, the gravity sewer network and sewage
treatment plant have still to be proviLded. The entire system, due to be
completed in 1981, is estimated to cost LE 7.7 million (US$11.0 million) of
which 30% has already been spent or committed. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that adequate funds would be made available to complete that
part of the sewerage system that serves the tourist hotels, no later than
June 30, 1981.
2.19      Solid Waste Collection and Disposal and Environmental Sanitation.
The existing waste collection and disposal system for the town of Luxor is
inadequate. Large quantities of wastet accumulate and decay in the streets.
Thirty-six tons of solid waste are gerLerated per day of which two tons are
from the hotels. By 1990 the volume will increase to 75 tons--48 tons from
the urban population, 9 tons from the hotels and 18 tons from the adjacent
villages. The project would provide 20 collection points, to be served by
donkey carts, and four side-loading lorries which would carry the refuse from
the collection points to the sanitary landfill site adjacent to the sewage
treatment plant on the edge of the desert (7 km from town). The refuse would
be compacted and covered with soil using one medium-sized bulldozer and one
scraper provided under the project. An environmental sanitation program would
also be provided to rid infested areas of the town of rodents, mosquitoes and
flies.
2.20      Electricity Supply and Distribution.  The main electricity supply
for the Luxor area comes from a 33 KV overhead transmission line on the west
bank of the Nile serving an area from Qena (55 km north of Luxor) to El Grira
(50 km south). A 33/11 KV substation on the west bank feeds two distribution
panels on the east bank through a combination of overhead, underground and
underwater 11 KV transmission lines and cables.
2.21      The present peak load, 12 MW, on the east bank is well beyond the
present 8 lMW supply of which the town receives 5, hotels 2 and surrounding
areas 1.  By 1982/83 the peak load is estimated at 20.1 MW.  As the least cost
solution, the project would tap the 132 KV overhead transmission line from
Aswan to Lower Egypt which would be carried from the west bank across the
river to a new substation (132/33/11 KV) on the east bank. The substation
would be equipped initially with one 20 MVA transformer. New 11 KV lines
(10 km) would link the new substation to a new distribution panel on the north
side of the town. Improvements would also be provided to the existing distri-
bution panel south of the town and 70 new transformers (11/0.4 KV at 250 KVA)
and 70 km of 11 KV underground cable would be provided for the urban distribu-
tion network and hotel zone, with additional 11 KV overhead transmission ILines
for the semi-urban and rural areas of the east bank. Street lighting and
mobile equipment would also be provided.  The existing 33/11 KV substation
would be modified to serve only the west bank and possibly the ETAP Hotel.
The distribution system would be designed according to the standards adopted
by the Rural Electrification Authority (REA) in line with the consultant's
recommendations for the Regional Electrification Project (Loan 1453-EGT).



- 14 -
2.22      Telecommunications.  The Luxor public automatic telephone exchange
of the Arab Republic of Egypt Telecommunications Organization (ARETO), provides
600 lines of which 62 lines serve the higher category hotels, and some 500
lines serve the urban population (about 11 lines per thousand persons).  In
addition, there are 788 manual lines which provide unreliable service and will
be phased out in the next 10 years.  There is presently a waiting list for 643
connections.  ARETO has projected a demand of 3,000 to 3,600 lines by 1985;
the higher figure is based on an 8% annual increase which is considered normal
for a town like Luxor.  ARETO is expanding the automatic exchange to 1,000
lines by 1980 and to 2,000 lines by 1981.  The project would provide 1,000
additional lines to meet the minimum demand of 3,000 lines by 1985. The
present exchange building is adequate for the planned expansion. The network
expansion for the urban area would be through underground cables and for the
semi-urban area by overhead lines. The secondary network of underground
cables would be expanded to provide service to the hotel zones.
2.23      Long distance service between Luxor and Cairo is presently very
poor. The existing 36 trunk circuits from Luxor extend only to Qena, where
they connect with the Cairo/Qena coaxial cable. ARETO will extend the coaxial
cable to Luxor in 1979. The project would provide for a 200 circuit automatic
trunk exchange to handle long distance traffic. There are today only 8 telex
subscribers of which 3 are hotels. To meet the projected demand, a new telex
exchange and network would also be provided for 80 subscribers with 24 channels
between Luxor and Cairo.
2.24      For the airport a PABX exchange (80/500 line capacity) would provide
for 300 internal lines expandable to 500 lines; 20 local lines would be ini-
tially provided to the Luxor exchange. For the west bank a radio link to the
Luxor exchange with interface equ.ipment would be provided plus improvements to
the network serving the monuments and tombs.
2.25      Luxor Airport Terminal Building.  The Government is currently
upgrading the Luxor Airport to serve as an international airport. A program
costing LE 5.5 million is scheduled for completion early in 1979. The main
runway has been extended to 3,000 meters (by 45 meters width). Improvements
to the taxiway, new parking aprons, and equipment for instrument landing
systems and night operation are being provided. During daylight hours, the
airport is already served by wide-bodied jets (the Airbus A-300) and by
mid-1979 will be capable of receiving Boeing 747s, DC 10s and Tri-Stars. The
new apron with five fuel points cEn accommodate two wide-bodied and three
smaller aircraft simultaneously.
2.26      The existing terminal buLilding, built in the 1940s, has a capacity
of only 120 passengers per hour and cannot be enlarged efficiently. A new
terminal building with a capacity of 600 passengers in the departure and
arrival lounges would be provided to serve two aircraft--the A-300 and the
B 737--simultaneously. Four aircraft could be served within one hour. This
project component would include thLe construction, furnishing and equipping of
the terminal for both domestic and international flights. The building would
be of modular construction allowing both the arrival and departure areas to



- 15 -
be expanded. Air traffic control and airport administration would be
accommodated in the existing terminal building. The external facilities
would include a new access road, parking, landscaping and infrastructure
(water supply, sewerage and electric power).
Luxor Archaeological Sites
2.27      West Bank Monuments.  To accommodate the increased visitor flow to
the archaeological sites on the west bank, a limited preservation and conso-
lidation program for the monuments has been included in the project. This
would consist of modest improvements at three 46f the main mortuary temples:
those of Ramses III, Ramses II (Rameseum) and Seti I, where paving of the
access road and parking areas, site cleaning and consolidation of walkways
would be provided. Illumination of the temples of Ramses III and Ramses II
would permit night visitation. For the Valley of the Queens and the Tombs
of the Nobles improved parking areas as well as walkways would be provided.
2.28      With the prospective increases in visitor numbers to the Necropolis
at Luxor, damage to the more fragile monuments, particularly the paintings
in the Royal Tombs, is likely to increase. The project would include funds to
help finance protective measures in the seven tombs which receive the greatest
visitor flows and are as a result most vulnerable. In carrying out this work,
to be completed by December 31, 1981, the EAO would consult with experts
recommended by Unesco.
2.29      West Bank Visitor Center. During peak periods visitors form long
waiting lines at the tomb entrances of the Valley of the Kings--the first stop
on many tourist itineraries. The scheduling of visitor flows to the different
monuments and tombs may require a staging area which is proposed to be provided
at a visitor center near the tourist ferry landing. The visitor center may
also provide a historic/cultural orientation to the west bank, an exhibition
hall with models and interpretive material from the tombs and monuments, a
snack bar, first aid post, souvenir shop and telecommunications facilities.
Final decisions on the visitor center would be made after a study of visitor
management on the west bank has been completed (para 2.41 (i)).
2.30      East Bank Monuments.  In addition to the improvements at the en-
trance to Karnak Temple (outside the temple complex), cleansing of the waters
of the sacred lakes would be undertaken.  Since the Nile no longer floods
to clean the lakes, they have become highly saline and, because of odors,
aesthetically offensive to visitors.  The high salinity has caused damage to
the stones of the temple.  A system of small pumps would circulate the Nile
water through the main sacred lake, thereby reducing the salinity to accept-
able levels.
Luxor Tourist Accommodations
2.31      Renovation and Expansion of the Luxor Hotel.  The existing Luxor
Hotel owned by EGOTH is an old, solid structure located on a site facing the
Luxor Temple. Being the oldest large hotel in Luxor, it represents a landmark



- 16 -
deserving preservation. The hotel's 54 bedrooms and 12 suites are distributed
over three floors. Most of the rooms are provided with baths and small indi-
vidual airconditioning units. Over the years the interior of the building
has deteriorated, while furniture, fixtures and equipment have become obsolete.
2.32      This project component would include the renovation of the existing
structure, maintaining its traditional style and details and the construction,
furnishing and equipment of a new wing of bedrooms, an enlarged dining room
and a new kitchen, laundry and staff quarters. The renovated structure and
new wing with a total of 214 guest rooms would be equipped to a 3-star inter-
national hotel standard. All rooms would have private bathrooms and there
would be a central airconditioning/heating system. The new wing has been
designed to allow the hotel to remnain open during construction, and to allow
the guests of the adjacent practice hotel to enjoy the facilities of the
Luxor Hotel.
2.33      Hotel Training School.  This project component would include the
construction, furnishing and equipping of a hotel training school, a practice
hotel, staff housing and student dormitories. The instructional equipment,
fellowships and technical assistance for the school would be provided under
bilateral arrangements with the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ).
EGOTH would implement and operate the facilities.
2.34      The school would have an annual intake of 90 students and a total
capacity of 180 for a two-year program at the intermediate/supervisory level
to meet the needs for kitchen, restaurant, housekeeping and front-office
personnel. Manpower requirements have been projected on the basis that
each new hotel room creates 1.70 hotel jobs of which 0.3 jobs are at an
intermediate/supervisory level. Detailed curricula would be developed during
project implementation with GTZ assistance. In addition to regular courses,
practical workshops and crash-courses would be provided twice a year in
sessions of 2-3 weeks duration to upgrade existing hotel staff in Upper Egypt.
Students would be required to live in the student housing provided as part of
the process of cultural adjustment to the new working environment. Housing
facilities would also be provided for the director, two assistant directors
and six teachers. The "practice hotel" would be designed as an international
3-star tourist hotel, with 65 bedrooms.
2.35      GTZ is expected to finance salaries, travel and other expenses of
four expatriate instructors, each for a minimum of three years. It would also
provide assistance in supervising the installation of the instructional and
kitchen equipment prior to the opening of the school.  The contract is ex-
pected to be signed shortly. Its signing would be a condition of disbursement
for the hotel school component of the project.
2.36      During construction of the school facilities, GTZ would provide
grants for teacher training in Germany to 15 selected Egyptians for a period
of two years. At the end of their training, they would become instructors at
the school. Since the Egyptian private sector and neighboring countries have
attracted most of the more qualif'ied hotel staff and competent teachers,



- 17 -
the conditions for teachers at Luxor must be improved. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that EGOTH would establish the status and levels
of emoluments of hotel school instructors on a basis satisfactory to IDA by
December 31, 1981.
Abu Simbel Facilities
2.37      Infrastructure.  The 5 km Abu Simbel airport access road with a
paving width of 6 m and 1.5 m wide shoulders was built to a low-speed per-
formance standard. Minor improvements to both the cracked paving and unstable
shoulders would be provided and the poorly constructed culvert under the large
land bridge (part of the access road) would be reinforced and the side slopes
stabilized. For telecommunications, 12 local lines would be connected through
a UHF radio link to Wadi Halfa where an existing radio connection provides
service to Aswan.
2.38      Nefertari Guesthouse.  This project component includes the renova-
tion and expansion of the existing 20-room guesthouse, owned by the local
Government council, built on a cliff overlooking Lake Nasser and within
walking distance of the monuments. Forty-four new bedrooms would be provided
and the existing dining room expanded from 80 to 140 seats. The kitchen would
be expanded and the existing public areas and guestrooms refurnished. Air-
conditioning would be added so that the hotel can remain open during the
summer season. External improvements would include landscaping, a service
road, parking, lighting, a walk-way to the boat landing site, a package sewage
treatment plant and power supply.
Egyptian Museum Renovation
2.39      The proposed renovation is erLvisaged as the first stage of a longer-
term program which might extend over ten years. The first stage would be
implemented over a four to five year period, and would consist of essential
repairs to the building, provision of climate control (including aircondition-
ing in selected areas), and improved lighting, display, fire control and
security systems, as well as improved library, conservation, research, admin-
istration and storage facilities. Technical assistance would be provided
to upgrade the organization and staffing of the Museum, and funds would be
included in the project to finance an international committee of experts, who
would be selected by the Egyptian Government in consultation with Unesco and
IDA to review and advise on the proposaLls of the consultants retained to
design and supervise the renovation works (Annex VII).
2.40      In recent years, the garden cf the Museum on the north and east
sides of the building has been reduced to permit the construction of new
streets carrying heavy traffic. The Cairo Governorate proposed to construct
bus lanes along the west side and across the front of the Museum, but has
agreed to divert this bus traffic away from the Museum. Assurances were
obtained that further encroachments on the Museum site would not be allowed
and that pedestrian and vehicular access to the Museum would be preserved.



- 18 -
Technical Assistance and Studies
2.41      The project would include funds to finance:
(i)  a study of visitor management on the west bank of the Nile
at Luxor. Already serious congestion develops in the peak
tourist season at several tombs in the Valley of the Kings.
With the prospective increases in visitor numbers this
problem will be aggravated unless the existing organization
of visitor tours is modified. The study would make recom-
mendations on necessary investments, pricing policies, the
the organization of visitor flows, and on means to ensure
that the west bank population continues to benefit from
serving tourists.
(ii) a study of the organization and operation of the water,
sewerage and solid waste disposal services in Luxor. The
investment in these utilities will be of sufficient magni-
tude to require a much stronger organization than presently
exists to operate and maintain them efficiently. The study
would recommend a managemnent structure and appropriate staff-
ing, analyze financial projections and recommend appropriate
tariffs for water, sewerage and solid waste disposal services,
as well as charges or taxes to achieve cost recovery of other
investments in tourism facilities for which the Luxor Munici-
pality is responsible. Technical assistance would be provided
to assist the City of Luxor to set up an appropriate organi-
zation and to establish billing and accounting systems. 1/
(iii) a study of airport chargeas needed to secure cost recovery of
investments in civil aviation facilities serving domestic as
well as international flights. Important benefits of the
Luxor air terminal and Abu Simbel components of the project
would consist of savings in aircraft operating costs, which
the Government should be able to recover through direct user
charges.
(iv) a study of the impact of price controls on hotels and of
means to reduce hotel investment costs. This study would
evaluate price prospects, returns on hotel investment, and
the need for price controls, as well as identify means to
reduce investment costs through, for example, changes in
equipment and design standards to serve particular cate-
gories of clientele, adoption of new construction tech-
niques, and revised contracting procedures.
1/   This study should take into account the conclusions of the IDA-financed
"Management Study of Water Supply" and the AID-financed "Management and
Tariff Study of Six Cities", both of which are now in progress.



- 19 -
(v)  technical assistance for the Egyptian Museum to prepare a
long-term development program, including assistance in the
fields of museology, egyptology, display, cataloguing and
documentation, conservation, reproduction and sales.
Recommendations on appropriate staffing and salary levels
for the Museum staff would also be included.
(vi)  technical assistance for strengthening planning procedures
in the EAO and for the formulation of a 5-year program for
development of museums, antiquities sites, and sound and
light projects.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the study under (i) would be
completed within one year of Credit effectiveness, and that the studies uncler
(ii), (iii), (iv) and (vi) would be completed not later than 18 months after
Credit effectiveness. Technical assistance for the Egyptian Museum would be
concentrated in the first year of project execution but would continue on EL
reduced scale during the remainder of the implementation period.
TII. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$59.0 million
equivalent, including US$3.1 million equivalent of taxes and duties. The
estirnated costs and foreign exchange components of the various categories of
expenditures are given in Annex II, Table 1, and are summarized in Tables 2
and 3.
3.02      Estimated costs for civil works are based on unit prices derived
from current contracts and detailed estimates of other projects of similar
character. They have been adjusted for regional cost differences in Luxor
and Abu Simbel. Preliminary engineering for almost all project components
has been prepared within 15% approximation in costs, except for the buildings,
for which the approximation is 10%. Equipment and furniture cost estimates
are based on current c.i.f. unit prices and have been adjusted upward to
include local transportation and installation costs. Technical assistance for
the project has been estimated at about US$6,000 equivalent per month, on the
basis of prevailing international costs of expatriate specialists. The cost
of professional services for final design and supervision, using mainly local
consultants, has been estimated to average $3,400 per manmonth.



- 20 -
Table 2:  ESTIMATED COST PER PROJECT COMPONENT
% of
Total   % of
LE (millions)            US$ (millions)         Base   Foreign
Component                      Local Foreign Total        Local Foreign Total   Cost   Exchange
1. Luxor infrastructure        4.42   7.99   12.41        6.31   11.42  17.73    44          64
a. Roads                    0.73   0.49    1.22        1.05    0.69   1.74       4        40
b. Ferry landings          0.20   0.17    0.37        0.29    0.24   0.53        1        44
c. Water distribution    0.27   0.41    0.68          0.39    0.58   0.97        3        60
d. Solid waste disposal  0.07   0.23    0.30          0.09    0.34   0.43        2        78
e. Electric power           1.44   3.81    5.25       2.05    5.45   7.50    18           73
f. Telecommunications    0.64   1.63    2.27          0.91     2.33   3.24       8        72
g. Airport terminal bldg.1.07   1.25    2.32           1.53    1.79   3.32       8        54
2. Archaeological sites        0.51   0.64    1.15        0.73    0.91   1.64       4        56
a. Monument works          0.16   0.30    0.46        0.24    0.42   0.66        2        65
b. Visitor center          0.35   0.34    0.69        0.49    0.49   0.98        2        50
3. Luxor accommodation         3.97   4.21    8.18        5.68    6.01  11.69    29          51
a. Luxor Hotel              2.50   2.91     5.41      3.57    4.15   7.72    19           54
b. Hotel training school 1.47   1.30    2.77          2.11     1.86   3.97    10          47
4. Abu Simbel facilities    0.74   0.76    1.50           1.05    1.09   2.14       5        51
a. Infrastructure           0.33   0.33    0.66       0.47    0.48   0.95        2        50
b. Guesthouse              0.41   0.43    0.84        0.58    0.61   1.19        3        52
5. Egyptian Museum             0.99   2.13    3.12        1.42    3.04   4.46    11          68
6. Technical assistance        0.25   1.25    1.50        0.35    1.80   2.15       5        83
to EAO                      0.13   0.79    0.92       0.18    1.13   1.31        3        86
to MTCA                    0.07   0.28    0.35        0.10    0.41   0.51        1        80
to the City of Luxor       0.03   0.13    0.16        0.05    0.18   0.23        1        80
to ECAO                     0.02   0.05    0.07       0.02    0.08   0.10                 80
7. Project administration   0.55   0.08    0.63           0.79    0.11   0.90       2        12
Total base cost            11.43  17.06   28.49    16.34   24.37  40.71    100            60
Contingencies:
Physical (11.8%)         1.31   2.06    3.37        1.87    2.94   4.81
Price (33.1%)            5.81   3.63    9.44        8.29    5.19  13.48
Subtotal                 7.12   5.69   12.81       10.16    8.13  18.29                 44
TOTAL PROJECT COST         18.55  22.75   41.30    26.50   32.50  59.00                   55
(including taxes
and duties)



- 21 -
Table 3: ESTIMATED COST' BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
% of
LE (millions)            US$ (millions)      Total
Category                      Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total B,ase Cost
1. Civil works
a. Luxor infrastructure   2.75   2.25    5.00         3.93   3.21   7.14        18
b. Archaeological sites   0.35   0.32    0.67         0.50   0.46   0.96         2
c. Luxor accommodation    2.58   1.66    4.24         3.69   2.37   6.06       15
d. Abu Simbel facilities  0.54   0.:36    0.90        0.76   0.52   1.28        3
e. Egyptian Museum          0.63   1.13    1.76       0.91   1.61   2.52        6
Subtotal (1)             6.85   5.72   12.57       9.79   8.17  17.96       44
2. Furniture & fixtures        0.46   0.'92    1.38      0.66   1.31   1.97         5
3. Equipment                   1.72   8.45   10.17       2.46  12.07  14.53        36
4. Professional services       1.44   0.64    2.08       2.05   0.92   2.97         7
Subtotal (1 to 4)       10.47  15.73   26.20    14.96  22.47  37.43         92
5. Technical assistance        0.25   1.25    1.50       0.36   1.79   2.15         5
6. Project administration    0.55   0.08    0.63         0.79   0.11   0.90         2
7. Land acquisition            0.16      -      0.16     0.23    -       0.23       1
Total base cost (1 to 7) 11.43  17.06   28.49    16.34  24.37  40.71    100
8. Contingencies:
Physical                  1.31   2.06    3.37       1.87   2.94   4.81
Price                     5.81   3.63    9.44       8.29   5.19  13.48
Subtotal (8)              7.12   5.69   12.81    10.16   8.13  18.29
PROJECT COST
(Total 1 to 8)                18.55  22.75   41.30    26.50  32.50  59.00
Customs Duties and Taxes
3.03      In accordance with the norma,l practice of the Government, all
items specifically imported for Government projects would be exempt from
customs duties and taxes, as would the remunerations of the foreign technical-
assistance specialists. It is expected that the bulk of the building materials
to be used in construction work and some equipment and furniture would be
purchased in the local market. Part of such purchases would be subject to
customs duties and/or taxes, which have been estimated at US$3.1 million
equivalent.



- 22 -
Contingency Allowances
3.04      For physical increases, 15% has been added to the base cost of civil
works and equipment of infrastructure components, and 10% to the base cost of
construction, furniture, fixtures and equipment of buildings. Estimated price
increases have been calculated according to the implementation schedules
shown in Annex II, Tables 3 and 4. Price increases in Egypt have been com-
paratively high between 1975-77, when prices of civil works rose about 1.5%
per month, mainly because of wage increases. A gradual deceleration of this
trend is expected. In view of the differences in prevailing local and inter-
national inflation rates, price contingencies for civil works, building mate-
rials, furniture and fixtures, and equipment have been estimated separately
for local and foreign costs. Total contingencies represent 45% of the esti-
mated base cost, with 12% representing physical increases and 33% price
increases (Annex II, Table 2).
Foreign Exchange Component
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange component is US$32.5 million equiva-
lent or 55% of the total project cost. The calculation of the foreign exchange
component is based on the assumptions that (i) most civil works and related
professional services would be awarded to local firms; (ii) all equipment
would be directly imported; and (iii) about 40% of the contracts for furni-
ture and fixtures would be awarded to foreign suppliers. The resulting
foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is as follows:
(i) civil works, 40%; (ii) furniture and fixtures, 61%; (iii) equipment,
80%; (iv) professional services, 27%; (v) technical assistance, 81%; and
(vi) project administration, 12%.,
B. Financial Plan
3.06      The proposed IDA Credit of US$32.5 million would finance 100% of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The balance of the financing
would be provided by the Government, which would make its own contribution and
the proceeds of the IDA Credit available through the Ministry of Tourism to
the agencies responsible for implementing the various elements of the Luxor
and Abu Simbel project components. The Government's contribution for the
Egyptian Museum renovation would be made available from the FFAMSLP of the
Ministry of Education, Culture and Scientific Research.
3.07      The total Government contribution would be US$26.5 million equiva-
lent or US$23.4 million equivalent excluding taxes and duties, spread over a
period of five and one half years, with a maximum contribution of about US$7.5
million equivalent in any one year. Assurances were obtained that adequate
budgetary provisions would be made to ensure the timely implementation of the
Luxor and Abu Simbel components of the project on which the Government would
meet cost overruns.  Assurances were also obtained that adequate resources
would be made available from the FFAMSLP to ensure the timely completion of
the renovation of the Egyptian Museum.



- 23 -
3.08      The share of the IDA Credit to be used to finance electric power,
telecommunications, water supply and solid waste disposal, the Luxor Hotel and
the Nefertari guesthouse would be on-lent by the Government to the agencies
owning these assets. The on-lending for the utilities--electricity, telecom-
munications, water supply and solid waste disposal--would be for 20 years with
four years grace at a rate of interest equal to the current interest rate on
World Bank loans at the date of signing. The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by EEA, ARETO and the City of Luxor. This would be consistent with
the terms in earlier Bank/IDA financing of such utilities in Egypt. The
on-lending for the two hotels would be on terms consistent with the terms
available from other sources for hotel financing in Egypt. These are presently
fifteen years with three years grace at a rate of interest of not less than
10%. The risk of changes in the exchange rate between the US$ and the Egyptian
LE would be borne by EGOTH and the Misr Aswan Tourism Company (which would own
the Nefertari guesthouse), but the risk of changes in exchange rates with
other currencies by the Government. This would be consistent with practices
of Bank-financed DFC projects in Egypt. The remaining IDA funds would be
provided by the Government together with budgetary funds to the implementing
agencies on a non-repayable basis. Execution of the subsidiary loan agree-
ments between the borrower and the City of Luxor, EEA, ARETO, EGOTH, EAO,
ECAO, RWWA and the Misr Aswan Tourism Company would be a condition of
effectiveness.
IV. PROJECT EXECUTION AND OPERATION
A. Project Execution
Project Implementation
4.01      The project would be implemented in about five years after effec-
tiveness (Annex II, Tables 3 and 4) including six months for completion of
payments and withdrawals of the Credit proceeds. The expected completion date
is December 1984.  Table 4 lists the agencies involved in the implementation,
maintenance and operation of the different project components.



- 24 -
Table 4: AGENCIES INVOLVED IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Responsibility for:
Construction or   Operation and
Project Component                                 Implementation       Maintenance
1. Luxor infrastructure facilities
a. Airport road                                      RWWA              C of L
b. Luxor roads                                      RWWA               C of L
c. Ferry landings                                    RWWA              C of L
d. Water distribution                                GOPW              C of L
e. Solid waste disposal                             C of L             C of L
f. Electric power                                EEA and REA            EEA
g. Telecommunications                                ARETO              ARETO
h. Airport terminal building                         ECAO               ECAO
2. Luxor archaeological sites
a. Monuments                                      MTCA/EAO              EAO
b. Visitor center                                   MTCA                MTCA
3. Luxor accommodation
a. Luxor Hotel                                      EGOTH          EGOTH/HOTEL CO.
b. Hotel training school                             EGOTH              EGOTH
4. Abu Simbel facilities
a. Road                                              RWWA              G of A
b. Telecommunications                               ARETO              ARETO
c. Nefertari guesthouse                             MATCO              HOTEL CO.
5. Egyptian Museum                                      EAO               EAO
6. Technical assistance and studies
a. West bank visitor management                   MTCA and EAO            -
b. Luxor water and sanitation                        C of L
(organization and charges")
c. Airport charges                                  ECAO
d. Hotel tariffs and investment costs               MTCA
e. Egyptian Museum and EAO                          EAO
4.02      Because the proposed project is complex and consists of a number of
components, a Project Unit would be established in the Ministry of Tourism and
Civil Aviation that would be responsible for coordinating the implementation
of all project components, with the exception of the museum renovation com-
ponent which would be the responsibility of the Egyptian Antiquities Organi-
zation. While the Unit in the Mlnistry of Tourism would coordinate and
supervise, the implementation of different elements of the project would be
the responsibility of appropriate government agencies. The Project Unit would
report to an Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee on which the agencies



- 25 -
responsible for project implementation as listed in Table 4 would be repre-
sented. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Unit would
draw up, in consultation with the different implementing agencies, a detailed
implementation schedule for each compon,ent of the project. The Unit would
then follow up with the implementing agencies the progress of each project
component and report on a regular basis to the Coordinating Committee. It
would also be responsible for compiling progress reports on the Luxor and Abu
Simbel project components to be submitted to IDA. The Project Unit would
comprise a director, an assistant director, engineers, an architect, a pro-
curement officer, an accountant, and adequate supporting staff. Assurances
were obtained that the job qualifications and descriptions for the director,
assistant director and procurement officer would be satisfactory to IDA.
The establishment of the Unit and the appointment of the director, assistant
director and procurement officer would be conditions of effectiveness.
4.03      Responsibility for implementation of the renovation of the Egyptian
Museum would be that of the Ministry of' Education, Culture and Scientific
Research (MECSR) through the Egyptian Antiquities Organization. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the EAO would establish an Imple-
mentation Unit, headed by a qualified project manager, to supervise the
execution of this project component.  The job qualifications and description
for the project manager would be acceptable to IDA. The staff of the Unit
would include a senior architect and a procurement officer. The Unit would be
responsible for preparing a detailed iraplementation schedule for this projlect
component and for submitting progress reports to IDA. The establishment of
this Unit would be a condition of effectiveness.
Design and Supervision of Construction
4.04      Consultants would be employed for the design, preparation of tender
documents and supervision of construction of project roads, landings and
docks, water distribution system, electric power, telecommunications, the
Luxor airport terminal building, the wesst bank visitor center, the guesthouse
at Abu Simbel and the Egyptian Museum. In total, consulting services for
final design and supervision would amount to 860 manmonths. EGOTH would be
responsible for the preparation of final design and tender documents and the
supervision of construction of the Luxor Hotel and the hotel training school.
Advice from competent hotel management consultants would be required during
the design stage of the renovation of the Luxor Hotel and qualified consu:Ltants
would be appointed not later than December 31, 1979. EGOTH and the consu:Ltants
would also prepare detailed lists and specifications of furniture, fixtures
and equipment as well as maintenance manuals for all buildings included in the
project. Consultants to be employed for the work on the Egyptian Museum would
be acceptable to IDA after consultatioa with Unesco.
Procurement
4.05      Contracts for civil works, furniture, fixtures, building materials
and equipment amount to a total value estimated at about US$50.0 million
equivalent, of which US$43.0 million equivalent would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA guide-
lines for procurement. Civil works contracts costing less than US$500,000
equivalent each (up to US$4.5 million in total), and furniture, fixtures,



- 26 -
materials and equipment contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each
(up to US$2.5 million in total) would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with Government procurement
procedures, satisfactory to the Association. For the purpose of comparing
foreign and local bids under international competitive bidding, local manufac-
turers of equipment, materials, furniture and fixtures would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable
to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
4.06      Because of problems of accessibility and location of archaeological
sites, civil works for minor road improvements, parking areas and landscaping
around the monuments at Luxor may be carried out by force account by the Roads
and Waterways Authority and/or the Egyptian Antiquities Organization. Their
total cost is expected not to exceed US$250,000 equivalent. Telephone switch-
ing equipment procured under the project would have to be compatible with that
presently used in Luxor and Abu Simbel. It is therefore proposed that ARETO
negotiate the purchase with the suppliers of such equipment. Prices so
negotiated would be subject to approval by the Association. The amount
involved would be US$0.5 million equivalent, or 1% of the total cost of the
project.
Disbursement
4.07      The disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit would be made on
the following basis:
(i) 40% of expenditures for civil works for all project
components, excluding the Museum;
(ii) 60% of expenditures for civil works of the Museum;
(iii)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment,
building materials, furniture and fixtures, including
project administration, or ex-factory cost of such items
manufactured in Egypt, and 70% of local expenditures for
off-the-shelf items;
(iv)  15% of professional services for all project components,
excluding the terminal building of Luxor airport and
the Museum; and
(v) 80% of technical assistance, fellowships and professional
services for the terminal building of Luxor airport and
the Museum.
A schedule of estimated disbursements of the Credit is shown in Annex II,
Table 5.



- 27 -
B. Operation and Management
4.08      Table 4 shows the organizations which would be responsible for
operating and maintaining the facilities to be provided under the project.
The ECAO, ARETO and EEA are established organizations which are already
operating and maintaining comparable facilities elsewhere in Egypt. Covenants
relating to tariffs and management under the Bank's earlier loan and credits
to EEA for electric power (Loan No. 1453-EGT) and to ARETO for telecommunica-
tions (Credit No. 774-EGT) would be applicable to the facilities to be pro-
vided at Luxor under the proposed project.
4.09      Responsibility for operating and maintaining the new water supply,
sewerage and solid waste disposal systems as well as for maintaining the
Corniche and other roads and streets in Luxor rests with the city under the
overall supervision of the Governorate of Qena. While the old water supply
system (within the limits of its capacity) and certain other services in Luxor
have been operated quite well in the past, the greatly expanded water supply
system and the new sewerage and solid waste disposal systems will require a
much stronger organization than presently exists for adequate maintenance and
efficient operation in the future. Assurances were obtained that an organi-
zation (the Water and Sanitation Department) would be set up by June 30, 1981
within the city government to operate and maintain water supply and sewerage,
solid waste disposal, and street cleaning services and to be responsible for
maintenance of the gardens of the Corniche. Agreement was also reached that
the new Department would be authorized to establish its own account, to bill
consumers for services provided, to collect revenues and retain such revenues
to meet expenses of operation and maintenance. Technical assistance and
studies would be financed under the Credit to assist the municipality to
organize the Department, to establish billing procedures and a system of
commercial accounts, and to recommend appropriate tariffs and charges for
services. Assurances were obtained that the job qualifications and descrip-
tions for the head of the new Department, the chief engineer, and the chief
accounting officer would be satisfactory to IDA.
4.10      The management of the present Luxor Hotel and of the Nefertari
guesthouse by the Egyptian Company of Hotels is below the standard which most
western tourists visiting Egypt would expect. Agreement was reached that the
renovated Luxor Hotel and Nefertari guesthouse would be managed by qualifiied,
experienced and competent management and that hotel management consultants,
satisfactory to IDA, would be employed by December 31, 1979 to provide tech-
nical assistance to strengthen management systems and operating procedures of
both hotels.
4.11      EGOTH is operating satisfactorily the hotel school in Alexandria
with French technical assistance, and is qualified to operate the proposed
hotel school and the associated practice hotel in Luxor with German technical
assistance. Agreement was reached that the job qualifications and descripition
for the director of the hotel school in Luxor would be satisfactory to IDA.



- 28 -
4.12      The management of the Egyptian Museum has not had the authority, re-
sources or continuity in the past to enable the Museum to operate effectively.
The technical assistance to be provided by consultants under the project would
include a review of and recommendations on the Museum's organizational struc-
ture, administrative procedures, budgeting and accounting procedures, staffing
needs, and wage and salary levels of Museum staff. The details of such recom-
mendations cannot be prejudged. Nevertheless, the need for certain basic
organizational changes is clear. Hence, assurances were obtained that (i) the
Museum administration would be given full authority over museum operations and
staffing, subject to supervision by the Board of Directors of EAO; (ii) that
the Museum would be headed at all times by a duly qualified and experienced
Director; (iii) the staff of the Museum would be adequately increased; and
(iv) the emoluments of Museum staff would be set at levels necessary to secure
and motivate staff of the required caliber. Assurances were also obtained
that the recommendations of the consultants referred to above would be reviewed
by the Government, the international committee referred to in para. 2.39,
Unesco and IDA and agreed recommendations would be implemented.
4.13      As the resources accruing from visitor entry fees, donations and
the proceeds of foreign exhibitions increase, providing the resources for
much larger development expenditures in the antiquities sector than have been
possible in the past, 1/ the need for strengthening the planning and budgetary
unit in the EAO becomes urgent.  Assurances were obtained that (i) the planning
and budget unit, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, would be main-
tained within the EAO; (ii) this unit would, with the assistance proposed
under 2.41 (vi) above, prepare the annual budget of the EAO, estimate annual
revenues of the FFAMSLP over five years and formulate a 5-year program for
development of the antiquities sector; (iii) such program, as approved by the
Board of Directors of the EAO, would form the basis for annual appropriations
for the development of the sector, and for use of funds from the FFAMSLP; (iv)
the unit would be responsible for checking progress of implementation of the
program, and for revising and extending the program each year.
V. MARKET PROSPECTS
A.  Proiected Visitor Arrivals
5.01      The most important capacity constraints, which have hampered the
growth of tourism in the past, will be alleviated in the next several years,
with the major hotel construction program currently underway in Cairo. Hence
the basis will exist for expanding the flow of visitors to Egypt, including
the numbers of "cultural" tourists. The size of the present cultural tourism
flow to Egypt is not known, but thie number of foreign visitors to Luxor may
1/   Large expenditures have been incurred to save the temples of Abu Simbel
and Philae, but these have be,en special projects, and the subject of
international appeals.



- 29 -
be taken as a minimum estimate. In 1977, these are estimated at 183,000, about
35% of all non-Arab visitors to Egypt in that year. 1/ There can be little
doubt that the market for cultural tourism to Egypt is much larger, and, given
the necessary degree of political stability in the region and the planned
build-up of accommodation and transport capacities, cultural tourism will
expand substantially in the future. In the longer term it may be that the
growth of cultural tourism to Egypt will be limited more by the capacity
constraints of the country's principal cultural sites than by market limita-
tions. Such constraints are already evident at the Valley of the Kings
in Luxor, but they are also likely to become increasingly important at other
sites, such as Abu Simbel and Philae. The growth of the other major segments
of Egypt's tourism market--business tourism, beach tourism and Arab tourism to
the major cities of Cairo and Alexandria--is not in the longer term similarly
constrained.
5.02      In the visitor projections of Table 5 a relatively rapid growth
in visitor numbers is forecast for the next two to three years as the most
acute capacity constraints particularly in Cairo are alleviated. After this
pent-up demand is satisfied, the growth rate is expected to decline.
B. Visitors to Luxor
5.03      Of the estimated 183,000 tourists to Luxor in 1977, about 99% were
foreigners and about 70% of them stayedi in one of the four higher category
hotels.  Of the others, about 10% found accommodation in one of the 27 lower
category hotels; 11% stayed in cruisers and the remainder were day visitors
(Annex I, Table 10).
5.04      The numbers of tourists visiting Luxor are projected to grow faster
than visitors to Egypt as a whole because of Luxor's basic attractions,
because of investments that would make it more accessible, and because of the
planned increase in accommodation. About 514,000 visitors are projected t:o
visit Luxor in 1985 and 646,000 in 1990. The capacity required to accommodate
these larger tourism flows is estimated at 2,180 rooms in higher category and
1,020 rooms in lower category hotels by 1990 while approximately 500 rooms
would be provided on Nile cruisers.  This compares with 690 rooms in higher
category and 440 rooms in lower category hotels and about 140 rooms on Nile
cruisers in 1977. The projections of visitor flows to and accommodation
capacity in Luxor are summarized in Annex IV, Table 3.
1/   The number of visitors to the Egylptian Museum paying the full entry fee
(485,000 in 1978) indicates more cultural tourists, but this figure
includes "repeat visitors" to the Museum, business visitors to Cairo,
as well as foreigners resident in Egypt.



- 30 -
Table 5: ESTIMATED NUMBER OF TOURIST ARRIVALS TO EGYPT BY ORIGIN
('000)
Growth            Growth             Growth
1977     per year  1981   per year  1985   per year  1990
(base year)    (%)                 (%)                (%)
W. Europe (vacation)       219          17      410       9        579        5       739
(business)       94         10       138       5        168        4       204
USA, Canada
Australia,     (vac.)       85          18      165      10        242        5       309
Japan          (bus.)       36          10        53      5         64        4        78
Socialist countries         31           4       36       5         44        6        59
Arabs                      475           7      623       5        757        3       878
Others                      64          10        94      6        119        5       152
Total                    1,004          11     1,519      7      1,973        4    2,419
Although there is some difference in the composition of visitors, these pro-
jections are similar to those in two separate studies recently undertaken in
Egypt, which project total visitor arrivals of 2.2 to 2.5 million by 1990. 1/
1/   a) UNDP, Tourism Development in the Suez Canal Zone, 1978 and
b) Steigenberger Consulting Ltd., National Plan for Tourism, Arab
Republic of Egypt, 1978.
5.05      In the projections, hotels are expected to reach their full develop-
ment occupancy rates after three years of operation. The peak month occupancy
rate is expected to average 95%. However, seasonal visitor flows reduce this
to a yearly average room occupancy of 70% at full development for the higher
category hotels. It is not expected that visitors will increase their length
of stay in Luxor. The places of interest are in relatively close proximity
and the average tourist can satisfy his interests in a two to three day visit.
C. Visitors to the Egyptian Museum
5.06      The number of foreign visitors (including repeat visitors) to the
Egyptian Museum in the past two years has equalled approximately 40% of all
foreign visitors to Egypt. The projections in Table 5 indicate an increasing



- 31 -
share of European, North American, Australian and Japanese vacation visitors
among all visitors in the next twelve years. On this basis, it is reasonable
to assume a rising ratio of visitors to the Museum as a proportion of all
foreign visitors to Egypt. Were the irmprovements in the Museum to be made,
as envisaged in the proposed project, a further increment in Museum visitors
may be assumed. Hence, the numbers of foreign visitors to the Museum are
projected as follows: 700,000 in 1981; 1.0 million in 1985; and 1.25 million
in 1990. Residents paying the standard entry fee are forecast to rise to
90,000, 130,000, and 160,000 in the sarae three years respectively.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Financial Objectives
6.01      The overall financial objective for the project is the recovery
directly or indirectly of those investrnents which are made for the benefit: of
tourists plus a reasonable rate of return. Many project components also serve
the local population and some subsidization of the local population by the
tourists is warranted. Proposed tariff structures for several services are
designed to achieve this, e.g., the tariffs proposed for water and sewerage
services in Luxor.
6.02      The electric power and telecommunications components of the project
will be minor parts of large national systems where national tariff structures
apply. These national tariffs are to be set to achieve financial objectives
defined in covenants under an earlier ]3ank power loan and two IDA credits for
telecommunications, and it has been assumed that the charges to be made will
provide for cost recovery in respect of these services. Accordingly, no
separate financial evaluation of these project components has been made.
6.03      Although it would be possible on certain assumptions to make a
financial evaluation of the Luxor airport terminal, the terminal is part of a
much larger investment in the expansion of the Luxor airport and a financ:Lal
evaluation of the terminal building would have limited meaning. By law,
Egyptair is exempt from paying landing charges at any airport in Egypt and
revenues of all domestic airports are consequently small. The benefits from
the investment in the new terminal building at Luxor will accrue to tourists
who will avoid the serious congestion and delays which continued use of the
existing terminal building would bring and to Egyptair which will reap large
cost savings from the quicker turn-aroand time of its aircraft at Luxor. The
cost savings to Egyptair alone are estimated to yield a return of 12% on the
investment in the new terminal. Additional direct revenues will be obtained
from rents and landing charges paid by foreign airlines whose aircraft land at
Luxor. Such revenues are, however, likely to be small and are difficult to
predict at this time. It is possible that the benefits accruing to Egyptair
from cost savings at Luxor might be passed on to the tourist in lower fares.
Whether or not this is so, the policy by which Egyptair is exempted from



- 32 -
landing charges in Egypt appears, prima facie, to provide an indirect subsidy
to the foreign tourist. Hence, agreement was reached that the Government
would examine this policy under the study referred to in para. 2.41 (iii), and
would implement those recommendations, acceptable to the Government and IDA,
relating to the recovery of the investment and operating costs of domestic
airports which are attributable to civil aviation.
6.04      The recovery of the proposed investment in road and street improve-
ments, the docks and the Corniche would form part of the broader study of
utility charges in Luxor referred to in paras. 2.41 (ii). Assurances were
obtained that the Government would examine, in consultation with IDA, what
charges or taxes would be required to achieve the financial objective stated
in para. 6.01 with a view to levying such charges or taxes not later than
December 31, 1984.
6.05      The recovery of the proposed investment in the renovation of the
Egyptian Museum could be achieved by increasing visitor entry fees and charges
made for concessions, and from increased sales of better quality reproductions.
The required increase in the visitor entry fee would be readily affordable.
Revenues from the Museum are presently paid into the Fund for Financing
Antiquities, Museums and Sound and Light Projects, while operating expenses
are met mainly from EAO's budget. While the excess of revenues over expendi-
tures is large, in the past the Musesum has not been given the resources for
an adequate standard of service or even minimum maintenance. The improvements
in Museum services envisaged under the project would require a substantial
increase in operating costs. These could also be recovered from increased
visitor entry fees and other revenues. Improved budgetary procedures would
also be necessary, and assurances were obtained that a budget covering
projected revenues and providing adequate amounts to meet costs of operation,
maintenance and development would be prepared annually, for approval by the
Board of Directors of the EAO, and that revenues of the Museum from all
sources would be used to meet expenses of operation, maintenance and develop-
ment, up to the limits approved in the museum's annual budget.
B. FinarLcial Forecasts
6.06      Financial forecasts have been prepared for the Luxor Hotel and the
practice hotel in Luxor, the Nefertari guesthouse and the water and solid
waste disposal systems in Luxor. Financial forecasts have also been prepared
for the new sewerage system in Luxor, although this is not being financed
under the proposed Credit.
Luxor and Abu Simbel Hotel Accommodation
6.07      Operating projections for the Luxor Hotel and the Nefertari guest-
house, made in 1978 prices, indicate that incremental facilities to be
provided would achieve internal rates of return on investment of 10.3% for



- 33 -
the Luxor Hotel and 12.7% for the Nefertari guesthouse.  The financial returns
to EGOTH from both hotel projects, calculated at current prices would yield
sufficient funds to cover EGOTH's debt service obligations on these projects.
6.08      The existing Luxor Hotel and Nefertari guesthouse are expected to
continue to operate during construction of the new accommodation facilities.
After the new facilities are completed and opened, the old facilities will be
renovated. Hence, the Luxor Hotel and Nefertari guesthouse are expected to
generate income during the project implementation period and the operating
projections during this period are also included in the financial forecasts
(Annex V, Table 1-6). Gross operating profits for the Luxor Hotel are
expected to rise from 33% of sales in 1983 to 38% of sales from 1985 onwards.
For the Nefertari guesthouse, the gross operating profit is estimated to rise
from 32% of sales in 1982 to 38% from 1986 onwards.
6.09      For the financial forecasts, the management fee has been calculated
on the following assumptions: 3% of total net sales (after sales tax and
discounts), and 7% of profits after depreciation and before interest. While
these assumptions may prove optimistic, a somewhat higher management fee would
not impair EGOTH's ability to service its debts.
6.10      Table 6 shows a summary of the financial results and the effects
of changes in project costs and operatirLg conditions on the profitability of
hotel operations.
Table 6: FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (DCF) BEFORE INCOME TAXES
(Percent)
Luxor Hotel    Nefertari Guesthouse
Base Case                                          10.3                 12.7
Room Occupancy
+ 5%                                          11.3                 13.0
- 5%                                           8.9                11.2
Room Rates and Prices
+ 10%                                         11.0                 13.4
- 10%                                          9.2                 12.1
Gross Operating Profit
+ 5%                                          11.2                 15.1
- 5%                                           9.0                10.1
Investment Costs
- 10%                                         12.4                 14.5
+ 10%                                          8.5                 11.1



- 34 -
6.11      As the accounting systems presently employed by the Luxor Hotel
and the Nefertari guesthouse are inadequate to show clear financial results,
assurances were obtained that EGOTH and MATCO would establishi appropriace
commercial accounts, acceptable to IDA, for the Luxor Hotel and Nefertari
guesthouse operations. The financial records would be maintained according to
generally accepted accounting principles, and audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Assurances were also obtained that the audited
financial statements would be submitted to IDA within six months after the end
of each fiscal year of operation.
Luxor Hotel Training School and Practice Hotel
6.12      Costs of operation of the hotel training school would be covered
in full by EGOTH. Board and lodging for full-time students would be provided
by EGOTH and tuition fees would not be charged. Students would receive a
monthly allowance during their training in the school and wages for their work
in the practice hotel. Wages of students on refresher or upgrading courses
would be paid by employers.
6.13      The financial forecasts for the practice hotel indicate that it
would earn a gross operating profit of 44% of gross sales in 1983, the
first year of operation, and 46% of gross sales in 1985 (Annex V, Table 7).
High operating profits reflect the relatively low payroll costs for workers
(students) in the hotel. Assurances were obtained that in the unlikely
event that the practice hotel incurs an operating loss, EGOTH would provide
funds to cover the shortfall. Any surpluses from the hotel would accrue to
EGOTH. Assurances were also obtained that EGOTH would establish an appropriate
accounting system for the operation of the school and the practice hotel, and
that annual financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA would be submitted within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Water Supply, Sewerage and Solid Waste Disposal
6.14      The financial objective for the utility operations of the City of
Luxor would be to establish economic charges for water, sewerage and solid
waste disposal services for all classes of consumers having due regard to
ability to pay. The Government has so far invested approximately LE 2 million
in the new water supply system of Luxor. The remaining capital requirement
for the water project, including interest during construction, is estimated at
LE 1.02 million, of which 65% would be provided from the proposed Credit and
the remainder from the Government's equity contribution. The City would repay
to the Government its share of the proceeds of the Credit over 20 years with
three years grace at 8% interest per annum. 1/ Forecasts for the water supply
operations show that adequate internal funds would be generated to provide
debt service coverage of 1.5 in 1983, increasing to 4.3 in 1988 (Annex V,
Tables 11-13).
1/   8% has been assumed in the projections, though the actual rate would
depend upon the rate of interest on Bank loans at the time the Credit
is signed.



- 35 -
6.15      The forecasts are based on the application of differential water and
sewerage charges which places the burden on hotels and other commercial users
rather than local residents. The water charges for risidential users are
projected to rimain at their current lsvel of 25 Mm/m  until 1982, increas-
ing to 35 Mm/m  in 1983 and to 45 Mm/m  in 1988.  In contrast, the water
charges for hotel and commercial users would increale from an average of
115 Mm/m  in 1979 to 145 Mm/m  in 1983 and 265 3Mm/m  in 1988.  For all users,
the average watsr rate would rise from 50 Mm/m  in 1979 to 75 Mm/m3 in 1983
and to 125 Mm/m in 1988. Additional rev,enues would come from connection
charges and from meter rentals. Although the water charges proposed for
hotels are high, they would not constitute an undue financial burden on their
operations.
6.16      The water supply to neighboring villages would continue to be pro-
vided through standpipes which would be paid for by the Governorate at a flat
rate, assumed to be LE 53 per standpipe per annum in 1979 gradually increasing
to LE 95 in 1986-88.
6.17      The new sewerage system in Luxor is expected to be in full operation
in 1983. The project cost is estimated to be about LE 7.7 million, which
would be financed entirely by the Goverrunent. Where sewerage systems exist
in Egypt, no charges are imposed on users apart from the connection fee. It
has been assumed that this practice would continue in Luxor in respect of
domestic users, but that charges would be levied on hotels and other commercial
establishments, so that the operating, maintenance and depreciation costs of
the sewerage system could be met. With a sewer connection charge for all
users of LE 50 in 1983, rising to LE 65 in 1986, and a sewerage surcharge on
the water rate to hotels and other commercial establishments, the City woulcd
be able to meet these costs. For hotels, the charges would amount to 1.5 to
2% of gross sales, and would not constitute an undue financial burden (Annex
V, Table 14).
6.18      The solid waste disposal systerm would also be operated by the City
of Luxor Municipality. Investments in the system are relatively small, but
the costs of these investments, as well as operating costs, which are estimated
at LE 43,000 in 1979 increasing to LE 73,000 in 1988, would be recovered
through annual charges, calculated to be LE 12 per household in 1979, increas-
ing to LE 24 in 1986. These charges appear to be affordable for most house-
holds. For purposes of the forecast, it has been assumed that hotels would be
charged on the basis that 5 hotel rooms equal one household (Annex V, Table 15).
6.19      The consolidated financial projections for water supply, sewerage
and solid waste disposal operations (Annex V, Tables 8-10) show that with the
projected user charges for water, sewerage and solid waste disposal, revenuEs
from 1985 would be sufficient to recover all capital and operating costs from
the beneficiaries with the Government subsidizing only the water supplied
through standpipes. At the same time, the rates would be affordable by the
local population as well as the hotels and commercial establishments. As
steps towards meeting the objective given in para. 6.14, agreement was



- 36 -
reached that the City of Luxor would establish charges for water supply,
sewerage and solid waste disposal services at levels which from January 1,
1982 would yield revenues adequate to cover costs of operation, maintenance,
and interest on loan capital, and from January 1, 1985 would cover also
depreciation. Agreement was also reached that the cost of water provided
through standpipes would be borne by the Governorate. Since the current
accounting system is inadequate, assurances were obtained that the City would
establish an appropriate system of commercial accounts for its water supply,
sewerage and solid waste disposal operations. The financial records would be
maintained according to generally accepted accounting principles and be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Assurances were
also obtained that the audited financial statements would be submitted to IDA
within six months after the end of each fiscal year of operation.
Egyptian Museum
6.20      The revenues of the Museum from visitor entry fees were LE 432,000
in 1978 and total revenues including revenues from concessions and the sale
of reproductions were almost LE 450,000. Costs of operation were approxi-
mately LE 120,000 and in addition, some LE 15,000 was spent on improvements to
the Museum including new electrical wiring and additional library space. The
EAO proposes to consolidate the present standard (non-concessional) entry fees
(LE 0.75 to the Museum and LE 0.25 to the mummy room) into an all-inclusive
fee of LE 1.50, which is expected to be introduced in October 1979. Though
estimates of increased operating and maintenance costs must be tentative at
this stage, an increase in the net receipts per non-concessional visitor of
approximately LE 1.2 (at 1978 prices) has been calculated to be sufficient to
meet such cost increases and yield a return of about 12% on the investments in
renovation proposed under the project. On the assumption of a LE 1.0 increase
in the regular entry fee, and taking into account the increased visitor
numbers projected in para 5.06, incremental revenues from entry fees (at 1978
prices) would amount to about LE 1.1 million in 1985 and LE 1.4 million by
1990. Additional revenues would comes from higher concession charges and
expansion and improvements in the production and sale of reproductions. The
increased costs of operation and maintenance of the renovated Museum have been
tentatively estimated at LE 350,000 at 1978 prices. The substantial surpluses
would go to the FFAMSLP. Assurances were obtained that the EAO would increase
by LE 1.0 the (non-concessional) visitor entry fees applicable in 1984 when
the renovation project is expected to be substantially completed, and the
entry fee would be adjusted at appropriate intervals for inflation (as measured
by the wholesale price index). Assurances were also obtained that the Museum
would establish appropriate systems of accounts, that these accounts would be
audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited financial
statements would be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each
fiscal year.



- 37 -.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The main justification for the Luxor and Abu Simbel components of
the project is that development of tourism in Luxor and Abu Simbel will yield
net economic benefits over and above the cost of the facilities to be financed
under the Credit, as well as the cost of complementary investments in hotels,
Nile cruises, and other tourism enterprises to be financed by other investors.
Benefits have been estimated as the receipts from tourists who come if the
project goes forward less the costs of serving them, compared with the receipts
and costs of tourism were the project not to take place. In addition to pro-
viding a basis for tourism development, several infrastructures constructed
under the project would also serve the 'Local population of the Luxor area.
7.02      The main benefits from the museum component would flow from the
improved conservation of priceless antiquities, improved research and library
facilities, and the improved display of the world's greatest collection of
Egyptian antiquities. The benefits which have been quantified, however,
refer only to increases in receipts from tourists entering the Museum.
A. Economic Returns from Tourism at Luxor
Benefits and Costs of Tourism Facilities
7.03      With the investments made under this project, accommodation capacity
would rise by 4,900 beds by 1990, of which 3,000 would be in higher category
hotels, 1,200 in other hotels and 700 in Nile cruisers (Annex VI, Table 1).
Without the infrastructure to be provided by the project, it is assumed that
there would be no further expansion of higher category hotels after the
opening of the 120 bed extension of the ETAP Hotel in 1979. Demand would
continue to grow, however, and bed occupancy rates would rise. Occupancy
rates of existing higher category hotels are assumed to rise to 75% by 1983
without the project compared to 66.5% with the project. If price controls
were removed, real receipts per guest-night in existing higher category hotels
would also rise; net receipts per guest-night are assumed to rise by 1984 by
20% in real terms without the project, compared with 5% with the project. Of
the 400 beds in lower category hotels now under construction, only 200 would
open without the project, the others being converted to other uses due to a
lack of services. The number of day visitors, and visitors arriving in
cruisers, would continue to rise for several years, and it is assumed that
they would level off in 1984 without the project.



- 38 -
7.04      Annex VI, Table 2 summarizes the main assumptions about receipts
and costs of different forms of tourist accommodations (in 1978 prices). Net
receipts are estimated at LE 32 per guest-night in new higher category hotl
as compared with LE 19 in existing hotels since most new capacity will consist
of higher category accommodations than are now available.
7.05      Entry fees to monuments in Luxor and on the west bank averaged
LE 3.5 per visitor in 1977, and are estimated to remain at this level without
the project. With the project, average entry fees are assumed to rise by LE 1
per visitor in 1983 due both to the necessity to raise fees to ration increas-
ingly scarce attractions and to the opportunity to charge for new amenities
(including the visitor center, and improvements at the west bank monuments).
Investment expenditures connected with the monuments come to LE 1.1 million,
and incremental operating costs including replacement expenditures are esti-
mated at LE 75,000 per year.
7.06      It is assumed that the average tourist spends LE 5 per day on
curios and gifts in Luxor, and that other expenditures (transfers from the
airport or train station, meals outside hotels, excursions, and tips) come
to LE 5 per visitor and LE 3.7 per visitor day. Gross operating profit
on these activities approximates 30% of receipts while net investment is
estimated at LE 1.2 per LE of incremental sales. Gross operating profit on
handicrafts is estimated at 50% of receipts and incremental investment in
handicraft production and sale is estimated at LE 0.1 per LE of incremental
sales (Annex VI, Table 3).
7.07      Changes in tourist expenditures external to Luxor but induced by
the project have not been quantified and this lends a conservative bias to the
estimates. Thus, by allowing more tourists to visit Luxor, the project will
attract more tourists to Egypt and will enable hotels in Cairo to earn higher
revenues than they otherwise would, at least in the early and mid-1980s when
the present surge of hotel construction in Cairo comes on stream. Exclusion
from estimates of project benefits and costs of receipts and cost of tourist
transportation between Cairo and Luxor may also underestimate net benefits.
The benefits and costs of the air terminal investment have been included. The
benefit of the terminal consists of the reduction in turnaround time of B 737
flights by 10 minutes and A-300 flights by 20 minutes for per flight savings
of LE 54 and LE 187 respectively evaluated at direct aircraft operating cost
(excluding fuel). Given the expected buildup in traffic and Egyptair's likely
scheduling pattern and load factors of 60%, these benefits average out at LE
1.8 per tourist. Benefits are understated to the extent that Luxor will
become a destination for international flights, securing landing fees from
international carriers arriving there, and also permitting some deferral of
the expansion of the Cairo airport. Benefits to the local population from
those infrastructural components which would provide significant services to
them have not been quantified.
7.08      For purposes of evaluating the net benefits from tourism, receipts
of infrastructure services from tourism firms have been counted as benefits,
while infrastructural investments have been attributed to tourism in the same



- 39 --
proportions as the proportion of tourism demand to total demand in 1990;
i.e. 30% of investments in water, sewerage and solid waste disposal services,
20% in electricity, and 85% in telecommunications, for a total attributable
investment of LE 6.6 million.   Annual replacement expenditures are assumed
to equal 3% of initial investment cost. The total LE 1.8 million investment
in non-revenue earning infrastructures (road, the Corniche, docks), has been
attributed to tourism, together with the associated operating and maintenance
cost estimated at 5% of the initial investment. The costs associated with
hotel training (LE 1 million) studies (LE 0.44 million) and project management
(LE 0.63 million) have also been included in the cost stream (Annex VI,
Table 4).
Rates of Return
7.09       On the above assumptions, and assuming that receipts and costs re-
main constant for 20 years from 1990, and with no residual value, the rate of
return comes to 13%. The sensitivity of these results to alternative assump-
tions about the streams of benefits and costs are shown in Annex VI, Table 5.
7.10       For the best estimate of the rate of return, the financial cost of
purchased inputs to tourism enterprises are assumed to equal opportunity cost,
that is, the subsidies on some inputs (fuel, some foodstuffs) are assumed to
counterbalance the indirect taxes on others. Tips and service charges in
accommodation establishments (5% of sales) are assumed to represent a net gain
over the opportunity cost of labor. The assumption that 50% of handicraft
sales is net gain to the economy implicitly assumes that labor in this sector
earns more than in its best alternative. Shadow pricing of labor in higher
category accommodations at 75% of payro:Ll cost would raise the rate of return
to 14%, while shadow pricing foreign exchange at 20% over the current exchange
rate would raise the rate of return to 15.5%.
7.11       The returns on the project ares not very sensitive to the benefits
and costs of attributable infrastructures: an increase in investment costs of
such infrastructures by 50% and a reduction of operating benefits by 50% would
reduce the rate of return by only 1.5 percentage points. Since accommodati-ons
account for 77% of total investments, and 59% of total operating benefits,
rates of return are sensitive to the assumptions about benefits and costs of
accommodations. Keeping non-accommodation flows constant, operating benefi-ts
of accommodations would have to fall by a little over 10% and investment costs
rise by just over 10% from the best estimate levels for the rate of return on
the project to decline to 10%. Returns are less sensitive to the timing of
the build-up of hotels.
7.12       All accommodation investments taken together yield a rate of return
of only 9%. This is partly because existing accommodations would yield higher
returns without than with the project (since they would not have to compete
with new capacity) and partly to the high investment cost per room in new
hotels. Some increases in sales external to the hotels would also occur wi th-
out the project. If, however, it were assumed that new capacity would not



- 40 -
divert clientele from existing hotels, and that competition would not reduce
prices charged on existing capacity, the rate of return on the project would
be 15%.
7.13      Net benefits of the project are sensitive to estimated returns
from miscellaneous tourism services and handicraft sales. Reduction of the
estimates of benefits and costs of these items by 50% would cut the rate
of return to 11%.
B.  Ecdhomic Returns from Tourism at Abu Simbel
7.14      The project would finance extensions to the Nefertari guesthouse to
enable it to accommodate all the passengers of a Boeing 737 (the aircraft used
to transfer tourists to Abu Simbel), and improvements to telecommunications
and to the access road from the airport to the monument and the hotel. The
benefits of the Nefertari extension and telecommunications improvements would
arise from the fact that the tourists on the last flight of the day could be
accommodated at Abu Simbel overnight whereas at present this is impossible
due to the inadequate size of the guesthouse. At present, the first Aswan/Abu
Simbel flight of the day flies back almost empty to Aswan, and the last flight
of the day flies almost empty to Abu Simbel. The project would therefore
generate two types of benefits. First, the direct receipts less costs of
incremental tourists to be accommodated in the Nefertari guesthouse derived
from the financial analysis of Annex V. Second, Egyptair would be able to
reduce Aswan/Abu Simbel flights by one on days with three or more flights for
a saving of LE 700 per flight. This saving would be possible for all months
but June after the guesthouse opens in 1982, and with the growth of demand,
it would be possible in all months from 1990. Realization of these potential
benefits would require close coordination between Egyptair and the management
of the Nefertari guesthouse.
7.15      The rate of return on the accommodation investment taken alone comes
to 15%. When the full potential aircraft cost savings and the costs of the
telecommunications improvements are included, the rate of return becomes 24%
(Annex VI, Table 7). The telecommunications improvements will also bring
unquantified benefits to the local population, and provide a vital communi-
cations link in the case of emergencies.
7.16      The improvements to the access road at Abu Simbel are the least cost
solution to keeping this road open. The best alternative would be to continue
repairing the culvert at an average of around LE 5,000 per year, plus con-
structing a realigned road for approximately LE 450,000 when the existing
culvert collapses during one of the annual rises in the level of Lake Nasser.
On the assumption of a 10% probability of a washout in each of the 10 years
from the date of the repairs, the expected LE 300,000 cost of this alternative
(using a discount rate of 10%) exceeds the LE 276,000 cost of the proposed
road component.



-41 -
C. Economic Returns from the Renovation of the Egyptian Museum
7.17      The principal benefits flowing from the renovation of the Egyptian
Museum--the improved conservation of irreplaceable antiquities, improved
facilities for research and scholarship, and improved display of one of the
greatest collections in mankind's cultural heritage--are largely unquanti-
fiable. Thus, for example, the gains f-rom arresting the deterioration of
fragile artifacts are at present impossible to calculate, since adequate
information on the number of artifacts, their physical state, and the best
means for preserving them will only become available during the course of
the studies to be financed under the project. Similarly, it is not possible
to quantify the gains which will accrue from reorganizing the collection and
making it more accessible to scholars. Nevertheless, the Egyptian Governmlent
can expect more tangible benefits from the investment of resources in the
museum renovation by increasing visitor entry fees as outlined in para. 6.20.
On these assumptions, which involve a readily affordable increase in the entry
fee paid by foreign visitors, 1/ the proposed investment would yield an eco-
nomic rate of return of 12%. This return is conservative, since it does not
take into account net benefits from other tourist activities resulting from
the increased length of stay induced by the museum improvements.
D. Beneficiaries
7.18      The Government stands to gain from tourism expansion in Luxor and
Abu Simbel through taxation of tourism enterprises and of tourists as well
as through its ownership of Egyptair and hotels. The size of the Government's
share of tourist receipts will depend 'Largely upon policies on prices and
taxation. With appropriate policies, the Government would receive 15-20% of
the incremental tourist expenditures in Luxor in 1990, excluding profits or
losses of Egyptair and Egypt Rail. The local labor force will receive around
20-25%, and surpluses accruing to investors will account for another 20%. The
remainder (35-40%) would constitute purchases from other sectors or imports.
In addition, the local population will benefit from the improved services in
the Luxor area which are in part cross--subsidized by tourism enterprises. In
the case of Abu Simbel, most benefits would flow to the Government, through
enhanced profitability of the Nefertari guesthouse and of Egyptair. The
greater part of the quantifiable benefits from the Egyptian Museum renovation
would flow to the Government.
1/   No increase is foreseen in concessional entry fees for Egyptians who
enter the Museum on Fridays and holidays or as members of special groups.



- 42 -
E. Employment Generation
7.19      The increment by 1990 in employment in hotels in Luxor due to the
project would be on the order of 2,100 persons (assuming productivity increases
at 2% per year). The investment cost per job in accommodation would come to
LE 35,800 per job, or to LE 4,900 per year of employment. 1/ Incremental
employment in non-hotel activities dealing directly with tourists occupations
due to the project would be 2,600 to 3,200 persons by 1990, for an investment
cost per job of LE 1,600 to LE 2,000 (or to LE 250 to LE 310 per year of
employment), 2/ with the range depending upon the number of employees in
handicrafts. One-quarter to one-half of these persons would probably be
included in the poverty group (1977 household income under LE 383) in the
absence of tourism. Including incremental employment of around 200 in the
Antiquities Department and the Ministry of Tourism and municipal services
implies a total investment/job ratio of around LE 17,500 (LE 3,700 per year).
The construction of the various infrastructure and superstructure facilities
is expected to generate over 20,000 manyears of employment in construction
between 1978 and 1990, peaking at 6,000 in 1982. In addition, the program
would stimulate job growth in other activities such as agriculture, manufac-
turing, and transport and distribution firms supplying tourism, mostly in
Lower Egypt. In Abu Simbel, 70 new hotel employees would be needed. The
project would probably bring some savings in employment to Egyptair and on
road maintenance. Increased employment in all grades in the Egyptian Museum
is estimated at about 100 persons.
F. Foreign Exchange Earnings
7.20      Virtually all incremental tourist expenditures in Luxor will be by
foreigners. By 1985, the incremental net foreign exchange earnings connected
with the project would be almost LE 15 million or 76% of incremental tourism
earnings in that year. These figures are forecast at LE 30 million and 79%
respectively by 1990. In the case of Abu Simbel, provided that the cost
savings from reducing the number of flights are captured from tourists rather
than dissipated away in the form of charging lower fares, incremental net
foreign exchange earnings due to the project would come to around LE 0.5
million by 1990. Foreign exchange receipts from the increase in entry fees
at the Egyptian Museum are estimated at LE 1 million in 1985 and LE 1.25
million in 1990. The increment in foreign exchange costs of museum opera-
tion and maintenance is unlikely to exceed LE 60,000 per year.
1/   Discounting future investment and employees at 10% per year.
2/   Discounted investment per 15-year job would come to LE 3,750 to LE 4,650,
compared with the Urban Poverty Program Capital Labor Threshold of around
LE 2,500 per 15-year job equivalent.



- 43 -
G. Risks
7.21      Despite risks of temporary political disturbances in the Middle
East, which would affect visitor flows, the main risk facing the project is
whether Luxor will achieve the forecast increase in visitors at the rising
real prices necessary to earn adequate Einancial and economic returns on the
types of facilities which are under consideration. Two hotel projects now
being planned would be in categories significantly superior to the proposed
renovated Luxor Hotel or the ETAP Hotel. It is questionable whether construc-
tion of luxury hotels in Luxor would attract significant incremental visitors
who would not visit Luxor in the absence of such facilities. It appears
desirable that the Government should set an upper limit to the cost per
room of hotels in which Egyptian funds are invested. Such a policy would
not preclude luxury projects financed exclusively by foreign investors. It
would require that careful attention be paid to reducing hotel investment
costs, whether through changes in design, building practices, or contract-
ing procedures. The importance of this factor is underlined by the sensi-
tivity of the rate of return to investment costs. For these reasons, the
proposed Credit would include funds for a study of hotel investment costs
(para. 2.41 (iv)). With a view to reducing the risks of insufficient capacity
in Luxor, agreement was reached that the Government would (a) allow hotels
in Luxor and Abu Simbel to set prices at levels which would yield an annua:L
return in real terms of at least 10% on investment, and (b) ensure that
sufficient numbers of new hotel rooms would be in operation in Luxor in each
year from 1984 to make the project there economically viable. A further risk
is that the management of the renovated Luxor Hotel and Nefertari guesthouse
would not reach a standard adequate to yield the full returns foreseen.
Agreement was reached that hotel management consultants would be employed to
assist in upgrading the present management of these hotels.
7.22      The main risk connected with the Egyptian Museum component are
that the collections would be dispersed to other museums, thereby lessening
the attractiveness of the Museum for tourists, and that the improvements
foreseen in the management and operation of the Museum would be realized only
in part. Assurances were obtained that the principal collections of the
Museum would remain essentially intact and the Museum would remain the prin-
cipal repository of Egyptian antiquities in Cairo for fifteen years from the
completion of the museum renovation. Technical assistance would be provided
under the project to recommend revised management procedures, organization
and staffing, and to assist the museum administration to implement agreed
recommendations.
VIII. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. Social Aspects
Population of Luxor
8.01      Luxor, which is part of the Governorate of Qena, is in many
respects a typical medium-sized Upper Egyptian town and is an important



- 44 -
center in terms of transport, health, education and communication services.
It is the capital of Luxor district which has a population of 212,000. The
Governorate of Qena traditionally is an area of out-migration to the urban
areas in Lower Egypt. The population of the Governorate and Luxor town
grew by only 1.5% annually during the 1966-76 period compared to the national
annual rate of increase of 2.3%. With the expansion of tourism a faster rate
of growth is expected in the future and the population of Luxor town and the
surrounding villages is projected to rise by 2% per year, reaching some
123,000 by 1990.
8.02      Approximately 27% of the population is economically active; few
women enter the labor force, mainly in service occupations. The average
household size is somewhat larger than for the whole of Egypt because, due
to migration, multiple families are formed. As Luxor has many good schools,
its population has a higher educational level than that of the Governorate.
Although served adequately by health clinics and hospitals, the population
suffers from many communicable diseases.
Employment and Income
8.03      The urban population of Luxor is mainly employed in services (30%),
trade (20%), transport, communication and storage (20%) and manufacturing
(12%). Tourism in itself is not a census category, but tourism activities
fall under the first three categories mentioned. The employment activities
in the surrounding area reflect the situation of Qena Governorate as a whole;
approximately 75% of the economically active population is involved in agri-
culture. Results from the household survey carried out in mid-1978 in Lxuor
town and ten surrounding villages indicate that approximately 22% of the
active labor force is employed either directly in tourism or in related
activities such as handicraft production for sale to tourists.
8.04      Egypt's median urban and rural household incomes were LE 55 and
LE 37 per month respectively in 1978, 1/ while the reported median cash
incomes in a 1978 Luxor household survey were LE 54 and LE 20 per month for
urban and rural households, respectively. These figures indicate that about
20% of the households in Luxor town and about 60% in the rural areas are below
the poverty line, but the latter figure appears an overestimate, since income
in kind was not included. Incomes in the tourism sector range from LE 150 to
LE 200 per month for higher level staff in a higher category hotel, LE 150 per
month for licensed guides or taxi driver/guides, to LE 15 to LE 45 per month
for the lower level staff in hotels, tourism police, horse-drawn vehicle
drivers and boat operators. Employment in the formal tourism sector (e.g.,
hotels) guarantees an income which is far above the median income. During
the off-season, tourism sector incomes are drastically reduced.
8.05      Indirect employment is generated by the tourism sector in Luxor in
the construction, agricultural services and handicraft sectors. The extent of
local purchases for the tourism sector is limited. Most of the food products
consumed in the higher category hotels are brought in directly from Cairo,
1/   Based on the official 1974-75 Family Budget Expenditures Survey, inflated
to 1978 prices.



- 45 --
with the exception of a limited range of products grown on a 30 hectare
private farm close to Luxor. Lower category hotels obtain almost all their
wares from local suppliers, but ultimately most of these goods come from
Cairo.
8.06      Growth in the tourism sector cls foreseen under the project would
have the following consequences. It would reduce out-migration and induce
in-migration of unskilled construction workers and of higher level staff for
the hotels and tourism services.  The expected construction boom, especially
during the 1980-84 period, can be expected to provide the existing population
with increased employment opportunities in construction as well as in provid-
ing services needed by the influx of migrant workers. Increased employment
in hotels and in other tourist services would be filled in part by locals who
would otherwise have migrated to Lower Egypt and part by immigration. The
inflow of population would put pressure on housing and increased "densifica-
tion" of the town will probably occur, as house-owners add rooms or additional
floors to their houses. This process, currently under way in Luxor, is likely
to accelerate.
8.07      The improvement of basic util-ities--water, sewerage, electricity-.-
would improve the quality of life and health of a large part of the Luxor
population, but some poor families may be unable without assistance to afford
utility hook-up and monthly charges. Small loans or deferred payments to
cover hook-up charges are provided elsewhere in Egypt to assist low-income
families; the need for and application of such assistance would be included
in the proposed study of utility charges in Luxor (para. 2.41(ii)).
8.08      Government plans foresee adequate increases in health and education
services to support the population growth in the near future. The existing
and planned technical and commercial schools would supply skilled masons,
electricians, carpenters, and secretarial staff who could all find employment
opportunities in Luxor itself due to tourism development. Middle level hotel
staff would be trained at the hotel school included in the project. Lower-
level staff would continue to be trained on the job.
8.09      The impact of the proposed project could have adverse effects on
some segments of the west bank population. The introduction of a modern
visitor management system might upset the traditional system of guiding at
the monuments, and could lead to a drop in employment and income for these
unqualified self-appointed guides. The west bank visitor management study
would suggest ways of minimizing adverse impacts of improved systems of
visitor management (para 2.41(i)).
B. Environmental Aspects
Land Use and Zoning
8.10      In 1976, the Council of Ministers issued Decree No. 134 designating
Luxor a "tourist area," which requires that all new construction should be
approved by the Ministry of Tourism (see map). The development of tourism



- 46 -
facilities in Luxor would be in accordance with the Land Use Plan of Luxor,
approved in 1976 by the Municipality of Luxor, Governorate of Qena and the
Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation. The plan is based on two main concepts:
(i)  no urban or hotel development shall take place on the west
bank of the Nile except for the relocation of people living
on the tombs; and
(ii)  environmental protection/conservation zones shall be
preserved around the monuments of both east and west banks.
8.11       The four existing international hotels are spread along the Corniche
overlooking the Nile. The Land Use Plan calls for development of a hotel zone
along 3.5 km of the Corniche to a depth varying between 80 to 200 m with a
total area of 35 ha. The present urban area has 110 ha of developed land of
which 90 ha are residential. The urban expansion planned for the south and
southeast (away from the monuments) provides for an additional 170 ha, of
which 90 ha would be residential. The land requirements for the community
facilities, i.e., recreation, education and health, have been designated in
the plan along with service industries and utilities. Each of these uses will
be described in terms of land-use zoning regulations. Sub-division regulations
to control the development in terms of bulk, height, architectural style and
setback requirements will be included in such regulations to ensure conformity
with the plan. Adequate rights-of-way have been reserved for traffic, both
slow-moving and fast-moving, to serve the future transportation needs of the
town. The right of way of the Avenue of the Sphinx between the Luxor and
Karnak temples has been delineated as a special zone prohibiting any new
construction so that in the future the Sphinxway can be restored. Assurances
were obtained that the land-use and subdivision regulations for the City
of Luxor and the composition of the administrative body responsible for
enforcing these regulations and controlling development in "the tourist area"
would be acceptable to IDA.
8.12      The proposed project would have favorable environmental impacts on
the town by improving water supply and water quality, ensuring the completion
of improved sewage disposal and solid waste disposal systems and environmental
sanitation measures. The development of the Corniche would create an attrac-
tive environment along the Nile for the enjoyment of both tourists and citizens.
8.13      River cruisers at present discharge all waste in the Nile.  The
project will provide the cruiser docks in Luxor with water, sanitary sewerage
and power connections and facilities for garbage disposal. The impact of an
increased number of cruisers and the necessary environmental controls will be
studied under the "Comprehensive Water Management Plan for the Year 2000 for
Egypt", which the Bank is currently supervising.
8.14      The project would bring improvements to the environment of the
major monuments themselves. Removal of inappropriate structures close to the
monuments and measures to control visitor numbers to avoid congestion are
aspects of the project. The protection of paintings in the Royal Tombs, which



- 47 -
are in danger from touch, dust, light and humidity, would be partly financed
under the proposed Credit (para. 2.28) and a study of visitor management on
the west bank would be financed from the Credit as a prelude to implementing
the program of investments there (para. 2.41(i)). The five-year program for
development of museums and antiquities sites (para. 2.41 (vi)) would in the
longer term result in better protection and increased attractiveness of thes
antiquities.
IX. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained and agreement
reached on the following:
(a) that the sewerage system to sesrve the hotels in Luxor would
be completed by June 30, 1981, a Water and Sanitation Depart-
ment would be established within the City administration by
June 30, 1981, and the job qualifications and descriptions
for the head of the Department, the chief engineer and
the chief accounting officer would be satisfactory to IDA
(paras 2.18, 4.09);
(b) that EAO would, in consultation with Unesco, undertake to com-
plete by December 1981 measures to protect the Royal Tombs at
Luxor, and the study of visitor management on the west bank
of the Nile at Luxor would be completed within one year of
Credit effectiveness (paras 2.28, 2.41);
(c)  that the job qualifications and description for the director
of the hotel school in Luxor would be acceptable to IDA, the
status and levels of emoluments of the staff would be estab-
lished by EGOTH on a basis acceptable to IDA by December 31,
1981, and EGOTH would meet the operating losses of the
school, if any (paras 2.36, 4.11, 6.13)
(d) that pedestrian and vehicular access to the Egyptian Museum
site would be protected, the management, organization,
budgeting procedures and staffing of the Museum would be
upgraded, visitor entry fees would be increased, the collec-
tions of the Museum would remain essentially intact for
fifteen years after the completion of the museum renovation,
during which period the museum would remain the principal
repository of Egyptian antiquities in Cairo (paras 2.40,
4.12, 6.05, 6.20, 7.23);



-- 48 -
(e) that the studies of municipal services, airport costs, hotel
tariffs and investment costs, and a 5-year plan for the anti-
quities sector would be completed within 18 months of Credit
effectiveness, and that (i) charges would be levied with a view
to recovering investment and operating costs of non-revenue
earning components of the project in Luxor and of those
attributable to civil aviation services provided at domestic
airports in Egypt, and (ii) user charges would be levied for
water supply, sewerage and solid waste disposal services at
levels which would yield revenues adequate to cover costs of
operation, maintenance and depreciation and interest on
the loan capital invested in them (para 2.41, 6.03, 6.04,
6.19);
(f) that adequate resources would be made available from the
FFAMSLP to ensure timely completion of the renovation of
the Egyptian Museum, and that the Government would meet cost
overruns on the Luxor and Abu Simbel project components (para.
3.07);
(g) that funds from the Credit used to finance electric power,
telecommunications, water supply, solid waste disposal, the
Luxor hotel and the Nefertari guesthouse would be on-lent by
the Government on terms acceptable to IDA (para 3.08);
(h) that a Project Unit would be established within the Ministry
of Tourism, which would coordinate each of the executing
agencies and report on progress of project execution of the
Luxor and Abu Simbel proje?ct components to the Bank and a
Ministerial Coordinating Committee on which would be rep-
resented the various agencies responsible for project imple-
mentation; the job qualifications and description for the
director, assistant director and procurement officer of the
Unit would be satisfactory to IDA (para 4.02);
(i) that a Unit, headed by a qualified project manager, would be
established to supervise the execution of the Museum component,
and the job qualifications and description for the project
manager would be a acceptable to IDA (para 4.03);
(j) that the renovated Luxor Hotel and Nefertari guesthouse would
be managed by qualified, experienced and competent management,
and hotel management consultants would be appointed not later
than December 31, 1979 (para 4.10);
(k) that the planning and budget unit within the EAG, with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, would be strengthened
to prepare the annual budget, estimate annual revenues of the
FFAMSLP over five years and formulate a five-year program for
development of the antiquities sector (para. 4.13);



- 49 -
(m)  that appropriate systems of arcounts would be established
for the Luxor Hotel and hotel school, the Nefertari guesthouse,
the Luxor Water and Sanitation Department, and the Egyptian
Museum, and that these accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA within 6
months of the end of each fiscal year (paras 6.11, 6.13,
6.19, 6.20);
(n)  that the Government would ensure that a sufficient number of
hotel rooms would be in operation in Luxor each year from
1984 to make the project economically viable and the hotels
in Luxor and Abu Simbel would be allowed to set prices at
levels which would yield an annual return in real terms of
at least 10% on investment (para 7.21);
(o) that the land-use and subdivision regulations for the City
of Luxor and the composition of the administrative body
responsible for enforcing these regulations and for con-
trolling development in the Luxor "tourist area" would be
acceptable to IDA (para 8.11).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be the establishment of the
Project Unit and the appointment of its director, assistant director and
procurement officer (para. 4.02), the establishment of the Implementation Unit
in the Egyptian Museum (para. 4.03), and the execution of subsidiary loan
agreements with EEA, ARETO, EGOTH, EAO, ECAO, MATCO, RWWA and the City of
Luxor (para. 3.08).
9.03      A condition of disbursement for the hotel school component of the
project would be the signing of the contract with GTZ (para. 2.35).



ANNEX I
Table 1
- 50 -
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
TOURIST TRAVEIL STATISTICS, 1952 - 1978
Visitors,/          Average         Nights
Arrivals            Length          Spent
( '00)       of stay (days)        ('000)
1952                       76                n.a.             n.a.
1953                       90                n.a.             n.a.
1954                      114                n.a.             n.a.
1955                      149                29.5            4,396
1956                      170                30.8            5,231
1957                      128                39.8            5,097
1958                      163                22.4            3,653
1959                      240                20.5            4,924
1960                      285                16.0            4,560
1961                      284                16.4            4,645
1962                      291               .14.3            4,166
1963                      404                10.5            4,223
1964                      497                14.1            7,024
1965                      542                19.2           10,401
1966                      579                16.9            9,783
1967                      344                18.5            6,369
1968                      318                13.4            4,376
1969                      345                12.7            4,396
1970                      358                12.8            4,574
1971                      428                14.0            5,979
1972                      541                12.2            6,614
1973-                     535                12.0            6,394
1974                      680                 9.6            6,505
1975                      703                 7.4            5,854
1976                      984                 6.9            6,796
1977                     1004                 6.3            6,339
1977*                     672                 6.1           -4,083
1978*                     663                 6.6            4,396
/1  Includes all visitors staying more than 24 hours in Egypt.
*   January to August.
Source: Ministry of Tourism,
Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics.



ANNEX I
Table 2
- 51 -
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
VISITOR ARRIVALS BY GROUP OF NATIONALITIES
('000)
North
Year           Arabs    %   Europeans    %   Ancricins    %   Other    %   Total
192                                                                                 76
1953                                                                                90
1954             38   33.3        49      43.0      20       17.5    7      6.2   114
1955             43   28.9        71      47.7      27       18.1    8      5.3   149
1956             62   36.5        75      44.1      24       14.1   .9      5.3   170
1957             67   52.3        41      32.0      11        8.6    9      7.1   128
1958             80   49.1        44      27.0      17       10.4   22    13.5   163
1959            129   53.7        69      28.8      18        7.5   24    10.0   240
1960            127   44.6        91      31.9      37       13.0   30    10.5   2S5
1961            107   37.7       106      37.3     43        15.1   28      9.9   284
1962            116   39.9        87      29.9      40       13.7   48    16.5   291
1963            151   37.4       133      32.9      61       15.1   59    14.6   404
1964            208   41.9       165      33.2      66       13.3   58    11.6   497
1965            246   45.4       179      33.0      63       11.6   54    10.0   542
1966            256   44.2       197      34.0      73       12.6   53      9.2   579
1967            167   48.5       112      32.6      31        9.0   34      9.9   344
1968            184   57.9        82      25.8      23        7.2   29      9.1   318
1969            194   56.2        85      24.6      33        9.6   33      9.6   345
1970            232   64.5        66      18.4      25        7.0   35    10.1   358
1971            260   60.7        95      22.2      30        7.0   43    10.1   428
1972            3;4   58.0       132      24.4      44        8.1   51       9.5   54;
1973            333   62.2       119      22.2      41        7.7   42       7-9   535
1974            412   61.7       144      21.5      56        8.4   56       8.4   668
1975            438   55.3       214      27.0      76        9.6   65       8.1   793
1976            535   54.4       265      26.9      84        8.5  100    10.2   984
1977            475   47.3       312      31.1    105        10.5  112    11.1 1004
1977*           327   48.7       207      30.8      71       10.5   67    10.0   672
1978*           295   44.5       209      31.5      92       13.9   67    10.1   663
* January to August
Source: Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation, Central Agency for
Mobilization and Statistics



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
VISITOR ARRIVALS BY NATIONALITIES, 1968-1977
,                                                                            ('000o )
Average Yearly
Growth Rate          Growth Rate
1968     1969      1970    1971       1972      1973     1974      1975      1976      1977       1968-1975             1975-1977 5%)
.-:'.ya                         37.4     45.8      73.4    77.9    118.3    125.1    242.0    ICi.8          78.0      28.0         15.4                    -48
21.3     38.2      31.0    33.2       32.6     32.9      44.3      61.4     63.0       71.0         16.3                    + 7
SnuSi Arab4a                     7.1       5.8       S.6    19.6      27.6      34.6      47.3      60.!     98.0    130.0           35.7                   +45
29.5     23.8      15.9    17.9       26.5      25.0     23.1      32.3     51.0       37.0          1.3                    + 7
16.8     16.S      23 5    24.3       22.7      23.6     30.5      33.0      39.0      36.0         10.1                    + 4
22.9     27.4       3. 2    13.4      22.3      20.5     25.5      31.5      56.0      27.0          4.7                    - 8
Sci%-r Arao b                   49.4      35.1      63.2    73.9   '4.0         71.4      93.4    116.9    150.0    145.0            13.1 +ll
Tctal Arabs                 184.4    194.0    230.8   255.2    314.0    333.7.    412.1    437.5    535.0    474.0                13.1                   + 4
Fzencc                          10.8      11.2       9.6    17.4      23.3      23.3      20.3      43.5     54.0       55.0         22.0                    +32
Fed, Rep. of Germany            12.9      12.5       8.1    12.7      16.3      13.9      25.5      37.2     51.0       76.0         16.3                    +43
U.K.                            12.6      11.7      13.1    14.2      15.7      '6. 8     29.4      31.5     46.0       47.0         14.0                    +22
7.9       5.8      3.S      7.9      14.9     16.0      15.7      30.2      36.0      40.0         21.0                    +15
CtS.r Fu-op,ans                 37.8      43.8      31.4    42.8      61.S      49.0      50.1      71.f      78.0      94.0          9.6                    +15
Tetal Europeans              S2.0      85.0      6 . 0    95.0    132.0    119.0    ill, 0    214.0    265.0    312.0             14.4                   +20
U.S.A.                          18.3      27.7      21.4    23.6       36.0     33.7      46.9      58.8     69.0       88.0         18.1                    +22
Other Americans                  4.7       5.3       3.6    _.4        8.0        7.3      9.1      17.2     15.0      17.0          20.4
Total Americans              23.0      33.0      25.0    30.5l     44.0      41.0      56.0      76.0     84.0    105.0           18.6                   +17
0-her Touri.ts                  29.0      33.0      36.0    43.0      51.0      42.0Q    56.0       65.0    100.0    112.0           12.2                    +31
TC,AL                       317.6    345.3    337.7   428.1    540. F    534.0    679.5    793.1    984.0   1004.0                14.0                     13
Source:  tlinistrv of Tourism. Central Agency for Public Mobil.zation and Statistzcs
K



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
VISITOR ARRIVALS BY MEANS OF TRANSPORT, 1968-1977
('000)
>leans of Tra--sport      1968    %  1969    %  1970 v           1971   %   1972    '  1973   %  1974  %            1975   %   1976   %   1977   %
Air                    226   71   257   74   269  75    327  76    395  73    380  71   455   68                626  79      794  81    816  81
Sca                     53   17    3S   11       17   5       26   6       38   7       36   7    92   14        97  12    110  11    156  16
Road                    39   12    50   15        72 20       75  18    108  20    119  22   121   18             70   9       80   8      32   3
ft: L           318  100   345  100   353 100    428 100    541 100    535 100   668  100                793 100      984 100   1004 100    I
Source: Ministry of Tourism,
Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics.
oI1
H



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
LENGTH OF STAY AND NIGfTS SPENT IN EGYPT, BY GROUP OF NATIONALITIES, 1955-1977
Length o f Stav (dafi s )           _Nights Spent
Yesr      gyrabs    EuroDean.s   .Xt-.erLicar.s    Other      Arabs    Euroneans    Americans    Other          Total.
155         41          31             11         16         1,773       2,198           298         127       4,396
1?56         34          36             15         13         2,085       2,677           350         119        5,231
1957         32          78             14         45         2 ,55       3,183           154         405        5,097
19,8         24          25             12         17         1,960       1,121           200          372       3, 653
19,9         2X1         21             14         18         2,771       1,453           262          438       4,924
1?60         18          17              9         14         2;291       1,531           331          407       4.560
1961         21          16              8         13         2,257       1,668           358          362       4,645
-1962        17          16              8         11         1,964       1,349           303          550       4,166
1963         12          10              7         10         1,869       1,311           434          603       4,023         1
1964         19          12              6         13         3,856       1,986           426          756       7,024 
19(5         29          13              6         11.        7,068       2,388           395          610      10,401
69tG      25          12              6         11         6,439       2,327           424         593       9,783
i57          24          14             12         12         3,960       1,597           396         417        6,370
1 9685       i9           8              5          6         3,435          625          125          189       4,376
17           8              4          7         3,341         687           148         220       4,396
19,C        16           8              5          6         3,676         537           128         233        4,574
1971        18           9              6          "         4,619         827           189         344        5,979
1972         15           8              7          8         4,810       1,095           286          423       6,614 K
1973          9           7              5          6         2,874          777          186          235       6,394
197L         11           9              5          7         4 ,'44      1, 261          293          407       6,505
'-75          8           7              6          6         3,621       1,411           425          347       5,854    ui 
1976          8           6              6          5         4,081       1,855           500          360       6,796
1977          7           5              6          5         3,529       1,832           561          417       6,339
Source: Ministry of Tourism, Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
PROJECTED VISITOR ARRIVALS BY ORIGIN
('000)
WESTERN                       US, CANADA,                   SOCIALIST                  ARABS                 OTHERS                TOTAL
EUROPE                        AUSTRALIA,                    COUNTRIES
JAPAN                                                                                               ARRIVALS
Business/Vacation             Business/Vacation              Bus. & Vacation            Bus. & Vacation   Bus. & Vacation
1977               94        219                 36       85                         31                        475                  64                1004
1978              103        256                  40     100                         32                        508                  70                1109
1979              114        300                 44      118                         34                        544                  77                1231
1980              125        351                 48      140                         35                        582                  85                1366
1981              138        410                 53      165                         36                        623                  94                1519
1982              145        447                 56      182                         38                        654                 100                1625
1983              152        487                  58     200                         40                        687                 106                1730
1984              159        531                  61     220                         42                        721                 112                1846
1985              168        579                  64      242                        44                        751                 119                1973
1986              175        608                  67     254                         47                        780                 125                2056
1987              182        638                  69      267                        49                        803                 131                2139
1988              189        670                  72     280                         52                        827                 138                2228
1989              197        704                  75      294                        56                        852                 145                2323
1990              204        739                  78      309                        59                        878                 152                2419
Assumed growth rates:
1977-1981      10%          17%               10%      18%                        4%                          7%                 10%                 11%
1982-1985        5%          9%                5%      10%                         5%                         5%                  6%                   7%
1986-1990        4%          5%                4%       5%                        6%                          3%                  5%                  4%
Overall Rate    7%
1X



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Table 7
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
FOREIGN VISITOR EXPENDITURES
(receipts in foreign exchange)
Receipts            Receipts                 Receipts (in
(in Current          (in Current             Constant 1975
LE million)l/       US$ million)             US$ million)  /
1955                          22.7                    66.5                     172.7
1956                          20.4                    57.9                    145.1
1957                          23.2                    65.9                    159.6
1958                          15.6                    44.3                    107.0
1959                          23.6                    67.0                    161.4
1960                          23.5                    66.7                    157.3
1961                          23.3                    66.2                     154.7
1962                          17.8                    40.9                      96.7
1963                          26.8                    61.6                    144.9
1964                          37.5                    86.3                     200.0
1965                          50.0                   115.0                    530.6
1966                          59.0                   135.7                     614.0
1967                          38.0                    87.4                    191.7
1968                          31.0                    71.3                    166.6
1969                          31.0                    71.3                    165.0
1970                          37.0                    85.1                    177.3
1971                          48.0                   110.4                    212.3
1972                          60.0                   153.0                     266.1
1973                          61.0                   155.6                     224.5
1974                          81.0                   206.0                    237.6
1975                         109.0                   278.0                    278.0
1976                         181.5                   462.8                    458.2
1977                         284.9                   729.3                    658.2
1/  The Central Bank reports tourist receipts in LE as if they were all converted
at the official rate of exchange.
2/- Based on the IBRD index of manufacturing export prices to correct for
inflation.
Source: Ministry of Tourism, Central Bank, IBRD Report No. 814/78.



ECYPT TOURISM PROJECT
TOURISM AND GOODS AND SERVICFS EXPORTS
(in LF millions)
1966    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975   1976            1977 *
a.  Export of Goods                        259.5   355.4   369.7   353.7   396.3   653.9   612.8    629.7          843.8
b.  Export non-factor Services             166.4    73.9    76.4    98.7   132.3   203.8   279.3    450.0          566.4
c.  Export Factor Services                   4.1     2.5      2.8    35.4    34.1    80.1   213.2    323.4         597.7
d.  Total Export Goods and Services        430.0   431.8   448.9   487.8   462.7   937.8 1,105.3  1,403.1   2,007.9
e.  Tourism                                 59.0    37.0    48.0    60.0    61.0    81.0   109.0    181.5          284.9
f.  e. as percent of d.                     13.7%    8.6%   10.7%   12.3%   13.2%    8.6%    9.9%    12.9           14.2
* Estimates
Sources:  Central Bank, Ministry of Tourism.



- 58 -             ANNEX I
Table 9
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
MAIN EXPORT ITEMS
(in LE millions)
1974      1975       1976       1977 *
Rice                                           35.8      21.3       27.1        n.a.
Raw cotton                                    259.0     144.8      121.9       195.3
Cotton Yarns and textiles                     143.0     186.3      117.6       121.1
Petroleum products                             40.5      64.2      105.1       230.5
Workers' remittances from abroad               73.8     143.2      139.8       273.4
Tourism                                        81.0     109.0      181.5       284.9
Other                                         333.2     473.8      710.1        n.a.
Total exports of goods and services           937.8   1,105.3   1,403.1    2,007.9
* Estimated
Sources: Central Bank, Ministry of Tourism, Mission estimates.



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF TOURIST ARRIVALS BY MODE OF TRANSPORT, BEDNIGHTS, ACCOMMODATION CAPACITY
AND OCCUPANCY RATES BY TYPE OF ACCOMMODATION IN LUXOR, 1977
Length of Stay
Average        Average    Capacity       Annual (c)
Mode of Arrival                Total      Nights          Days       Available    Occupancy
Type of Accommodation    Air    Train/Bus   Steamer    Total    Nights  per Visitor  per Visitor End 1977 Beds   Rates (Z)
iIgher category
hotels (a)            46,000    83,000          -       129,000  291,000        2.25          2.25        1,380          57.8
Jther categories            -      19,000         -        19,000   96,000        5             5             880           30
Boats (b)               11,500        -         8,500      20,000   60,000        3             3             276          59.6
Day visitors             7,500      7,500         -        15,000       -         -             1             -              -
Total tourists          65.000   1O9;50O        8.500    183.O00  447,000         2.44          2.52        2,536          48.3
Non-tourists             7,000      n.a.          -         7,000
Total                   72,000   109,500 (d)  8,500    190,000
Sources: Egyptair, Egypt Rail, Egyptian Company of Hotels, Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation, Mission Estimates.
(a) Savoy, Luxor, Winter Palace, ETAP
(b) At the end of 1977, there were an estfmated 645 beds in boata used for visiting Luxor.  Most such boats spent time
elsewhere, however, and 276 beds represents the est4mated average amount of boat capacity in Luxor at any moment of
time during the season.
(c) Occupancy rate on capacity installed at the end of the year ,ignoring seasonal closings).
(d) Mission estimate. There were 224,326 arrivals and depar-ures on the Cairo-Luxor sleeping coaches, plus around one
million arrivals and departures on day trains to upper Egypt  but no statistics on the breakdown between tourists  
and others.  Informed officiEls of Egypt Rail felt that as many as 90% of passengers on the sleepers were foreign    -.z
tourists (i.e., 90% of 112,000 (- 100,800).  The remainder would be on day trains or arrive by bus from Cairo,                 fD
Hurgaddah, or Aswan.                                                                                                           0



- 60 -
ANNEX I
Table 11
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
ESTIMATED TOTAL EMPLOYMENT GENERATED BY TOURISM IN LUXOR
IN PEAK SEASON 1978
Category/Establishment                           No. employed
Large hotels                                             1,200
Other hotels                                               130
Restaurants and night clubs                                 25
Horse-drawn carriages                                      210
Buses and taxis                                            200
Staff of Nile cruisers visiting Luxor /a                   198
Registered guides                                           48
Unregistered guides                                        100
Egyptian Antiquities Organization /b                        45
Tourist police                                              58
Airport staff (including Egyptair) /c                       50
Ministry of Tourism                                         12
Travel agencies                                             80
All tourist-related shops                                  200
Peddlers - licensed                                        100
Peddlers - unlicensed                                      100
Handicraft; production and agents                     1,000 - 1,500
Fellucas                                                    40
Ferries                                                     21
Railroad staff residing in Luxor and working
on tourist trains                                         15
3,832 - 4,332
Ia Average per day during the season.
/b Total employees of EAO in Luxor area were 400.
/c Total employees of airport were over 200.



- 91 -
ECGYP  O'RISbl PFOJR0 r                                                                                                           MM NEX II
S4ILAAx  40 ESTEMlEGGD :11071W I fSTSIl
lin LFROtc:
Rate of Exc            lJane I'S1 L . .7,
I.aod                                                                                                                                 extoca 1 Assi stanca                                                           ral 2ro'ect Cos:
PAcqaistion 0         Clvi Woeeks             Feesitnee & Pisineas                  JontpaCt I               oWeakn rol  oernic- and Stdies  P_o Tt                            Ftg s         t       Lo   le   E0                         (in roa  eg02
Peejeot C..oepeeni              Tat.1        lo-a   Fe-egolTetal           Ea-e    oe-ige  Total         Eeeal         .. Gege  local   T-1a EFneeap    Tocl          T.o-Ia  Focalgo   fetal        Local  F-eeg    local         Lec.l  Poe-igo,  rotal         Le-sFeenige   Total
A       \. LRnR INFRASTRUCTUIRE            162   ,     750       2     ,4 6                                         9837  2   9E1 5 ,4  7 6 ,3    114                765                                                                             7,921
_L_   1,2~~~~~~~~~    L2_                                                                                                                                            441_791 17.411                 9,3_13  El1 4 16r  177299
1.   Roads and faery landiEg:
l ip-t  -d a                                    193       132      327                                                                      22         4       2A1                                                                    21n       136      25          3i3       194      507
l.b  hl C-iliche eoad                                 237      181       47t                                                           1          2'         *       1                                                                      32t       228      554         565       326      791
I.e   AEliec eoads, east batk             10          106       69       175                                         1        1        in         I                  11l                                                                    139        34      217         190       120.     310
1.8   Past bonk  eda                                   49        32       81                                         1        4         A          o         1        7                                                                      36        37        93        89         53      133
l.e  Fetev 1aodaags & doeka                           I75      116       291                                         9       46       5l          24         4       'l                                                                     2K1,      166      374         296       297      533
2.   late  distelb_itxaagseo 201                                86       287                                        33      315      343         3A8         7       5                                                                      272       408      6296 188              583      971
9.   Solid waste disposal                              42       2I       72                                         23      207     2Al                                                                                                      65       235      341          93       336      429
I.   11Iaecec lne: anpplv                110          482      483      965                                        972     288   3 abc:          Aol       xl       277                                                                   1.437    3,812    5,249        2,c33    5,446   7,499
5.   TelecoaaaaacetEena                               283      189       472                                       252   1,427   1,679           147        18      119                                                                     639    1,634    2,269          9C8   2,314    3,242
6.   Aieport teensal bidlag                           930      920   1,850            13       37       5C          84      120217                _2      148       71':                                                                  1.069    1.221   2-320         1,927    1,787   3,311
B.    !.lX03 ARC101011OGICA4  SIL'ES                   351       321      672          15       35       50          24      721       32:         91        14        S                                                                     5_1i1     941    1,152         290       919    1.645
1.    t st hank  nanaceolta                            72       95       172                                        29      169      198           1         ,       77                                                                     177       270      410         196       381      581
l. eat abant b isiteor a -tee                   256      212      468           15       35       50          71       lx      1ce         5A          3       no                                                                     746       710      696         :94      cSn       9919
3.   E.st bank --nuents                                18       14        32                                         4       17       21           6                  6                                                                      28        31        59         40        44       84
C.    L006R T9URTST AECGO,iODATIONS                  2,578   1IbR    4,246            324      652      976         444    1,774    2,718         631      112       743                                                                   3,977    i,2nG    E18          5,682    6_   I
1.   I.o  HI otel                                   1,537      975   2,512          198       462      660         349   1,394   1,743           417        74     491                                                                    2,591   2,905   58,46          3,573   4,150    7,723
2.   Haotl taninlg sg lnh-l                         1,041      493   1,734          126       190      319          95      380      475         2]L        18      425                                                                   1,476    1,31(1    2,777       2,109    1,858   3,967
D.    ABU S11B1L         0 FACILITIES                  538       360      898          44       67      111          56      319       375         9h        17      113                                                                     734       763    I,497       1_0k 9    1.090)   2,139
1.   Ilfea.t-c Exe-
l.a  Aiepoet road                                     229      150       375                                                                      19         3       22                                                                     244       153      397         349       218      567
1.8  Tle o...a_ i_ations                              48       32        8''                                       25      145      170          13         2       15                                                                      86       179      269         123       256      379
2-   Naf-etni e    ..esthloe                          265      178       443          44       67      111          31      174      205          54        12       76                                                                     4,4       431      835         577       616    1,193
F.    Er OPTIAlT rTS1E0IR 034   1,125    1,760                                         68      127      195         185      690      815        17       245       350                                                                     992    2,1295 2.,120         1,417   2.40    1,457
F.    TE,IKIICA_l ASSTSOANCE 6 711T01ES                                                                                                                                          248   1,255   1,503                                          248   1,255   1,503           354   1,793   2L147
1.   T.A. to EAlO                                                                                                                                                              132       788      925,                                      132       788      926         198   1,126    1,314
2.   r.5. to A ITCA                                                                                                                                                             77       264      354                                        70       284      354          IDJ      4u6     5106
3.   T.A. to the  eit, af L.xot                                                                                                                                                 92       127      159                                        32       127      159          46       181      227
4.   I.A  En 0CA0                                                                                                                                                               14        56       70                                        14        56        70         20        9n      ITo
C.    'ROJECT APMITNTSTRATIO.                                                                                                                                                                                  594       76    630           554       76       630        791       109      9C0
LASt GOST                           162       6,851    5,721  12,572           464      918   1,382        1,719    d,411  lo3,1 '       l1cA       :71    2,076          248   1,255   1,5-3          394        76     63n      11,435  17,040   28,495        16,336  24,371  41,707
YJINTINGENCTES:
Ph-si-al inoetase                            790      647   1,437           46        92      138         228   1,129    1,947          1h9       68       237         24       126      150          55         8     63        1,312    2,060    3,372        1,874    2,943    4,817
Price in ase                               3,762    1,Z24   4,992          761       19      457         829   1,807  2?,.            027      137       799        LA 1      241      342         182        15    107        1,803   3,4-14:    9 4,fj      8.290    1,186  13  4
Total enatigenoi*s                        4,558   1,871    6,429           3n7       28       191      Eo7    2.926    3,993            0l       2uoS    1,n36        125       367      492         237       33    270         7,115   5,690  12,805    10,164    8,129  19,293
0Po'El-:. TTTAI                      162      11,409   7,592  19,o0l            771   1,0230    1,977       2,776  11,377  1',,153        2,261       844    ,112          373   1,422    1,995         7A91       1O-9    9o       18,550  22,750  41 ,34)
an OSl,OO                        231       16,299  13,845  27,144         1,101    1.723    2,824       3,966   16,253  2A,219         1.2-c'   1,2076    ,446         533   2,317   7,3in          E,13o      151  1,283                                       26,900   32,500  51,007
Fl;IC;E: FXCILA GE WU'1PUN]ET
Pe_ -t-ge                                            4'u.                            61b.                          8u,4                          27.1                           81.3                          12.1                           55,1






- 6D2
K0PT I +0R1ISM PR00k1T                                                                                   ANNFX fI
Table 2
CONTINIGENCY ALLOWANCES
Inn LOT)'lO)
Land
T. otal,   Loc      Fo1 F i- n   Tolt-    Lal-1   Foreg       Total      L- IcI    -rel                              ig i'o   tal  Total  Local eo  Te,   Total A      oval   F-cnidn   Total         Loa L     oro    TotaL
TOTAL TRONIECT  COST
TT'CLD         CONTIN-EC                       162      6,S v       i      12,572        464       98      L,OJ3'     1, 7191            ., L J      1,437               J           l 7      1,T255    1,51'        55_         7t       630      11,435   1,067   'cH,495
Percentage of total                          101.3       5'.       65.3    120.         33.6      66.4    1(0.11       16.1      83.1    1O6.T           Z s<.   11.     1211.1     16.5       83.5    100.0        67.9      12.1    100.0          40.1      59.9    100,0
CONTINOFNCIES
a,b Allowances oto proiable
price increases:
61)  Percentale                                    36.0      21.4      39.1       56.2      11.4      33.1       4,2       21         26.0      46.0      21.4      36.5      40.7       19.2      22.7       32_G      32.3       32.3        50 7      21.3       33.1
loll Anonot                                        3,7h1     1,224    4,992         261       196       452        129    1,807    2,636          662       132       299       136        241       342         L82        21       TOT       3,103     3,630    9,433
(b) Allow-nces for iniotesecn
il  PercentaT e                                     11.5      11.3      11.4        9.9      16.0      10.0       13.2      L3.2      13.2       11.6      10.7      11.4       9.7       10.0      16.3        6.4      02.3       10. I       11.6      12.1      11.8
1601  Amnevt                                         73,0      617    1,431          4b        32       138        228    1,119    1,347          1639       68        -7        24        126       150          31         6        63       1,312         2,060    3,372
It1 Total cootilnleey allowances
i      _  ene                                       66.5      32.2      36.1       66.1      31.4      43.1       61.4      34.6      39.2       57.3      32.       43.9      52.4       29.2      32.7       32.6      43.4    142.           59.       37.5       46.7
161  Anocol                  4,556     1,971     6,429        2~~~~~~~            ~ ~~~~~~~~01  21 35 .31 ,96    2995       031       20      1,03 6      124         367      492         237        33       270       713       560 1   0
(1611 Percentage of coral                           10.9      29.1    110.0         1.16     41.4    100.4        26.5      73.5    103.1C       80.2      19.8    140.0       25.4       74.6    100.0        87.f       12.2    160.0         53.0      47.0    100.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST
IOCLUTING CONTIOAOlEIEq                        162    11,403      7,592   19,001         771    1,2016    1,977       2,776   11,377   14,153        2,2bb       844    3,112        373      1,622    1,995         791       109        900      18,550   22,750   41,300
Percent-ge ot cots!                          100.0       60.0      40.0    100.0        19.0      61.0    1o0.0        19.6      60,4    100.0        72.9      27.1    100.0       18.7       01.3                 87.9      12.1    100.0          41.09     55.1    100.0
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES:  As petteoae ot tatal proj-f co.  31.T.  as percentge of pro-ert coat w-th-ot rco rice, 44.35.
E-e-ange tate: rss 1.00 = LE 0.73
1973J          1980            1981           1982            1983           146-4
Fvrice ecalatino1(7):                                   L      1       L       F       L      7       L       F       L      F       L       r
Civil oorbs                15.0   7.1    11.0   7.0    14.0   7.0    13.5  7T.           13.0   7.0    13.0   7.0
Fvrnicorc & equipment    10.0   6.5         g.6   6.0      8.0   6.0       0.o   6.o       4.0   6.0      0.7 6.O
Tethoicel  -aietarce        7.0   7.0       7.0   2.0      7.0   2.0       7.0   7.0      7.3   7.0 7.     ,    7T0






EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
PROJJECT IS4PLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
First Year                Second Year                   Third Year               Fourth Year                   Fifth Year
Quarter:    -2    -l         I*    2    3       4      5      6       7      8      9    10     11    12      13    14      15    16      17    18    19    20        21    2
1.  LUXOR   INFRASTRUCTURE   FACILITIES          ____________                              ______      ______         ____________                              __   ___      ______        19     2      21      2
a.  Roads                                           F    PFF   PPP  P71         C    XX   XXX    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   AAA   AMA   MAA    AMA
b.  Ferry landings                                                 P  PPP   TT       C    XXX    XXX   XXX   XXX   AMA   MAA   AM-   MAA
C.  Water distribution !I                                  p FPF PF  TT             C      XXX    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   NAAA   AAA   AAM    AMA
d.  Solid waste                                             F   PPP  T          C      X   XXX    XXX   XXX   VVV   VVV
e.  Electric power                                  P    FFF    PPP  TT        C     XX   XXX   lXXX   XKX   XXX   XXX   M.A   MAA   MA   MAA
f   Telecnrnrnu<zatinns                             F    PPPI   PPP  TT         C           XX    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   YXX    XAA   AAA   AAA   MAA   A
g.  Airport teminal building                        F    PFP    PPP  PPF   PPT   T           C      XX   XXIX   XX  XX XXX        XXX X       xx XXX XX SAA   AAA   A-AA   AAA   A
2.  LUXOR ARCHAEOLOCICAL SITES
a.  Monument works                                  P    PPP   PFP  PPT   T         C X   XXX    XXX   XXIX   XX
b.  Visitor Center                                                              F   PPF   PPP    PPP   TT    C X   XXX   XXX -  XX   XXX   XXX   MAA   MAA   MAA   MAA
3.  LUJXOR TOURID  ~CC0MM0DATIONS
a. Luxor Hoer'
Civil  : eras                               F    PFF   PPP  PPF   PPT   T           C      XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   MAA   MAA   MAA   MAA   MAA
Furniture and equipment                                    L  LLL   PPP   T         C                           ODD           DDD   DOD   DDD   DDV   V/Vv   VVV   VVV   WV
b.  lintel training school                                                                                        '     '      -    ~      .     v          v      s      5
Civil works                                        PP   FFF  PFP   FF1t   I         C      XXX   xx xx xx xx XX XI AAA   AAA   AAA   AAA   a.a,.                        -4-   AAA
Furniture and equ.ipment                                   L  LLT,  PPP   T          C     C                                  ODD   DDD   ODD   DDD   1/1/  VWV    71/V  1//    VVV
4.  ABU SIMBEL FACILITIESI0
a. Infrastructure
Civil works                                 P    PPP   PPP  PPP   Vt          C    XX    XXX   XXX   XXX   YXXX   XAA   MAA   MAA   AM-   A
Equipment                                                LLL  1FF   TT         C                  DDD   DDD   WVV   1/1/   WV   1/1/
b. Nefertari guesthouse
Civil works                                 P    PPP   FPF  PPF   TT           C    XX    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XAA   MAA   MAA   kA              A
Furniture and equipment                                 1ILL  PP    TT         C                         ODD   DDD   DDD   DV/V   VVV   WV    1/1/    V
5.  EGYPTTAN MUSEUM. CAIRO
a.  Master plan                                                        ,      IP      p       p
a.  toivAO (148s n/)T::T   CXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   xxx   )UO(   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   MAA   MAA  MAA
6.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
a.  to EAO (148 m/m)  566   999   999   666    65                    444                         444                         444                          14 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
b.  to MTCA (80 a/rn)                                                  666   778   877   666
C,  to City of Luaor (36 rn/a)                                         333   333   333   333
d.  to ECAG (16 rn/rn)                                                   2   222   222   2
e.  Fellowships (13)                                                                OFF   1FF    PFFP   FFF   VFF   2FF   FFP   PFF
7.  PROJTECT A4TISTSTRATTVON                           QQ    QQQ   <3)0  QQQ   QQQ   QQQ   QQQ    QQQ   QQQ   QQQ   QQQ   QQQ   QQQ   9%Q   99Q   Q10< '0"    9    03O    P5QQ   fQQ   9aMs
/1  Laying of water mains to be coodinated with other utilities.                  LEGEND:  P/PreparatIon  or design, specifications                   V  Lonstrution period
B egio-ing from date of Loan/Credit Agreement                                                   and tendering docuents                             D  Delivery and installation
L  Preparation of furniture and equipment                A  Defect liability period
lists                                             V  Guarantee period
T  Preparation of tendering documents                  1-4  Manmooths of technical assistance
C  Tendering and contraot award                          P  Fellowships
9 Project adm,inistration






- 64 -
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT                                                                      ANNEX II
Table 4
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES
(in LE'O00)
Total Cost                     First Year                   Second Year                    Third Year                    Fourth Year                     Fifth Year
Project Components               Local  Foreign  Total         Local  Foreign  Total          Local  Foreign  Total         Local  Foreign  Total          Local  Foreign  Total          Local  Foreign  Total
1.  LUXOR INFRASTRUCTURE             4,419   7,991  12,410            550       63      613       1,938   4,824   6,762          1,240   2,121   3,361           582       817   1,399          109      166       275
a. Roads                           734      485   1,219            57                57         247      193      440          330      208      538         100       84      184
b. Ferry landings & docks          207      166      373           13                13          72       66      138          115       89      204           7       11        18
c. Water distribution              272      408      68D           22                22         144      230      374           74      178      252          32                32
d. Solid waste                      65      235      300           15                15          47      217      264            3       18       21
e. Electric power supply         1,437   3,812   5,249            346               346         905   3,128   4,033            82      547      629          104      137      241
f. Telecommunications              635   1,634   2,269             55                55         256      647      903         256      647      903           56      258      314           12       82       94
g. Airport terminal building  1,069   1,251   2,320                42       63      105         267      343      610          380     434       814         283      327      610           97       84      181
2.  ARCHAEOLOGICAL AREA                 511      641   1,152           17       24       41          121      163      284         258      312      570           96     127       223          19        15       34
a. West bank works                 137      270      407           13       24       37          62      123      185           62     T23      185
b. West bank visitor center        346      340      686                                         38       12       50          193      186      379          96      127      223           19       15       34
c. East bank works                  28       31       59            4                 4          21       28       49            3        3        6
3.  LUXOR TOURIST ACCOMMODATION   3.977   4,206   8,183               216      117      333         395       239     634        13    1,148   2,182           1.698   2,119   3,817            634      583   1,217
a. Luxor Hntel                   2,501   2,905   5,406            128       79      207         325      192      517         876      850   1,726         1,026   1,535   2,561            146      249      395
b. Hotel training school         1,476   1,301   2,777             88       38      126          70       47      117          158      298     456          672      584   1,256           488      334      822
4.  ABU SIMBEL FACILITIES               734      763   1,497           33       17       50          360      324      684         248      331      579           93       91      184
a. Infrastructure                  330      332      662           13        5       18          79      107      186         188      171      359           50       49       99
b. Nefertari guesthouse            404      431      835           20       12       32         281      217      498           60      160      220          43       42       85
5.  EGYPTIAN MUSEUM. CAIRO              992   2.128   3,120            22       51       73           91      179      270         286      615      901         405       796   1,201          188      487       675
6.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND STUDIES                     248   1,255   1.503             85      388     473          107      502      609          22      146      168           22      146      168           12       73       85
a. T.A. to EAO                     132      788      920           32      175      207          44      248      292           22     146       168          22      146      168           12       73       85
b. T.A. to MTCA                     70      284      354           32      128      160          38      156      194
c. T.A. to City of Luxor            32      127      159           14       57       71          18       70       88
d. T.A. to ECAO                     14       56       70            7       28       35           7       28       35
7.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION              554       76      630          87       59      146          134        7      141         134        7      141          133        3      136          66                 66
EASE COST                       11,435  17,060  28,495          1,010      719   1,729        3,146   6,238   9,384         3,222   4,680   7,902          3,029   4,099   7,128          1,028   1,324   2,352
Contingencies:
Physical (11.87,)             1,312   2,060   3,372           116        87      203         360      753   1,113          370      565      935          348      495      843          118      160      278
Price (33.17,)                5,803   3,630   9,433           379      122       501       1,724   1,185   2,909         1,595   1,013   2,608          1,559      961   2,520           546      349      895
Total contingencies           7,115   5,690  12,805           495       209     704        2,084   1,938   4,022         1,965   1,578   3,543         1,907   1,456   3,363             664      509   1,173
TOTAL COST                      18,550  22,750  41,300         1,505       928   2,433        5,230   8,176  13406                   6,258   11,445        4,936   5,555  10.491          1,69    1,833   3,525






ANNEX lI
- 65 -                        Table 5
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ mi.Llion)
Accumulated        IJndisbursed
Calendar                           Disbursements       Disbursements          Balance
FY         Year              Semester        Amount    %         Amount    %         Amount   %
1979
80
2                                                   32.5  100. n
1980
1            0.4      1.2        0.4     1.2        32.1    R.Q.
81__ _
2            0.8      2.5        1.2     3.7        31.3   96.3
1981
1            1.6      4.9        2.8     8.6        29.7   91.4
82
2            4.2    12.9        7.0    21.5         25.5   78.5
1982
1            5.6    17.3       12.6    38.8         19.9   61.2
83
2            6.2    19.0       18.8    57.8         13.7   42.2
1983
1            4.4    13.6       23.2    71.4          9.3   28.6
84          __
2            4.0    12.3       27.2    83.7          5.3   16.3
1984
1            3.9    12.0       31.1    95.7          1.4    4.3
85
2            1.4     4.3       32.5   100.0          0.0    0.0
1985
/1   Beginning from date of the Credit Agreement



- 66 -
ANNEX III
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
THE MONUMENTS OF THE NILE
Historical Background
1.        Egypt has been termed the "mother of civilization", a civilization
which took root in the Nile Valley and flourished for the astonishingly long
span of some 3,000 years, longer than that of the Greeks or the Romans and
longer than any western civilization has lasted since.
2.        The two great life forces of this ancient civilization were the
River Nile and religion. Both were inextricably intertwined and permeated
the lives of all its peoples.
3.        The Egyptians, throughout their ancient history, revered nature
and in its trees, birds and beasts they saw their gods. Beyond these local
spirits, an explanation was necessary for the other elemens of the world--
the earth, the sun and the stars. All played their part in their religious
beliefs, but none as dramatically as the sun, perhaps not surprising in a land
where it is so powerful.
4.        Egypt's most spectacular monuments are unsurpassed by those of any
other peoples of the ancient world.. Architecturally the Egyptians gave the
world the first buildings in dress(ed stone, invented the column, capital
and cornice and gave birth to the integral stylized sunken or bas-relief
carving that elaborately adorns and decorates the monuments, creating un-
paralleled human interest and aesthetic appeal. In the dark tombs and on
sun drenched temple walls alike, these carvings of figures, scenes and hiero-
glyphics tell us the events and the minutiae of beliefs and of every day life.
Lost to the world until the 19th century, these stone pages of the worlds
largest and most intriguing history book were finally deciphered by the French
scholar and epigraphist Francois Champollion in 1822 after the discovery of
the Rosetta Stone in 1798 which bears an inscription in Greek and two forms
of Egyptian writing.
5.        These monuments are for the most part either tombs or temples.
From the earliest pre-dynastic times and from nearly every period during the
subsequent three thousand years of history these have survived in considerable
numbers, whereas domestic architecture is conspicuous by its absence. Even
past capitals of the importance and size of Memphis and Thebes have virtually
disappeared leaving little trace.
6.        So complete a disappearance can partly be explained by the differ-
ence in materials used, domestic and lesser buildings being of mud brick and
thatch, and partly by the ancient Egyptians' attitude to life. His house on
earth was only for his transitory life on earth, whereas the religious and
funerary works were by contrast built in stone for eternity. It is the latter
which have come to symbolize the architecture of the Nile.



- 67 -
ANNEX III
7.        The dating of the monuments presents some difficulty as the Egyptians
of old did not employ a fixed era but expressed dates in regnal years based on
the ruling king's reign. Modern historians have accepted as universally sound
a system of dating first introduced by Manetto, an Egyptian priest who lived
under the early Ptolemies, which grouped the kings, or Pharaohs, as they are
now known, into thirty-one dynasties or reigning families. The division has
genuine significance, for the role of the Pharaohs was so decisive that the
whole history of Egypt turns on the vicissitudes of the royal authority. It
has also been found convenient to group the dynasties into nine separate
periods corresponding to the generally accepted major changes.
8.        The dynasty of Menes who was the first to successfully forge the
earlier civilization of Upper and Lower Egypt into one homogenous state, and
the succeeding one which covered some 400 years saw Egypt emerge from pre-
historic obscurity. From that point onwards, beginning with the III dynasty,
Egyptian history is divided into three main periods, each separated by inter-
mediate periods when the country's fortunes were temporarily at a low ebb.
Each of the three main periods was characterized by great accomplishments:
The Old Kingdom (ca. 2686-2181 B.C.) was the period during
which the great pyramids were built from the III to the VI
dynasties.
The Middle Kingdom (ca. 2133-1786 B.C.) saw Egypt's political
and economic strength expand and artistic expression reach a
new peak, particularly in the XII dynasty.
The New Kingdom (ca. 1567-1080 B.C.) was the period in which
political power was at its height from the XVIII to the XXI
dynasty during which history's first empire was born.
9.        Subsequently, although the Pharaohs continued to occupy the throne
for another eight centuries, the country was in decline.
Dynasties                Period                 Approx. dates B.C.
I - II                Early Dynasty                 3100 - 2686
III - VI              Old Kingdom                   2686 - 2181
VII - X               First Intermediate            2181 - 2133
XI - XII              Middle Kingdom                2133 - 1786
XIII - XVII           Second Intermediate           1786 - 1567
XVIII - XX            New Kingdom                   1567 - 1080
XXI - XXV             Late New Kingdom              1080 - 664
XXVI                  Saitic Revival                 664 - 525
XXVII - XXXI          Late                           525-332
10.       Egypt's political and social structure was formed early and changed
little over the centuries.  Power was in the hands of the Pharaoh cast in the
double role of king and god at the pinnacle of society.  Authority was dele-
gated to the priests and an elite group of officers.  By the VI dynasty levels
of building, government and administration were reached were not to be sur-
passed in subsequent centuries.



- 68 -
ANNEX III
11.       Today this period can be seen in the masterpieces of the Step
Pyramid at Sakkara near the capital of Memphis, and the three pyramids of
Ciza--probably the greatest tourist attractions of all time.
12.       After the VII and VIII dynasties which historians describe as
a period of internal confusion, the seat of power shifted from Memphis to
Heracleopolis, 55 miles to the south in the area of Fayum during the IX - X
dynasties.
13.       Meanwhile, a powerful family of princes in Thebes, near present
day Luxor, gained strength and ultimately triumphed over the north. They
eastablished the XI dynasty about 2160 B.C.
14.       The XII dynasty saw the ruler Amenemhat II further consolidate
the power of the state both at home and abroad. Under Amenemhat III the
nation reached its greatest periods of power, productivity and artistic
achievement. These Theban rulers also elevated to national prominence
their local god Amon, who was to become one of the great forces in ancient
history. The most massive temple of all time--the Temple of Karnak--was
erected in his honor and here the most spectacular feast of the year was
held at the time of the annual Nile flood to honor him.
15.       The XIII dynasty saw another period of turmoil with fighting between
Upper and Lower Egypt, and a number of petty kingdoms were founded of which
that at Thebes was the largest in the south. In its weakened state the
country was invaded by the Hyksos, the semitic "Shepherd Kings". In spite
of their military advantage they failed to dislodge the Theban regime, which
under the XVIII dynasty drove the invaders out of the country. In doing so,
Ahmose I restored the old boundaries of the Kingdom and created a new order
that his successors further consolidated.
16.       Amenhotep I, some of Ahmose I, Thutmose I and II and then one of the
world's remarkable women, Queen Hatshepsut, all contributed to make Thebes a
metropolis from which, amid great wealth and splendor, the Pharaohs of the
XVIII dynasty ruled their vast domain for 230 years.
17.       The growth of the New Kingdom coincided with the imperial phase of
Egyptian history. The wealth of the empire produced unparalleled architec-
tural activity. For centuries Thebes resounded to the hammers of innumerable
masons, and the Nile flood annually floated down thousands of tons of Aswan
granite to be used in building the temples and monuments. At Karnak alone
there were once at least twenty temples.
18.       During this period Amenhotep III built the temple of Luxor close to
the banks of the Nile just south of the city; he completed the temple to Mut,
the vulture-headed goddess in the great Karnak triad of Amon, Mut and Khonsu,
which had been begun by his ancestors, giving it grace and elegance. At the
time of his death a second court at Luxor was still unfinished and it was
left to the most celebrated of all Egyptian kings, Ramses It, to complete the



- 69 -
ANNEX III
edifice. In doing so he added a new colonnaded court, another massive pylon,
two obelisks and six colossal statues of himself at the northern end of the
temple.
19.       After Amenhotep III's death his son Amenhotep IV, who later became
known as Ikhnaton, openly challenged the priesthood. This religious revolu-
tion resulted in the desecration of images and names of the ancient deities,
especially those relating to Amon who was now renounced in favor of the single
god Aton, the "source of all life". Ikhnaton finally left Thebes, transfer-
ring the royal residence to Tel el Amana, some 200 miles south of Cairo.
Although built on a gigantic scale, only a few stones remain today. Ikhnaton's
successor, the boy king Tutankhamon, transferred the royal residence back to
Thebes and, under pressure from the priests, restored the worship of Amon.
Ironically his chief claim to fame is his tomb, the only one of the Pharaohs'
tombs on the west bank of Thebes to be found intact. Because of the wealt'h of
his treasures, which have been exhibited throughout the world, he now ranks
as one of the most illustrious figures of Egyptian history.
20.       The start of the XIX dynasty saw the continuation of the work of
rebuilding and renovating the temples of Amon, to restore the reputation of
the "King of Gods". Seti I combined restoration with new building over a
wide area. At Karnak he continued building the huge Hypostyle Hall begun by
his father Ramses I and Horemheb of the previous dynasty, and on the west
bank at Thebes his large tomb decorated with scenes depicting the nocturnal
voyage of the solar boat is one of the most beautiful.
21.       At Abydos he built a temple to the glory of Osiris, the decorations
of which are ranked among the finest achievements of Egyptian art, as also are
those of his mortuary temple on the west bank at Thebes.
22.       It is, however, his son Ramses II who must be ranked as one of the
great builders of ancient Egypt. He was responsible for a prodigious building
program during the 67 years of his reign. He covered Egypt from one end to
the other with monuments and temples; among them the completion of the great
Hypostyle Hall at Karnak, the Rameseum, the funerary temple to himself and
the god Amon on the west bank at Thebes, his great temple at Abydos next to
that of his father, several structures at Memphis and the most renowned of
all, the temple at Abu Simbel, where four colossal statues of Ramses himself
adorn the entrance, and nearby the smaller Queen's temple is dedicated to the
best known of his many wives, Queen Nefertari, whose splendid tomb is one of
the jewels of Thebes.
23.       Despite his great feats of conquest, his colossal statues and impos-
ing temples, this age of Ramses probably marks the beginning of the decline of
the age of the Pharaohs. From this period onwards until the conquest of Egypt
by Alexander the Great the country gradually ceased to be a major power.



- 70 -
ANNEX III
24.       Ptolemy, the general whom Alexander left to govern Egypt, estab-
lished a new dynasty, the XXXI, that ruled for nearly three centuries.
Although Egypt subsequently became one of the richest provinces of the Roman
Empire, its governors adopted Egyptian customs and declared themselves direct
heirs of the ancient Pharaohs. Egyptian culture survived for some further
centuries, though increasingly subject to Hellenistic and Roman influences.
25.       Ironically, some of Egypt's finest monuments date from this period.
It saw the building of great temples whose excellent state of preservation
gives a fuller idea of the practices of Egyptian religion than those of
earlier periods. Almost two centuries (from 237 to 57 B.C.), went to the
building and decorating of the huge temple in honor of Horus, the dynastic
falcon god, at Edfu. At Dendera Hathor was honored with a grandiose temple on
which are inscribed the names of the last Ptolemies and of Roman rulers down
to Nero. At Kom Ombo, the troops quartered there erected a double temple
dedicated to the crocodile god Sobek and the falcon god Haroeris. The temples
at Thebes were enlarged and majestic pylons were built at Karnak. The island
of Philae was covered with a superb group of temples which were not completed
until the 2nd century A.D.
Pharaonic Egypt and Tourism
26.       Over two thousand years ago, the Greek historian Herodotus wrote his
famous "guide book", and Greek tourists were visiting Egypt and marvelling
at its monumental architecture. Judging by centuries of old graffiti, its
monuments of the past have been a major attraction for visitors ever since,
but it was not until the 19th century that Thomas Cook, and his indefatigable
son, popularized Egypt as a major tourist destination.
27.       The main centers of tourism have traditionally been Cairo and its
environs, Luxor in Upper Egypt and still further south the famed winter resort
of Aswan. Although the majority of the most famous monuments of Pharaonic
Egypt are accessible from these centers, there are literally thousands of other
sites of interest strung along the Nile valley from Memphis to Abu Simbel.
The Principal Monuments
28.       Cairo and its Environs.  One cannot mention Cairo and antiquities
in the same breath without referring to the world famous Egyptian Museum,
famous not so much for its architecture or presentation, but rather for its
vast collection of priceless exhibits unsurpassed anywhere in the world.
A visit here is a "must" for anyone wishing to understand something of the
history and the complexity of Egyptology.
29.       The Great Pyramids of Giza, the most famous of Egyptian antiquities,
defy time and mortality. Built in the IV dynasty, they are attributed to
Cheops, Chephren and Mykerinos and together with the Sphinx are still the
outstanding tourist attraction in the neighborhood of Cairo.



- 71 -
ANNEX III
30.       South of Giza for fifty miles along the fringe of the Western
Desert lie over three dozen other pyramiids in various states of preservation.
The most famous and oldest of all is the stepped pyramid of Sakkara. This
pyramid was the focal point of the vast Eunerary complex of King Zoser in the
28th century B.C. Here in the desert riise the first ashular walls known to
man, and the earliest engaged columns, some of them with beautiful proto-doric
mouldings, support the earliest known capitals. Here, a hundred years before
the pyramids of Giza, formal architecturie began. The Necropolis contains a
great many other antiquities, notably the Tomb of Ti, an important figure at
the Royal Court in a late period of the VI dynasty. The wall decorations
are among the earliest examples of "true to life" portraiture and have been
extremely valuable to scholars in studying the life and customs of the ancient
Egyptians. There is also the Serapeum, the most curious tomb of the whole
Necropolis, dedicated to Apis, the ox, which was mumified in exactly the same
ceremonial way as a human being.
31.       Further south still at Dahshur are four more large pyramids of which
the "Rhomboidal" or "Bent" pyramid is best known. This was erected by Sneferu,
father of Cheops, and is the only pyramid which still has its original stone
facing almost intact.
32.       As Sakkara is the "City of the Dead", Memphis was the "City of the
Living". Very little now exists of the capital city of Lower Egypt under
the kings of the Old Kingdom, but down to about 350 A.D. it was still of some
importance when the Emperor Theodosius decreed the destruction of its ancient
temples. Now little remains other than ;an enormous recumbent figure of Ramses
II and an alabaster sphinx from the XVIII dynasty, standing on the spot where
it was excavated. To the north of Memphis are the pyramids of Abusir built
in the V dynasty and a little further north still is the sun obelisk or sun
sanctuary built by the kings of the V dynasty for sacrificial rituals to the
gods at Abu Gurab. Asyut, the provincial capital and the most important town
in Upper Egypt, is the starting point for visits to the rock hewn tombs of Abu
Qurgas and Tell el Amarna, the royal townl of the heretic king Amenhotep IV
(Ikhnaton). On the outskirts of Asyut itself in the desert mountains are the
remarkable rock cut tombs of the Nome princes.
33.       A little less than a hundred miles south of Asyut are the temples of
Seti I and Ramses II at Abydos. Abydos is said to be the site of the ancient
city of This or Thinis, one of the earliest settlements of man in the Nile
Valley, and in the early days a place of pilgrimage. The temple of Seti I,
which was finished by his Ramses II, is noted for the quality of its artworlc
and is thought by some to be the most outstanding temple in all Egypt.
34.       Luxor and Karnak are perhaps the greatest of all centers of anti-
quity. They have been justly described as "the largest open air museum in t-he
world". On the east bank, the site of ancient Thebes contains the ruins of
the most gigantic monuments, statues, and temples in all Egypt, representing
in its temples of Luxor and Karnak the greatest artistic accomplishments of
the ancient civilization from the XIII to XXX dynasties. Across the Nile on



- 72 -
ANNEX III
the west bank lies the Necropolis with the tombs and mortuary Lemples oi.l Le
Pharaohs of the XVIII, IXX and XX dynasties. In the Valley of the Kings no
less than 62 tombs have been discovered, of which 17 can be visited. Over 80
tombs have been identified in the Valley of the Queens, of which only 14 have
so far been named. Of these that of Queen Nefertari is the most magnificent,
but those of Amon-Hir-Khopshef with its very fine murals, and of Queen Titi
are also of great beauty and importance. There are also something over 450
tombs in the group known as the Tombs of the Nobles. Although some 400 are
accessible, only about 60 are worth visiting by tourists.
35.       At the foot of the Theban Hills, Queen Hatshepsut built her mortuary
temple at Deir el Bahri, in the 15th century B.C., in a form exhibiting an
unprecedented break with architectural tradition. Although many of the wall
drawings and carvings were later defaced by her stepson Tuthmosis III, the
chapel dedicated to the goddess Hathor is still well preserved. Other notable
temples are the Rameseum of Ramses II, one of the largest in Egypt; Medinet
Habu, south of the Valley of the Kinigs, built by Ramses III, a complex of
temples second only in importance architecturally to Karnak; the Temple of
Seti I, now in poor condition; and the Colossi of Memnon which once guarded
the entrance to the mortuary temple of Amenhotep III, the stones of which
disappeared many years ago and were probably re-used in later building.
36.       Other important sites are accessible from Luxor, notably the well
preserved Temple of Hathor at Denderah built in the late Ptolemaic period,
Abydos, already mentioned, and Esna, 30 miles south of Luxor. where there is
the small Temple of Khnum, Ptolemaic in origin. Still further south and about
half way to Aswan, in Edfu, is one of the finest examples cf Ptolemaic art in
Egypt, the practically intact Temple of Horus.
37.       Aswan is famed all over Egypt for its granite quarries where the
stones for the huge statues and stelae were cut. Apart from the rock hewn
tombs in the cliff's face on the west bank of the Nile which date from about
2300 B.C., most of the antiquities are from the XXX dynasty, and later Roman
and Ptolemaic periods. On the west bank overlooking the new High Dam is the
reconstructed Temple of Kalabsha and lower downstream are the Temples of
Philae, now in the closing stages of being salvaged from the rising waters
of the Nile and reconstructed on the island of Agilka.
38.       At Kom Ombo, 30 miles to the north, historically a strategic loca-
tion on the desert route to Nubia and Ethiopia, is the unique Temple of Kom
Ombo, dedicated to two gods, the left half to Haroeric and the right half to
Sobek.
39.       Abu Simbel.  The famous Nu'bian temples of Ramses II at Abu Simbel
located some 300 km south of Aswan, today stand in all their ancient majesty
on a plateau above the waters of Lake Nasser. The gigantic figures of the
Pharaoh at the temple entrance and the splendid bas-reliefs decorating the
walls of the temple make this one of the most outstanding archaeological sites
in all of Egypt.



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
MARKET PROSPECTS
1.        In order to accommodate anticipated increased arrivals to Egypt,
new hotels, motels and apartments will be required, along with the renovation
and/or extension of many existing ones. Assuming that: (a) 90% of the non-
Arab visitors and 10% (up to 1980) and 15% (after 1981) of the Arab visitors
will stay in 3-, 4- and 5- star hotels; (b) the average length of stay of
visitors will be six days until 1980, increasing to seven days after 1985
(due to more capacity, opening up of new sites and new vacation areas); and
(c) overall room occupancies will be 85% from 1980 to 1984, then 80% to 1989
and 75% thereafter with a double occupancy factor of 1.7 persons per room;
the total number of rooms required would be as follows:
Table 1: PROJECTED DEVELOPMENT IN ARRIVALS AND ACCOMMODATION
REQUIREMENTS IN 3-, 4- AND 5-STAR HOTELS:  1981-1990
1977      1981        1985       1990
Total foreign arrivals                       1,004     1,519       1,973      2,419
Number of guests in 3-, 4- and 5-star
hotels                                       524       869       1,212      1,519
Number of overnight stays in 3-, 4-
and 5-star hotels                         3,144      5,214       8,484    10,633
Requisite number of rooms                      -       9,885      17,090    22,850
2.        Taking into account the current hotel development program being
implemented and the plans of various investors, the projected expansion of
lodging capacity in 3-, 4- and 5-star facilities is outlined in Table 2.
The table shows that by as early as 1981, Egypt may face a capacity surplus,
primarily in Cairo. Such a surplus would lead to stronger competition among
hoteliers, and since visitor arrivals may not increase much faster than pro-
jected above, there will be a reduction in hotel occupancy rates and in the
prices which hoteliers would be able to charge (if price controls were removed).
The effect of this increased supply would reduce the profitability of the
hotel sector and provide a signal for a reduction in build-up of capacity,
especially in Cairo.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Table 2: PROJECTED DEVELOPMENT IN LODGING CAPACITY IN THE 3-, 4- AND
5-STAR CATEGORIES (ACCORDING TO REGIONS - IN ROOMS)
Total   Growth   Total   Growth    Total
Region or Subregion                      1977   1976-80   1980    1981-85   1985
Nile Valley
Luxor                                   714       100       814       800    1,614
Aswan (w. Lake Nasser)                  650       200       850       300    1,150
Others (Minya, Abydos, Edfu)             -         -         -        550     . 550
Nile Cruisers                           350       400       750       250    1,000
Cairo                                   3,696    3,000    6,696    4,000   10,696
Red Sea                                   -         250       250       950    1,200
Alexandria                                550       120       670       300       970
Mediterranean Coast                       -          -         -        300       300
Oasis                                     -          40        40        40        80
Canal Zone                                -          80        80       500       580
Prob. room capacity                     5,960    4,190   10,150    7,990   18,140
Requisite room capacity                   -       3,925    9,885    7,205   17,090
Capacity gap (-)                          - /1
or surplus (+)                                               +265             +1,050
/1   The size of the excess demand for hotel rooms in Cairo in 1977 is not
known.



ANNEX I'V
- 75 -
Table 3: LUXOR: PROJECTED BUILDUP OF DEMAND AND
ACCOMMODATION CAPACITY - 1977-1990
Estimate              Forecast
1977            1985        1990
Accommodation capacity (beds)
Higher category hotels                1,380            3,49C      4,360
Other hotels                            880           1,680       2,040
Nile cruisers /1                        276              800      1,000
Total                              2,536           5,970       7,400
Bednights ('000)
Higher category hotels                  291              834      1,049
Other hotels                             96              180        226
Nile cruisers                             60             194        248
Total                                447           1,208       1,518
Visitors by type ('000) /2
Higher category hotels                  129              370        466
Other hotels                             19               36         44
Nile cruisers                             20              65         83
Day visitors                              15              43         53
Total                                183             514         646
Occupancy rates (Z)
Higher category hotels                 57.8             65.5       65.9
Other hotels                           29.9            29.3        29.5
Nile cruisers                          59.6            65.9        66.5
Average                             48.3            55.4        56.1
/1   Average capacity available in cruisers moored in Luxor during the season.
/2   Assuming length of stay of 2.25 nights by visitors in higher category
hotels, 5 nights by visitors in other hotels, and 3 nights in
cruisers.



- 76 -
ANNEX V
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL TABLES
Luxor Hotel
1.        The existing Luxor Hotel (73 rooms) is expected to continue to
operate during construction of the new accommodation facilities which will
open in 1982. After the new facilities (136 rooms) are completed and opened,
the renovation and expansion of the old building to 80 rooms is to be under-
taken. While the hotcl will generate income from its operations during
project implementation, it is expected that it will start full operation with
216 rooms in 1983.
2.        Revenue projections for the Luxor Hotel are based on the following
assumptions:
(a)  Room Occupancy:  During the construction of the new
accommodation facilities, the average annual room occu-
pancy rate of the existing hotel is estimated to be 66%
in 1979, increasing to 70% in 1981. During the renovation
and expansion of the old building, the occupancy rate of
the new accommodation facilities (136 rooms) is estimated
to be 60% in 1982. The average room occupancy rate of the
216-room hotel (including the expansion and renovation to
80 rooms and the 136 newly constructed rooms) is assumed
to remain at 60% in 1983, rising to 70% by 1985. Double
occupancy is assumed to be 1.9 guests per room throughout
the operating period.
(b) Room Rates: The estimated daily room rate is based on
average, net receipts after sales tax and discounts, for
each occupied hotel room. In constant 1978 prices, the
average room rate is estimated to be LE 12 for operation
of the existing hotel over the 1980/81 period, increasing
to LE 14 for operation of the new accommodations with 136
rooms in 1982, and to LE 18 for full operation with 216
rooms from 1984 on. These room rates are adjusted for
inflation over the 1979-86 period.
(c) Sales: Estimated sales are based on net receipts after
sales tax and discounts. In constant 1978 prices, the
average net receipt per guest is estimated to be LE 14.35
in 1980/81, increasing to LE 18.71 in 1983, and to LE 21.05
from 1984 on. These receipts are distributed according to
the following estimated composition: 44%-45% from rooms,
43%-44% from food, 9%-10% from miscellaneous sales.



- 77 -
ANNEX V
3.        Operating costs and expenses are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Direct Costs: Cost of sales are estimated as follows:
33% for food costs, 40%-45% for beverage costs and 50%
for other costs.
(b)  Payroll:  The payroll costs, including fringe benefits,
are assumed at LE 65 per employee per month in 1978 prices.
These are subsequently inflated. The number of employees
is estimated to be 170 in 1979--81, increasing to 300 em-
ployees in 1982 and to 475 from 1983 on.
(c)  Other Operating Costs:  Other departmental expenses are
estimated to be in the range of 9%-10% of total net sales.
Overhead costs are estimated at 2%-4% of sales for admin-
istration, 1%-2% for promotion, 5%-7% for heat, light and
power, and 3%-4% for repairs and maintenance.
(d) Management Fees: Management fees are estimated at 3% of
total net sales as the basic fee, and 7% on profits after
depreciation and before interest as the incentive fee. The
total management fee represents about 12% of gross operating
profits.
4.        Capital costs are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Annual depreciation rates are assumed at 2% for buildings,
and 5%-10% for fixtures, furniture and equipment. Pre-
opening expenses, including interest during construction,
are amortized over ten years. The average depreciation
rate for all project costs is 4.9%.
(b) Interest on the proceeds of the IDA Credit is assumed at 10%
per annum.
5.        Balance sheet assumptions are based on:
(a) Existing assets will be handed over to the new unit as an
equity contribution, at a nominal valuation of LE 760,000.
(b)  Total project costs are estimated at LE 9.96 million, includ-
ing new assets at LE 8.05 million, capitalized interest at
LE 950,000, and preopening expenses at LE 200,000.
(c)  Minimum cash balance of one month operating expenses.
(d) Accounts receivable of three months net sales.
(e) Inventories at the equivalent of three months operational
and maintenance costs.



- 78 -
ANNEX V
(f)  Accounts payable at three to four months operational
supplies and maintenance costs.
(g) Other current liabilities from operations include one-
and-one-half months payroll costs and overhead expenses,
excluding maintenance costs.
Nefertari Guesthouse
6.         The existing guesthouse (20 rooms) is expected to continue to
operate during construction of the new accommodation facilities which will
be undertaken in 1981. After completion and opening of the new facilities
(44 rooms), the renovation of the old building is to be undertaken. While
the Nefertari guesthouse will generate income from its operation during
project implementation, it is expected that it will start operation with
64 rooms in 1982.
7.         Revenue projections for the guesthouse are based on the following
assumptions:
(a) Room Occupancy: During construction of the new accommoda-
tion facilities, the average annual room occupancy rate of
the existing guesthouse is estimated to be 30% in 1979,
increasing to 35% in 1980. During the renovation of the
old building, the occupancy rate of the new accommodation
facilities with 44 rooms is projected to remain at 35% in
1981. The occupancy rate of the 64-room guesthouse (com-
prising the renovated 20 rooms and the 44 newly constructed
rooms) is estimated to be 40% in 1982, rising to 50% in
1984 and to 60% from 1986 on. A double occupancy factor
of 1.95 guests per room is assumed throughout the operating
period.
(b) Room Rates: The estimated daily room rate is based on
average net receipts, after sales tax and discounts, for
each occupied room. In constant 1978 prices, the average
room rate is estimated to be LE 8 for operation of the
existing facilities, in 1979/80, increasing to LE 10 for
operation of the new fac:ilities (44 rooms) in 1981, and
to LE 12 for full operation with 64 rooms from 1982 on.
These room rates are adjusted for inflation over the
1979-86 period.
(c)  Sales:  Estimated sales are based on net receipts after sales
tax and discount. In constant 1978 prices, the average net
receipt per guest is est:Lmated to be LE 11.72 in 1979/80,
increasing to LE 12.82 in 1981 and to LE 15.38 from 1982 on.
These receipts are distriLbuted according to the following
estimated composition: -35%-40% from room sales, 50%-53%
from food, 8%-10% from beverages, and 1%-2% from miscella-
neous sales.



- 79 -
ANNEX V
8.        Operating costs and expenses are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Direct Costs: Costs of sales are estimated at 35% for food,
40%-45% for beverages and 50% for other costs.
(b) Payroll: Average payroll costs, including fringe benefits,
are assumed at LE 65 per employee per month in constant 1978
prices. The number of employees is estimated to be 20 in
1979/80, increasing to 44 in 1981 and to 75 from 1982 on.
(c) Other Operating Costs: Other departmental expenses are
estimated to be in the range of 10%-12% of total net sales.
Overhead costs are estimated at 5%-7% for administration,
1%-2% for promotion, 5%-6% for heat, light and power, and
2%-3% for repairs and maintenance.
(d) Management Fees: Management fees are estimated at 3% of
total net sales as the basic fee, and 7% on profits after
depreciation and before interest as the incentive fee. The
total management fee represents about 12% of gross operating
profits.
9.        Capital costs are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Annual depreciation rates are assumed at 1.5% for civil works,
4% for building, 5%-10% for fixtures, furnishings and equipment.
Preopening expenses, including interest during construction,
are amortized over ten years. The average depreciation rate
for all project costs is 5.5%.
(b) Interest on the proceeds of the IDA Credit has been assumed
at 10% per annum.
10.       Balance sheets assumptions are based on:
(a) Existing assets will be handed over to the new unit as an
equity contribution, at a nominal valuation of LE 160,000.
(b) Total project costs are estimated at LE 1.31 million, in-
cluding new assets at LE 1.02 million, capitalized interest
at LE 73,000 and preopening expenses at LE 50,000.
(c) Minimum cash balance of one month operating expenses.
(d) Accounts receivable at three months net sales.
(e) Inventories at the equivalent of three months operational
supplies and maintenance costs.



- 80 -
ANNEX V
(f) Accounts payable at three to four months operational
supplies and maintenance costs.
(g) Other current liabilities from operations include one-
and-one-half months payroll costs and overhead expenses,
excluding maintenance costs.
Training School and Practice Hotel Component
11.       Revenue projections are based on the following:
(a) Occupancy: It is expected that the hotel will achieve a room
occupancy rate of 60% in 1983, increasing to 70% by 1985, with
a double occupancy factor of 1.8 guests per room.
(b) Room Rate: The estimated daily room rate is based on average
net receipts, after saLes tax and discounts, for each occupied
room. The average room rate is estimated to be LE 10 in con-
stant 1978 prices and is adjusted for inflation to LE 14 in
1983, LE 15.73 in 1985 and further to LE 17.67 in 1987.
(c) Sales: Estimated sales are based on net receipts after sales
tax and discounts and are distributed according to the follow-
ing composition: 45% from room sales, 45% from food sales, 8%
from beverage sales and 2% from miscellaneous sales.
12.       Operating costs and expenses are based on the following:
(a)  Direct Costs:  Costs of respective sales are estimated at 40%
for food, 45% for beverages and 50% for other costs.
(b)  Payroll:  Assuming that most of the employees will be trainees,
average payroll costs, including fringe benefits, are estimated
at LE 32.50 per employee per month in constant 1978 prices,
one-half of the payroll estimated for the Luxor Hotel employees.
The number of employees is estimated to be 90.
(c) Other Operating Costs: Other departmental expenses are
estimated to be 10% of total net sales. Overhead costs are
estimated at 3% for adm,inistration, 1% for promotion, 5% for
heat, light and power, and 3% for repairs and maintenance.
Water Supply, Sewerage and Solid Waste Disposal Components
13.       The projection of water supply, sewerage and solid waste disposal
operations in the town of Luxor is based on population forecasts. From
the 1976 census data for the urban population of Luxor (47,000) and of the
surrounding villages on the east bank (some 35,000), a growth rate of 2.9%
per annum is projected. The combined population to be served is thus expected
to increase to 123,000. The additional demand for services by tourists is
based on the projected build-up of hotel capacity.



- 81 -
ANNEX V
14.       Per capita water consumption for the urban population has been
estimated at 100 litres per capita per diem (1/cd) in 1978, rising slowly
to 115 I/cd in 1983 and then more rapidly with the new supply sources to
145 1/cd by 1988 a d thereafter. For served semi-urban and rural populations,
the average water consumption has been estimated at 50 1/cd in 1978, rising to
55 1/cd in 1983 and 60 1/cd in 1988. Most of the water consumed by the semi-
urban and rural populations is expected to be served through standpipes; each
standpipe is assumed to serve 105 persons. With respect to water consumption
for hotel and commercial usage, a constant consumption rate of 1,500 liters
per room is estimated. No separate water consumption norms are set for sea-
sonal workers (including hotels), or for occasional fire fighting purposes.
15.       Average daily municipal sewerage flow is established at 100% of
water consumption by urban, tourist, commercial and municipal users on the
basis that the groundwater infiltration to the sewerage collector balances
non-potable consumption (gardening, etc.). The main assumption made in
the forecasts is the application of water and sewerage charges which would
place the burden of the extension of services on both existing and prospec-
tive hotels to be developed in the town of Luxor, The average water rate is
assumed3to be 50 milliemes per cubic meter (mm/m ) in 1979, increasing to
75 mm/m  in 1983 and to 125 mm/m  in 1988.  The water charges3for residential
uses are proposed to remain at their 5urrent level of 25 mm/m3 over the
1979/82 period, increasing to 35 mm/m  in 1983 and to 45 mm/m  from 1988
onwaid.  The water charges for hotel and commercial usel would average 115
mm/m  during the 1979/82 piriod, increasing to 145 mm/m  in 1983/85, 190 mm/m
in 1986/87 and to 265 mm/m from 1988 onward; water rates for commercial usage
would be 4.6 to 5.9 times higher than those for residential usage over the
1979/88 period.
16.       The forecasts also assume that most of the water to semi-urban and
rural populations in Luxor would be provided through standpipes which would
be paid for by the Municipality or the Government at a flat rate of LE 53 per
standpipe per annum over the 1979/82 period, increasing to LE 74 in 1983/85
and LE 95 in 1986/88. In addition, the water operation is expected to cover
costs of the connections through charges, ranging from LE 100 to LE 200 per
connection for urban residences and from LE 250 to LE 800 for hotels and
commercial users. Other income would come from meter rentals.
17.       The new sewerage system in Luxor is expected to be in operation
starting from 1983. The project cost is estimated to be about LE 7.7 millicin,
which would be financed by the Government. It is proposed, however, that the
Municipality should eventually recover the investment costs through charges
for sewerage service to the beneficiaries.   While no sewerage charges exist
in Egypt at present, it is expected that the total sewerage costs, both operat-
ing and capital costs, as applied to hotels and commercial establishments in
Luxor could be borne through earnings from their operations. The forecasts
assume that an appropriite rate for sewerage service to hotels and commerciaLi
users would be 300 mm/m of water consumed from 1983, increasing to 350 mm/mi



- 82 -
ANNEX V
from 1988 on. The charges to hotels for water and sewerage services on this
basis would be within an acceptable range of costs, i.e., 1.5%-2% of gross
hotel sales. In addition, the Municipality is expected to charge for sewerage
connections at a rate of LE 50 per connection in 1983/85, increasing to LE 65
from 1986 on, which would be applicable to urban residences as well as to
hotels and commercial establishments.
18.       Operating costs for the water supply, sewerage and solid waste dis-
posal are based on a reasonable allocation of personnel expenses, chemicals,
electricity and maintenance costs. The following breakdown illustrates the
composition of operating costs in 1983, the initial year of full operations
for the above project components.
OPERATING COSTS IN 1983 (LE'000)
Waste
Water   Sewerage    Disposal       Total
Payroll                                  100        40           60          200
Electricity and Fuel                      34        15            5           54
Chemicals                                 15         6            3           24
Maintenance                                98      163           11          272
Administration                             33       28            3           64
Total                                    280       252           82          614
Operating costs are based on the following assumptions:
(a) direct employment by thbe unit rising from a 1978 base of
100 staff for water supply only to 250 in 1983; 125 for
water supply, 50 for sewerage service and 75 for waste
disposal, at an average payroll cost of LE 67 per employee
per month;
(b) electricity charges on an annual consumption of 800,000 Kwh
in 1978 rising to 1,360,000 Kwh for water supply and 600,000
Kwh for sewerage in 1983 at an average tariff rate of 25
mm/Kwh;
(c)  chemicals at 2.6 mm/m  of water treated for water supply;
(d) annual maintenance costs at an average rate of 2.2% of the
total assets; and



- 83 -
ANNEX V
(e) administration costs at 8% of total revenues for water and
sewerage operations, and 2% for waste disposal operation.
19.       Depreciation has been charged on a straight-line basis assuming
the following rates for major categories of assets:
Civil works                       1.5%
Equipment:
Water supply                  5.0%
Sewerage                      5.0%
Waste disposal               15.0%
Pipelines                         2.0%
Annual average                    2.7%
20.       Other capital costs are based on the following assumptions:
(a)  interest during construction will be capitalized and
amortized over ten years; and
(b)  interest on the proceeds of the IDA Credit has been
assumed at 8% per annum.
21.       Balance sheet assumptions are based on:
(a)  the balance sheet of the Luxor Municipality reflects the
total investment in water supp:Ly, sewerage and waste disposal
facilities, including the separately allocated portion of
capital expenditures on the new water treatment plant for an
estimated total of LE 2 million;
(b)  it has been assumed that the Municipality would maintain
adequate cash balance from 1981 on and build up an investment
fund for future capital expenditures. This fund would reach
a level of about LE 2.35 million, roughly equivalent to 25%
of the new investment under the project during the 1979-82
period;
(c)  it has been assumed that the minimum cash balance would be at
one-and-one-half months operating expenses and that accounts
receivable would increase in proportion with sales revenue
representing about four months of billing outstanding. The
net balance of inventories is assumed to be at the equivalent
of three months operational supplies and maintenance costs; and
(d)  it has been assumed that accounts payable would be at the
equivalent of four months operating costs, excluding payroll
costs. Other current liabilities include accrued expenses,
estimated at the equivalent of one-and-one-half months payroll
costs, and also current maturities from long-term loans.



- 84 -
ANNEX V'
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                                         Table  l
Luxor Hotel - Pro Forma Income Statement, 1979-87
Calendar Year                                       1979        1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1385       1986       1987
Operating Year                                I-                                         -          1          2          3          4 -
Number of rooms                                        73         73         73        136        216        216         216        216        216
Room occupancy (2)                                    66          68         70         60'        60          65         70         70         70
Average room rate (LE)  1/                         10.20       11.20      12.00      14.00      16.00      18.00       18.00      18.00      18.00
Average room rate (LE)  2|                         11.00       12.96      13.93      17.39      21.17      25.24       26.77      28.37      30.06
--------------------------------- (LE '000) --------------------------------------
Gross Sales
Room                                               193        235         260        518      1,001      1,293      1,477      1,566      1,659
Food                                               193        235         260        495        957      1,236      1,412      1,496       1,582
Beverages                                           40         48          53        115        223        287        328        348         368
Other                                               14          16         17         23         44         57         66          69         78
Total Sales                                      440        534        590      1,151       2,225      2,873      3,283      3,479      3,687
Cost & Expenses
Direct costs
Food                                              64         78         86         163        316        408        466        494        522
Beverages                                         18         22         24         46          89        115        131        139        147
Other                                              7          8          9          12         22         29         33         35         39
Subtotal                                        89        108        119        221        427         552        630        668        708
Payroll & related expenses                         114         123        13Z        237        355        377        399        423        449
Other departmental expenses                         40         48          53        115        223        287        328        348        369
Total Costs & Expenses                            243   2 7W           T    57      3      ET0G3        TC         71        F3         T737&
GROSS INCOME:                                         197       255        286         578      1,220      1,657      1,926      2,040      2,161
Overhead Expenses
Administration                                       9          11         18         46         89        115        131         139        147
Promotion                                            4          5          6          23         45         57         66         69         74
Heat, light & power                                 22         27          30        69         133        172        V97        302        221
Repair & maintenance                                18         21          24         35         67         86         98        104         111
Total Overhead                                    53         64         78        573        733         47         47        3T         3
HOUSE PROFIT:                                        144        191         208        405        886      1,227      1,434      lj519      1,608
Other Income                                         -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -
GROSS OPERATING PROFIT:                              144        191         208        405        886      1,227      1,434      1,519      1,608
(Less) Depreciation                                 11         11         11         146        405        405        405        405        405
Amortization 3/                               -          -          -        115        115        115         115        115        115
Total Depreciation & Amortization                 11         11         11         261        520        520        520        520        520
Profit before Management Fees & Interest             133        180         197        144        366        707        914        999      1,088
(Less) Management Fee - Basic                        -          -           -          -         67         86         98        104        111
Incentive                                     -          -          -          _         I         49         64          70         76
Total Management Fees                              -          -          -           -                   1 35-       4         T74        387
Profit before Interest                               133        180         197        144        275        572         752        825        901
(Less) Interest                                      -          -           -          -          -        479        457        432        405
Profit before Tax                                    133         180        197        144        273          93        295        393        496
Tax
NET PROFIT (or LOSS).:                               533        180         j97        144        535          93        295        393        496
Cunulative Profit                                    133        311         S          631?       927 7      TU2=    1,33T    1,707          2,2N
GOP/Sales (2)                                       32.7       35.8       35.3         35.2       39.8      42,7       43.7        43.7       43,6
Net Profit/Sales (2)                                30.2       33.7        33.4        12.5       1223       3.2         9.0       11.3       13,5
Profit before Interest/Net Fixed Assets (2)    24.7            14.2         5.2         1,9        3.4       7.5        10.4       12.1       14.1
Net Profit/Equity (77) 57.5                                    13.2         7.0         3,0        5.3       1,8         5.7        7,6        9,6
I/ Net receipt in constant 1978 prices.
2/  Net receipt in current prices, 8% increase between 1978/79; 7.5% between 1979/80; 7% between 1980/81; 6.5% between 1981/82,
and 67, thereafter.
3/ Amortization of pre-opening expenses, including interest during construction.



- 85 -
ANNEX V
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                                     Table  2
Luxor Hotel - Pro Forma Balance Sheet, 1979-87
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                                       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
Operating Year                                        -          -          -          -          1          2          3          4          5
ASSETS:
Current Assets
Cash                                              63       215        434        752      1.283      1,354       2,136      2,7-4      3,394
Accounts receivable                             110         134        148        288       556         718        821        870        922
Inventories                                      37         44         49         93        179        231         264       280         297
Other                                              -          -          -          -          -          -          _          _          _
Total Current Assets                          2L0        413        b31      1,133      2,T01      2.494       3,191      1,864     4,bl3
Fixed Assets
Land                                            210        210        210         210        210        210        210        210        210
Buildings and FF & E                            550      1,290      3,805      7,916      8,600      8,600      8,600      8,600      8,600
(Less) Depreciation                             (11)       (22)    _ (33)       (179)      (584)      (989)   (1,394)   (1,799)    (2,204)
Net Buildings and FF & E                        539      1,268      3,772      7,737      8,016      7,611      7,206      6,801      6,396
Total Fixed Assets                            749      1,478      3,982      7,947      8,226      7,821      7,416      7,011      6,606
Other Assets
Deferred expenses                                  -        69        252        714      1,149      1,149      1,149      1,149      1,149
(Less) Amortization                              _          _           -       (15)       (230)      (345)      (460)      (575       (690)
Net Other Assets                                -         69        252        599        919        804        689        574        459
TOTAL ASSETS                                      959      1,960      4,865       9,679    11,163    11,119    11,296    11,449    11,678
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH:
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                                 45         55         62         130        179        252       370        393        417
Short-term debts                                   -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Other                                             21         23         26         55         98        112        122        130        137
Current liabilities from operation             66         78         88        185        277        364        492        523        554
Current maturities of long-term loans             -                      -          -       224         246        271        298        328
Total Current Liabilities                      66         78         88        185        501        610        763        821        882
Long-term Debt                                       -        207     1,463      3,984      4,565      4,319      4,048       3,750      3,422
Total Liabilities                                66        285      1,551      4,169      5,066      4,929      4,811      4,571      4,304
Net Worth
Equity capital                                  760      1,362      2,804      4.856      5,170      5,170      5,170      5,170      5,170
Retained earnings                               133        '318        510       654         927      1,020      1,315      1,708      2,204
Total Net Worth                               89-      1,675      3. 14      57076      C6r        $70        W7T9               6    ,87874
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH                        959      1,960      4,865      9,679    11,163    14,119    t1,296    11,449    11,678
Current Ratio                                        3.2        5.3        7.2        6.1       4.0         4.1        4.2        4.7         5.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                                      -      11:89      31:69      42;58    43:57        41:59      38:62      35:65      32:68



- 86 -
ANNEX V
EGYE'T  TOURISM PROJECT                                                Table  3
Luxor Hotel - Pro Forma Cash Flow Statement, 1979-87
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                             1979      198C1      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
Operating Year                              -          -         -          -          1          2         3          4          5
SOURCES:
Operations
Net income                             133       18(        197        144        273        93        295        393       496
Depreciation                           11         11         11       146        405        405       405        405        405
Amortization  1!                         -         -          -        115       115        115        115        115       115
Total Operations                                                    405        793   6 13            815       913      1,016
Financing
Equity subscription                     -        602'    1,442      2,052        314          -          -         -          _
Long-term loans                          -       207      1,256     2,521        805          -          -          -         _
Short-term financing                               -          -          -         -
Total Financing                                809     2,698      4,573      1,119          -          -         -          _
TOTAL SOURCES                           144      1,000      2,906     4,978      1,912        613        815        913     1,016
APPLICATIONS:
Investment in Fixed Assets
Land and site works                      -        20        226       202         27          -          -          -         _
Buildings                               -        482      1,350     1,341        205          -          -         -          -
FF & E                                   -         -        785     2,302        400          -          -          -         _
Professional services                    -       238        154       266         52          -          -          -         _
Total Fixed Assets                    -        740     2,515      4,111        684          -          -         -          -
Investment in Other Assets
Tnterest during construction            -         lS9       133       362        435          -          -         -          _
Other                                    -        5c        50        100          -         -          -          -
Total Other Assets                    -         69'       183       462        435          -          -         -          -
Long-term Debt Repayments                  -         -          -          -          -       224        246        271       298
Changes in Working Capital
Increase in current assets            210        203        218       502        885        476       697        673        749
Increase in current liabilities        66         12         10        97         92         87        128        31         31
Net Increase in Working Capital   144          191        208       405        793        389       569        642        718
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                      144.      1,000    2,906      4,,978     1,912        613       815        913      1,016
Debt Service Coverage                        -         -          -          -          -       1.6        1.8       1.9        2.0
1/ Amortization of pre-opening expenses, including interest during construction.



- 87 -
ANNEX V
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                                   Table  4
Nefertari Guesthouse - Pro Forma Income Statement, 1978-86
Calendar Year                                         1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Operating Year                                          -         -         -         -         1         2         3         4         5
Number of rooms                                         20        20        20        44        64        64        64        64        64
Room occupancy (%)                                      25        30        35        35        40        45        50        55        60
Average room rate (LE)  1/                            8.00      8.00      8.00    10.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00
Average room rate (LE)  2/                            8.00      8.60      9.28    12.40    15.84    16.80    17.76    18.84    20.04
------------------------------ (LE '000) -----------------------------------
Gross Sales
Room                                                  15        19        24        70       148       177       207       242       281
Food                                                  23        29        36        88       185       222       259       303       352
Beverages                                              4         5         7        14        30        35        41        48        56
Other                                                  1         1         2         3         7         9        11        12        14
Total Sales                                         43        54        69       175       370       443       518       605      703
Cost & Expenses
Direct costs
Food                                                 8        10        13        31        65        78        91       106       123
Beverages                                            2         2         3         6        12        14        18        22        25
Other                                                1         1         1         2         3         5         6         6         7
Subtotal                                          11       13        17        39        80        97       115       134       155
Payroll & related expenses                            12        13        14        42        77        82        86        92        98
Other departmental expenses                            5         6         8        18        37        44        52        61        70
Total Costs & Expenses                              28        32        39        99       194       223      253       267       323
GROSS INCOME:                                           15        22        30        76       176       220       265       318       380
Overhead Expenses
Administration                                         3         3         4         9        19        22        26        30        35
Promotion                                              1         1         2         4         7         9        11        12        14
Heat, light & power                                    2         2         3        11        22        27        31        36        42
Repair & maintenance                                   1         2         2         5        11        13        16        18        21
Total Overhead                                       7         8        11        29                  7          4 
HOUSE PROFIT:                                            8        14        19        47       117       149       181       222       268
Other income                                           -         -         -         -
GROSS OPERATING PROFIT:                                  8        14        19        50       117       149       181       222       268
(Less) Depreciation                                   16        16        16        16        67        67        67        67       67
Amortization 3'                                 -        -         -          -       16        16        16        16        16
Total Depreciation & Amortization                   16        16        16        16        83        83        83       83        83
Profit before Management Fees & Interest                (8)       (2)        3        34        34        65        98       139       185
(Less) Management fees - basic                         -         -         -         -        11        13        16       18        21
Incentive                                      -         -         -         -         2         5         7        10        13
Total Management Fees                                -         -         -         -        13        18        23       28        34
Profit before Interest                                  (8)       (2)        3        34        21        48        75       111       151
(Less) Interest                                        -         -         -         -        49       47        44        42        39
Profit before Tax                                       (8)       (2)        3        34       (28)        1        31        68       112
Tax                                                    -         -         -         -         -         -
NET PROFIT (or LOSS):                                   (8)       (2l        3        34       (28)        1        31        68       112
Cumulative Profit                                       (8)      (10)       (7)       27        (1)        -        31        99       211
GOP/Sales (%)                                         18.6      25.9      27.5      26.9      31.6      33.6      34.9      36.7      38.1
Net Profit/Sales (%)                                 (18.6)     (3.7)      4.3      19.4      (7.6)      0.2       6.0      11.2      15.9
Profit before Interest/Net Fixed Assets (%)           (0.7)    (0.2)       0.3       3.0       2.0       4.9       8.1      13.0      19.2
Net Profit/Equity (%)                                     -        -         -       4.1      (3.4)      0.1       3.8       8.3      13.7
1/  Net receipt in constant 1978 prices.
2/  Net receipt in current prices, 8% increase between 1978/79; 7.57/ between 1979/80; 7% between 1980/81; 6.57'. between 1981/82,
and 67/. thereafter.
3/ Amortization of pre-opening expenses, including interest during construction.



- 88 -
ANNEX V
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                             Table  5
Nefertari Guesthouse - Pro Forma Balance Sheet, 1978-86
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                                1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     1986
Operating Year                                  -        -         -         -         1         2        3         4         5
ASSETS:
Current Assets
Cash                                        1         2         9       10        30        77       151      255       403
Accounts receivable                        11        14        17       44        93       111       130       154      176
Inventories                                 4         5         7       16        32        39        46       53        62
Total Current Assets                     16        21       33        70       155       227      327       462       641
Fixed Assets
Land                                        -         -        48       58        58        58        58       58        58
Buildings and FF & E                      160       200       873    1,129    1,129    1,129    1,129    1,129    1,129
(Less) Depreciation                       (16)      (32)     (48)      (64)    (131)    (198)    (265)    (332)    (399)
Total Net Fixed Assets                  144       168      873    1,123    1,056         989      922       855       788
Other Assets
Deferred expenses                           -        10       48       124       124       124       124      124       124
(Less) Amortization                         -         -         -        -       (16)      (32)     (48)      (64)      (80)
Net Other Assets                          -        10       48       12,4      108        92        76       60        44
TOTAL ASSETS                                160       199       954    1,317    1,319    1,308    1,325    1,377    1,473
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH:
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                            6         7         9       22        44        53        63       73        84
Other current liabilities                   2         2         3        8        16        18        19       21        24
Current liabilities from operations    8            9       12        30        60        71       82        94       108
Current maturities of long-term loans    -            -                  -        23        25        28       30        33
Total Current Liabilities                 8         9       12        30        83        96      110       124       141
Long-term Debt                                -         -       312      491       468       443       415      385       352
Total Liabilities                         8         9      324       521       551       539      525       509       493
Net Worth
Equity capital                            160       200      637       769       769       769       769      769       769
Retained earnings                          (8)      (10)       (7)      27       ii)         -        31       99       211
Total Net Worth                         152       190      630       796       768       769      800       868       980
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH               160       199       954    1,317    1,319    1,308    1,325    1,377    1,473
Current Ratio                                 2.0       2.3       2.8       2.3      1.9       2.4       3.0       3.7      4.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                           0:100    0:100    34:66    39:61    38:62    37:63    35,:65    33:67    31:69



- 89 -
ANNEX v
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                               Table  6
Nefertari Guesthouse - Pro Forma Cash Flow Statement, 1978-86
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                               1978      1979       1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985       1986
Operating Year                                -          -         -          -          1          2         3          4          5
SOURCES:
Operations
Net income                                (8)       (2)         3         34        (28)        1         31         68       112
Depreciation                             16         16         16         16        67         67         67        67         67
Amortization 1/                           _-                    -          -         16        16         16         16        16
Total Operations                        8         14         19        50         55         84        114       151        195
Financing
Equity subscription                       -         40        437        132         -          -          -          -         _
Long-term loans                           _          -        312        179          -        _           -         _           _
Total Financing                         -         40        749       311          -          -          -          -         -
TOTAL SOURCES                                8        54        768        361         55        84        114        151       195
APPLICATIONS:
Investment in Fixed Assets
Land and site works                        -         -         48         10          -         -          -          -          -
Buildings                                  -         -        500         98          -         -          -          -          -
FF & E                                     -         -        134        150          -         -          -          -          _
Professional services                      -        40         39          8          -        _          _          _          _
Total Fixed Assets                      -         40        721       266          -          -
Investment in Other Assets
Interest during construction               -         -         28         45          -         -          -          -          _
Other                                      -        10         10         31          -         -          -          -          _
Total Other Assets                      -         10         38        76          -          -          -         -          -
Long-term Debt Repayments                    -          -         -          -          -        23         25         28         30
Changes in Working Capital
Increase in current assets               16          5         12         37        85         72        100        135       179
Increase in current liabilities           8          1          3         18        30         11         11         12        14
Net Increase in Working Capital         8          4          9         19        55         61         89       123        165
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           8        54        768        361        55         84        114        151       195
Debt Service Coverage                          -          -         -          -          -       1.8        2.2        2.7        3.3
1/   Amortization of pre-opening expenses, including interest during construction.



90                                   ANNEX V
Table 7
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT
Luxor Hotel Training - Pro Forma Income Statement, 1983-87
Calendar Year                                    1983       1984       1985       1986        1987
Operating Year                                     1          2           3          4          5
Number of rooms                                    65         65         65          65         65
Room occtupancy (%)                                60         65         70         70          70
Average room rate (LE)  1/                      10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00
Average room rate (LE)  2/                      14.00      14.84      15.73      16.67      17.67
---------------- (LE '000) ------------------
Gross Sales
Room                                            199        229        261        277        293
Food                                            199        229        261        277        293
Beverages                                        35         41         46         49         52
Other                                            10         10         12         13          13
Total Sales                                  443         509        580        616        651
Costs & Expenses
Direct costs
Food                                          80          92        104        110        117
Beverages                                      16         18         21         22         23
*Other                                          5           5          6          7         7
Subtotal                                   101        115        131         139        147
Payroll & related expenses                       49         52         55         58         62
Other departmental expenses                      44         51         58         62         65
Total Costs & Expenses                       194         218        244        259        274
Gross Income                                      249        291        336        357        377
Overhead Expenses
Administration                                   13         15         17         18          19
Promotion                                         4          5          6          6          7
Heat, light & power                              22         25         29         31         32
Repair & maintenance                             13         15         17         18          19
Total Overhead                                 52         60         69         73         77
Gross Operating Profit                            197        231        267        284        300
1/ Net 'eceint in constant 1978 prices.
2/  Net receint in current orices, 8% increase between 1978/79; 7.57. between 1979/80
77. between 1980/81- 6.5% between 1981/82, and 67. thereafter.



- 91 -
ANNEX V
Table   8
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT
Luxor Water Supply, Sewerage & Solid Waste Disposal - Pro Forma Consolidated Income Statement, 1979-88
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                                1979      1980      1981       1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       1988
REVENUES:
Water supply                                191       260       278       305        379       385       423       559       599       758
Sewerage service                              -         -         -       405       400       420        670       670       628       628
Solid waste disposal service                _          _         95       103       158        161       164       222       226       231
Total Revenues                           191        260       373       813       937       966    1,257      1,451    1,453       1,617
OPERATING COSTS:
Payroll                                      64        67       116       169       200        215       233       252       268       336
Electricity and fuel                         24        26        32        48        54         66        80        95       112       126
Chemicals                                    10        11        14        22        24         25        29        31        35        39
Maintenance                                  53        56        70       227        272       288       305       323       343       390
Administration                               27        28        32        61        64         68        72        77        81        87
Total Operating Costs                    178        188       264       527       614       662       719       778        839       978
GROSS INCOME:                                  13        72       109       286       323        304       538       673       614       639
(Less) Depreciation                         42        45         93       298       336       355       377       399       424        477
Amortization 1/                       -         -         -          7        17        17        17        17        17        17
Total Depreciation & Amortization         42        45         93       305       353       372       394       416        441       494
Profit before Interest                        (29)       27        16        (19)      (30)      (68)      144       257       173       145
Interest                                      -         -         -         -        90         88        86        83        81        78
NET INCOME:                                   ig29)      27         16       (19)     (120)     (156)       58       174        912        67
Cumulative                                    (29)       (2)       14         (5)    (125)      (281)     (223)      749)       43        110
Income after depreciation/net fixed
assets (%)                                 (0.5)      0.3       0.2       (0.1)    (0.1)     (0.4)       1.3       2.2       1.4       1.2
1/ Amortization of interest capitalized during construction.



- 92 -
ANNEX V
Table 9
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT
Luxor Water Supply, Sewerage & Solid Waste Disposal - Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet, 1979-88
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                               1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986        1987       1988
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                     (27)        23        105        276         456        637         970      1,471      1,976      2,465
Accounts receivable                       64         87        124         271        309        322         418        483        483         534
Other                                     22         23         29          78         91         99         108        117        127         144
Total Current Assets                   59        133         258        625         856      1,058      1,496      2,071       2,586      3,143
Fixed Assets
Existing & new properties             2,120      2,247       2,382      2,525    12,291    13,028    13,810    14,638    15,517    16,448
Work in progress                      4,237       6,138      8,082      9,070           -           -          -          -           -          -
(Less) Depreciation                     (42)        (87)   -(180)        (478)       (814)    (1.169)    (1,546     (1.945)    (2,369)   (2.846)
Net Fixed Assets                   6,315      8,298      10,284    11,117      11,477      11,859    12,264    12,693    13,148    13,602
Other Assets
Deferred expenses                          1         22         91        174         174        174         174        174        174        174
(Less) Amortization                       -                               _ _7       J24)        (1)        (58)        (75)       (92)      (109)
Net Other Assets                        1         22         91        167         150        133        116          99         82         65
TOTAL ASSETS                            6.375       8,453    10o633    11.909         12.483   13.050    13,876        14,863    15,816      16,810
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH:
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                          38         40         49         124        143        154         167        181        196         220
Other current liabilities                  8          8         15          21         25         27          29         32         33         42
Current liabilities from
operations                           46         48          64        145        168         181        196        213         229        262
Current maturities from
long-term loans                       -           -          -         25         27          29         32         34          37         40
Total Current Liabilities              46         48          64        170         195        210        228         247        266        302
Long-Term Debt                              18        285        929      1,103       1,076      1.047       1,015        981         944        904
Total Liabilities                      64        333         993      1,273      1,271       1,257      1,243      1,228       1,210      1,206
Net Worth
Equity capital                        6,220      7,875       9,244    10,116    10,116    10,116         10,116     10,116    10,116    10,116
Retained earnings                        (29)        (2)        14          (5)      (125)      (281)      (223)        (49)        43         110
Capital gains from revaluation
of assets                             120         247        382        525      1,221       1,958      2.740      3,568      4,447       5,378
Total Net Worth                     6,311      8,120      9,640      10,636     11,212      11,793     12,633    13,635    14,606    15,604
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH           6,375      8.453    10.633       11.909      12.483     13.050    13,876    14,863    15,816         16,810
Current Ratio                                1.3        2.8        4.0         3.7        4.4         5.0        6.6        8.4        9.7        10.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                          -:100       3:97       9:91       10:90      10:90       9:91        9:91       9:91       9:91        8:92



- 93 -
ANNEX V
EGYPT:  TOIJRISM PROJECT                                                       Table  10
Luxor Water Supply, Sewerage & Solid Waste Disposal - Pro Forma Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, 1979-88
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                                     1979       1980       1981.      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
SOURCES:
Operations
Net income                                    (29)        27         16        (19)       (120)      (156)        58        174         92         67
Depreciation and amortization                  42         45         9:        305         353        372        394        416        441        494
Total Operations                             13         72        10S        286        233        216        452        590         513        561
Financing
Government equity contribution              4,220      1,655      1,369        872                      -                     -          -          -
Long-term loans                                 18       267        644!        199         _          _          _           -          _          _
Total Financing                           4,238      1,922      2,0151     1,071           -          -          -          -          -          -
TOTAL SOURCES                                 4,251      1,994      212,       1,357         233        216        452        590        533        561
APPLICATIONS:
Investment in Fixed Assets
Water supply                                   37        251        444         188          -          -          -          -          -          -
Sewerage system                             4,200      1,500      1,20(t       800
Solid waste disposal                            -        150        30t           -          -          -
Total Fixed Assets                        4,237      1,901      1,944        988           -          -          -          -          _          _
tnterest during construction                    1         21         69          83          -          -          -          -          _
Total Investment                          4,238      1,922      2,012      1,071           -          -          -          -                     -
Long-term  Debt Repayment                          -          -          -          -         25         27         29         32         34         37
Changes in Working Capital
Increase in current assets                     59         74        125        367         231        202        438        575        515        557
Increase in current liabilities                46          2         16         81          23         13         15         17        _16         33
Net Increase in Working Capital              13         72        109        286        20S        189        423         5358       499        524
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                            4.251      1,994      2.122      1,357         233        216        452        590        533        561
Debt Service Coverage                                -          -          -          -        2.8        2.6        4.7        5.8        5.3        4.8



- 94 -
ANNEX V
ESYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                                                  Table 11
Luxor Water Supply - Pro Forma Income Statement, 1979-88
Calendar Year                                     1979         1980         1981         1982        1983         1984         1985         1986        1987         1988
Operating Year                                       -            -           -            1            2            3           4            5            6            7
Water Produced (million  a3                         5.0         5.1          5.1          5.4          5.7          5.8         6.5          6.9          7.3         7.6
Water Sold (million m3)
Urban residences                                 1.8          1.9          2.0          2.1         2.2          2.3          2.3          2.5         2.7          3.0
Hotels & commercial establishments               0.5          0.8          0.9          1.1         1.2          1.2          1.6          1.6         1.7          1.7
Subtotal                                       2.3          2.7         2.9          3.2          3.4          3.5         3.9          4.1          4.4         4.7
Municipal services                               0.8          0.7          0.8          0.8         0.9          0.9          1.0          1.1          1.1         1.0
Total Water Sold                               3.1          3.4         3.7          4.0          4.3          4.4         4.9          5.2          5.5         5,7
Unaccounted for water (3)                            38           32         27            26           25           25          25           25           25           25
Average Water Rates (as/m3)                          50           50          50           50           75           75          75          100          100         125
Residential use                                   25           25           25           25          35           35           35          45           45           45
Hotel & commercial use                           115          115          115          115         145          145          145          190         190.         265
Number of Standpipes                                307         334          359          369          385         395          406          421         436          447
Number of Connections
Urban residences                               6,590        7,240       7,875        8,550        8,740        8,880       9,040        9,175        9,325       9,495
Hotels & commercial establishments                40           45           50           55          65           75           85          95          105          115
Total Connections                           6,630        7,285        7,925        8,605       8,805        8,955        9,125        9,270       9,430        9,610
-------------------- --------------------------  (LE '000)  ---------------------------------------------
REVENUES
Water sales                                      115          135          145          160         255          263          293         410          440          588
MNnicipality service                               16          18           19           20           28          29           30           40          41           42
Connection charges                                25           66           67           71          37           29           32          35           38           42
Meter rental & other income                        35          41           47           54          59           64           68           74          80           86
Total Revenues                                 191          260         278          305          379          385         423          559          599         758
OPERATING COSTS
Payroll                                           64           67           71           76         100          107          113          119         127          161
Electricity                                       24           26           27          29           34           40          47           54           63           72
Chemicals                                         10           11           12          14           15           16           19          21           24           27
Maintenance                                       53           56           60           63          98          104          110          116         123          158
Administration                                    27           28           30           31          33           35           37          40           42           45
Total Operating Costs                          178          188         200          213          280         302          326          350          379         463
GROSS INCOME                                         13          72           78           92           99          83           97          209         220          295
(Less) Depreciation                               42           45          48           50           73           77          82           87           92         125
Amortization  1/                            -           -            -            -          10           10           10           10          10           10
Total Depreciation & Amortization               42           45          48           50           83          87           92           97          102         135
Profit before Interest                              (29)         27           30           42           16          (4)           5          112         118          160
Interest                                            -           -            -            -          53           52           51          49           48           46
NET INCOME                                          (29)         27           30           42          (37)        (56)         (46)          63           70         114
Cumulative                                          (29)          (2)         28           70           33         (23)         (69)          (6)         64          178
Income after Depreciation/Net
Fined Assets (%)                                (1.4)         1.1          1.0          1.3         0.8          0.2          0.4         3.2          3.2          4.1
Net Income/Equity Capital (3)                      (1.4)        1.3          1.3          1.8         (1.6)       (2.4)        (2.0)         2.7         3.0          4.8
I/ Amortization of interest capitalized during construction.



- 9E5 -
ANNEX V
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                                          Table 12
Luxor Water Supply - Pro Forma Balance Sheet, 1979-88
(LE '0CC)
Calendar Year                                   1979        1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       19         1987       1988
Operating Year                                     -          -          -          1          2          3          4                      6          7
ASSETS:
Current Assets
Cash                                         (27)        23         97        182         196        211        230        329        471        655
Accounts receivable                           64         87         93         102        126        128        141        186        199        252
Inventories                                   22         23         25          27         37         40         44         48         53         64
Total Current Assets                        59        133        215        311        359        379        415         563        723        971
Fixed Assets                                            I
Existing and new properties                2,120      2,247      2,382      2,525      3,651      3,871      4,103      4,349      4,610      4,887
Work in progress                              37        288         732        920          -          -          -          -          -
(Less) Depreciation                          (42)       (87)      (135)      (185)      (258)      (335)      (417)       (504)      (596)      (721)
Net Fixed Assets                         2,115      2,448      2,979      3,260      3,393      3,536      3,686      3,845      4,014      4,166
Other Assets
Deferred expenses                              1         15         52        101         101        101        101        101        101        101
(Less) Amortization                            -          -          -          -        (10)       (20)        (30)       (40)       (50)       (60)
Net Other Assets                             1         15         52        101         91          81         71         61         51         41
TOTAL ASSETS                                 2,175      2,596      3,246      3,672      3,843      3,996      4,17        4,469      4,788      5,178
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH:
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                              38         40         43          46         60         65         71         77         84        101
Other current liabilities                      8          8           9         10         13         13         14         15         16         20
Current liabilities from operations         46         48         52         56         73         78         85          92        100        121
Current maturities from long-tenm  loans    -             -           -         15         16         17         19         20         22         24
Total Current Liabilities                   46         48         52         71         89         95         104        112        122        145
Long-Term  Debt                                 18        188        500        650         634        617        598        578        556        532
Total Liabilities                           64        236        552        721        723        712        702        690        678         677
Net Worth
Equity capital                             2,020      2,115      2,284      2,356      2,356      2,356      2,356       2,356      2,356      2,356
Retained earnings                            (29)         (2)       28          70         33        (23)       (69)        (6)        64        178
Capital gains from revaluation
of assets                                  120        247        382        525        731        951      1,183      1,429      1,690       1,967
Total Net Worth                          2,111      2,360      2,694      2,951      3,120      3,284      3,470      3,779      4,110      4,507
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET WORTH                2,175      2,596      3,246      3.672      3,843        3,996     4,172      4,469      4,788      5,178
Current Ratio                                     1.3        2.8        4.1        4.4        4.0        4.0        4.0        5.0        6.5        6.7
Debt/Equity Ratio                               1:99       8:92       18:82      22:78      21:79      21:79      20:80      20:80      19:81      18:82



- 96 -
ANNEK V
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT                                                            Table 13
Luxor Water Supply - Pro Forma Cash Flow Statement, 1979-88
(LE '000)
Calendar Year                                     1979        1980       1981       1982        1983       1984       1985        1986       1987       1988
Operating Year                                       -          -           -          1          2          3           4          5          6           7
SOURCES:
Operations
Net income                                     (29)         27         30         42         (37)       (56)       (46)        63          70        114
Depreciation                                    42         45          48         50         73          77         82         87          92        125
Amortization                                     -           -          -          -           -         10         10         10          10         10
Total Operations                              13         72          78         92         36          31         46        160        172        249
Financing
Government equity contribution                  20         95         169         72           -          -          -          -           -          -
Long-term loans                                 18         170        312        165
Total Financing                               38        265        481         237          -           -          -          -          _           _
TOTAL SOURCES                                     51         337        559        329          36         31         46        160         172        249
APPLICATIONS:
Investment in Fixed Assets
Civil works                                      -        112         201         89
Equipment                                        -        135         239         99          -           -          _          _           _          _
Engineering services                            37          4           4          -
Total Fixed Assets                            37        251        444         188
Interest during construction                     1          14         37         49         _            -         _          _          _           _
Total Investment                              38        265        481         237          -           -          -
Long-term Debkt Repayment                           -          -          -           -         15         16         17          19         20         22
Changes in Working Capital
Incresase in current assets                     59         74          82         96         48          20         36        148        160         248
Increase in current liabilities                 46           2          4          4         17           5          7          7           8         21
Net Increase in Working Capital               13         72          78         92         31          15         29        141        152         227
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                51         337        559        329          46         31         46        it0         172        249
Debt Service Coverage                                 -          -           -          -        1.5        1.2        1.4         3.1        3.2        4.3
1/ Amortization of interest capitalized during construction.



- 97 -
ANNEX V
Table 14
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT
Luxor Sewerage - Pro Forma Tncome Statement, 1982-88
Calendar Year                                       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
Operating Year                                         -         1          2          3          4          5          6
Average rate for sewerage
service (mm/m3)                                    300        300        300        325        325        325        350
Water consumption by hotels & commercial
establishments (million in3)                       1.1        1.2        1.2        1.6        1.6        1.7        1.7
Number of connections                              1,500      2,300      3,500      5,500      7,500      8,500      9,000
- - - - -   (LE '000)  ______
REVENUES:
Surcharges                                         330        360        360        520        520        553        595
Connection charges                                  75         40         60        150        150         75         33
Total Revenues                                   405        400        420        670        670       628        628
OPERATING COSTS:
Payroll                                             38         40         43         45         48         51         80
Electricity                                         14         15         20         27         35         42         47
Chemicals                                            5          6          6          7          7          8          8
Maintenance                                        154        163        173        183        194        206        218
Administration                                      27         28         30         32         34         36         38
Total Operating Costs                            238        252        272        294        318        343       391
GROSS INCOME                                         167        148        148        376        352        285        237
(Less) Depreciation                                200        212        225        238        2S2        268       284
NET INCOME                                           (33)       (64)       (77)       138        100         17        (47)
Cumulative                .(33)                                 r97)      (174)       (36)       64         81          34



- 98 -
ANNEX V
Table 15
EGYPT   TOURISM PROJECT
Luxor Solid Waste Disposal - Pro Forma Income Statement, 1981-88
Calendar Year                                     1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      1986      1987      1988
Operating Year                                      1          2         3         4         5         6         7         8
Average rate for SWD service
(LE per connection p.a.)                          12        12        18        18        18        24        24         24
Number of connections/bouseholds                 7,925    8,605    8,805    8,995    9,125    9,270    9,430    9,610
--  (LE '000)  -
REVENUES                                            95       103       158        161       164       222       226       231
OPERATING COSTS
Payroll                                           45        55        60        65         75       85         90        95
Fuel                                               5         5         5         6          6         6         7         7
Chemicals                                          2         3         3         3          3         3         3         4
Maintenance                                       10        10         11        11        12        13        14        14
Administration                                     2         3         3         3          3         3         3         4
Total Operating Costs                           64        76        82        88        99       110       117       124
CROSS INCOME                                        31        27        76         73        65       112       109       107
(Less) Depreciation                               45        48        51        53        57        60        64        68
Amortizaticn  1,                           -          7         7         7         7         7         7         7
Total Depreciation & Amortization              45         55        58        60        64        67        71        75
Profit before Interest                             (14)      (28)        18        13         1        45        38        32
Interest                                           -         -        37        36        35         34        33        32
NET INCOME                                         (14)      (28)       (19)      (23)      (34)       11         5         -
1/  Amortizationi of interest capitalized during conistructioni.



Z' ~  ~        ~        ~       ~~~                                     0'                                      0 D <r 1       D S
afO                0 C . On a  ~            H             0. n                 0-                 0   .orroaHD        .* O Cro>.01 o0   Zrr .   -A
'A D      400 a     or fS   oon-rO    0 S  -   HZWi Oo S~  FwHr oO-           0 S  - C HrO_ l wcoaftHOa Z rt-        0 n 0
000       0-O, o-~-0ti r                          00 r0 rt'  Q -. -'               0 a0   n                  r0 .  _- r      r 
n-f r      00             <0< -t          0 S<Q                  '00             0 o00                "ioX          -   H  .rXS1      tr   .naS o nr  
n'-         o0 0 a          '-0         .            0o   a-"             0             <0000           '-00           0 
r1           boS         0       a       0          -    5 0            at-,0                            n -at 
-O           -O'-b' 0p,                 -           Ot-'                 0         0      0n-O              00 
o'S           0 O t         o    ot                  Sf    0        1 <0            0     fOtt,            joo         11
r.             -   'O             0  o      ro        '0  wn >o          o-   O~  a         o      '1       w        0.  __
o,- 0o0                                                      t           n0-                        ,           "    '
0'-     _                                      W                            0                                       a 9..
2 ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 10 
o--                                                                                   I _WW   
0     O |' O0   - W0UmO O0O|ob Su|nOO                                                            OE    NS     
5 I s  O O000-                                 108 O-O 0-               0  wNo0  0-100000                     0 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ut
.1
0                                                                                                                               <0
0    o~~~~   0   ,   H  ~~~~~~~0                   0-   00                                -~~~~~~
"~~~~~~0 0 0 0                                                         0000100000                            '0-   0O
| >S  _19        sw _O v   ~N ~|  ~~            gls W0D    nS I |  _U1 n             Io 
r ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     0      00   000                   000 ,cO o0- 1O      00-'- =_  'n.Un.'> l nW  ~  
i-l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-                   w                   _-                 _a  -o                           l            r0 _{
<S J                                                                                                                             H    l I w_  
<50  '-0   _                 00Ul    -| '00>1 I 000-                0I.n    Lo0-1_  D0|                   D
W n  :   @.'  10  00  <0J             0-0        1001000                     000        C0C-0                           _    _0-DWW  : HDwo
an ~~~O                          000    n -onWEnDOlWWO  00              0-<,        0-00_D-0D01o00  Qo f oN  
W E M s _ _ { O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10 |                                   0   00 D                                    010 0z6v uw ok            ,,0__   Z wo~9S>|>9g|
0   00       100         0-             00 0 0 0 0                            '0000-O010000  WDs>r; o_D_M ok   >o>e
10-0       00          01               _-0 _        01       0               -00 _         000-000
O~~~~~~~ I a                                                               _l          ^ I__a'_DDvo vlsMo-s
0000    _z  0    1-0 01               OH    01D0 0 S00S0001000-000_ nXDO  s_     D   _w_                      
>   .,                                                                   w _ _ 91- *; * - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
O    D  W a; I    _   _    uz    bx _ I  r      ;s o w   *,^ ns <Jr | N <           l    C
9 s tD I g Ul W_ W  gS C   - _ lo  D g M  H o ISm _ < l
0   10                                    0                                 0 oH            0 
100             -A0 0 0 0 1 o0-0 0 1 0 1 0  
o0-A0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 001  10-000    10000                        00          0001



- 100 -                                    ANNEX VI
Table 2
RECEIPTS AND COSTS OF DIFFERENT FORMS OF ACCOMMODATION (1978 PRIC_,
Other        Nile
Higher Category Hotels            Hotels    Cruisers
Average for existing
hotels            Average
with the   without the  for new
project       project    hotels
Investment cost, LE per bed             13,2004=       n.a.      22,700  3,000        30,000
Net receipts, LE per guest night            19 /d       18           32       6          32.5
Variable operating cost, LE
per guest night                            5.2         4        10.5        .5          5
Fixed operating cost, LE per
bed available per year                 1,670       1,400        1,900    200         1,650
(of which payroll)                       (800)       (800)        (900)   (75)         (600)
Operating profit/b                       1,679       2,432        4,948    402         5,376
Less management fees (15% GOP)/b           252         365          742    n.a.          804
Plus service charges and tips (5%)
and sales taxes (7%)/b                   553         591          932      79          996
Economic operating profit /b             1,980       2,658        5,138    481         5,568
Annual replacement costs /c                  3        n.a.            3       3            5
n.a.  Not applicable
/a    Cost per bed of renovating and expanding the Luxor Hotel is LE 14,000 and
estimated cost of the expansion of the ETAP (which will include
renovation of rooms previously belonging to the Savoy) is around LE 12,500.
/b    LE per year per bed installed after initial start-up period, assuming bed
occupancy rate of 66.5% for higher category hotels (75% without the project),
30% for other hotels, and 70% for cruisers.
/c    Percent of initial investment cost.
Id    This is higher than the net receipts in the without the project case due to
(a) the increase in prices charged by the Luxor hotel as its category is raised
under the project,
(b) the expansion of the relatively high-priced ETAP hotel, and
(c) the reduction in capacity of the lower-priced Savoy Hotel.



ANNEX VI
-0 lOl -Table 3
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
VISITOR EXPENDITURES OUTSIDE HOTELS, AND COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH THEM (1978 PRICES)
Incremental.
Expenditures per  Breakdown of Costs %               Investment
Other          GOP   per LE of
Tourist              Cost incl.            Incremental
Tourist    Day    Payroll   replacements             Sales
Activity                                 LE         LE        z           %          %         %
Taxis and buses                         2.0       1.0        .2          .45       .35         2
Horse-drawn carriages                    .3       .5        .25          .5        .25        1.5
Faluccas                                 .1        -        .7           .1       .2          2
Ferries                                  .3                 .1           .3        .6         4
Guides                                 1.5                 1.0                                -
Tips outside hotel                                 .5      1.0
Local tour operators
overheads                            .8        .2        .2          .3        .5           .5
Food and beverage outside
hotel                                _        1.5        .1          .5        .4          1.0
Per visitor (a)                        5.0        -         .45          .28      .27          1.25
Per visitor day (a)                     -        3.7         .27         .41       .32         1.18
Entry fees(b)                          3.5
Handicraft(a)                                    5                                 .5    -      .1
Total                                  8.5       8.7                              -
(a)  These estimates of expenditures have been built up on the basis of fragmentary
information on prices and receipts of many different activities, plus judgments
of the mission.
(b) Ratio of 1977 monument, museum and sound and light receipts to estimated 1977
visitors.
N.B.  Since the mean length of stay is estimated at around 2.5, average expenditure
per visitor day outside hotels comes to around f 12.1 or U.S.c 17.30.



iGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
BENEFITS AlN) COSTS OF THE LUXOR TOURISM INVESTMENT PROGRAM
('000)
Year   Airport   Attributable                             ACCOMMODATIONS                                        Archaeological    MiscelSaneoua              Tat.1
Infrastructures,  EKisting       Practice    New           Lower              Nile             Monuments         Toarisa
Hotel Training,    Hlotel.       Hotel        Higher       Category           Cruisers                           Enterprises
Project Management,                           Category    Acconcnodation                                         sod Shopping
Technical Assist.                             Accommo-
A.     11p.rating    B ... fits                         _____________       _______datian                           _________
A.  lloeraclme Benefits                                           Bl           B                  1B3           B4          35            B6                B7                B8                 B9
1979     -             -                  - 79
1980  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a/a
1980     -             -                 272           -            -             -                --               (32)La             (89) 7                  131
1981     -             -                 218           -                          _                 _-              (84)-             (236) a                 (102)
1982     232           464               987           -            -              95                -              143                570                   2.491
1983     277           524               321          178         1,791          157                _               765              1,12                     5
1984     331           527               203          196         4,112           227                -            1,100              1,917                  8e613
1985     344           676               187          213         4,610          263              163        -    1,170              2,103                   9.729
1986     362           730               187          213         4,959          299              365             1,293              2,345                  10,153
1987     382           771               187          213         5,981          335              601             1,406              2,593                  12,469
1988     400           860               187          213         6,648           371             838             1,924              2 856                  13.;897
i989     427           930               187          213         7,304          407            1,076             1,641              3:116                  15,301
1990 to 2019      434          976                187         213          7,961          444            1,313             1,756              3,376                  16,660
Present Value discounted at 10%                            2,908.6       6,127.3            2,578,0    1,454.9       43,894.6       2,572.5         5,708.1          10,328.6            19,419.7               14fl2.3 
Present Value discounted at 12%                            2,359.7       4,932.3            2,276,2     1,178.6      34,598.1       2,045.9         4,335.9           8,215.5            15,403.5               75,345,7
Percent of total operating benefits dis-
counted at 10%                                             3.1           6,5                2.7         1.5         46.2            2.7              6.0             19.9                  20.4                  100.0
B.  Inveutments and Replacuaents                                  Cl           C2                 C3          C4           C5             C6                 C7               C8                 C9
1979     121         1979                274           90          -               -                -                31                  -                   2,495
1980     702         4396'             3,612           84          -             263                -               301                   -                  9,358
1981     936         2602              4,979          326         6,810          563                -               288                411                  16,915
1982     701         1253              2,997        1 898        14,755           225               -               418              1,091                  22,338
1983     208          482                515          587         7,945          259                -                38              1,286                  11,320
1984      53          322                358           60         2,395           266            1,290               32                310                   5,086
1985      53          322                358           60         4,858          272             1,290               32                443                   7,688
1986      53          322                358           60         4,857           279            1,354               32                437                   7,752
1987      53          322                358           60         4,977          286             1,419               32                464                   7,971
1988      53          322                358           60         5,096          290             1,484               32                459                   8,154
1989      53          322                358           60         3,229          194             1,548               32                459                   6,255
1990      53          322                358           68         1,362            88              323               32                 -                    2,598
1991 to 2010       53          322                358           60         1,481           88               327               32                 -                    2,721
Present volue investments diac.outed at 105!               2,535.9    11,428.0            12,534.7      1,890.0      39,486.7       2,136,8          5,201.1          1,084.5            3,453.5                79,751.2
Preuset oalue investments discounted at 12%                2,392.6    10,801.9            11,735,8      1,740.0      35,456.9       1,920,1          4,399.7          1,012.5            3,152.2                72,611.7
Percent of total investment discounted
at 10%                                                     3.2         14.3               15.7          2.4         49.5           2.7               6.5              1.4                  4.3                   IOO.O
C.  Net Economic Benefit
Rate of Return                                            11.85           3.05          negati-e        6.25        11.65         13,05             11.75            57.75                62.05                   12.55
Net benefit discounted at 10%                            372.7       (5300,7)           (9,956.7)       (435.1)    4,407.9       435,7            1507,0            9,244.0           15,966.2                15,241.1
Net benefit discounted at 12%                            (32.9)      (5869,6)           (9,459.6)       (561.4)      (858.8)    125,8              (63.8)           7,202.9           12,251.5                 2,734.0
/a  Due to the closure of some rooms of the Sawny Hotel, the number of visitors is lower with than without the project.



ANNEX VI
- 103 -                            Table 5
RATES OF RETURN AND NET ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF LUXOR TOURISM COMPONENTS
Net present value at
discount rate of:
Rate of Return       107       12%
(LE mi:,L-,o-lL
Best estimate                                           12.6             15.4       2.9
Sensitivity tests
Investment cost  + 20%                                 9.9              (.5)   (11.6)
4 10%                               11.2              7.4    ( 4.4)
- 10%                              14.3              23.3     10.1
- 20%                              19.7              42.2     27.3
Attributable infrastructure investment costs
+50%, benefits - 50%                                11.1              6.6      (5.0)
Accommodation operating benefit
+20% investment  -20%              17.1              38.9      22.8
+10%              -10%             14.8              27.1      12.8
-10%              +10%             10.5               3.7      (7.1)
-20%     /        +20%              8.8              (8.1)   (17.1)
New higher category hotels-
Benefits and costs -25%                             12.8             14.3       3.1
Operating benefit -10%                              11.9             11.0       (.6)
-20%                            11.2              6.6      (4.1)
-30%                            10.4              2.2      (7.5)
-40%             lb              9.7              (2.2)   (11.0)
More gradual build-up of capacity -                 12.1             11.3        .2
New capacity do- tlOt coMpL       rt existing
capacity (para. 7.14)                            15.0              29.8     14.f2
Slip all benefits and C5,C6,C7,C9
- by one year                                      12.0              11.3       (.4)
- by two years                                      11.3              7.6      (3.3)
Shopping and miscellaneous benefits and
costs -50Z                                       11.3               7.3     (3.3)
Opportunity cost of labor in accommodations
is 75% of payroll                                 13.5             19.1       5.8
Foreign exchange shadow price at 10% over
parallel market rate                             14.2              26.3     11.1
Foreign exchange shadow price at 20% over
parallel market rate                             15.5              37.3     19.3
Returns on sub-components of the projec,
Air terminal                  ,                     11.9              0.3       (.03)
Attributable infrastructuresJ-                       3.1             (5.3)    (5.9)
All accommodations,                                  8.8             (5.0)   (10.8)
of which:                                            /e
Existing hotels -      anegative -                               (10.0)    (9.5)
New high class hotels-                          11.7               4.4       (.9)
Training hotel                                   6.3               (.4)      (.6)
Lower category accommodation                    13.1               0.4        .1
Nile cruisers      Id                           11.8                .5       (.1)
Archaeological monuments-/                             57.8              9.2       7.2
Miscellaneous tourism services and shopping            62.1             16.0      12.3
Present value of total investment, best estimate    n.a.                 79.8      72.6
/a  Excluding the new capacity in the Luxor and ETAP hotels and the training hotel.
/b  Rather than 600 beds opening in 1983, 700 in 1984, and 175 per year from 1986, it
is assumed that 310 beds would be opened annually from 1984.
/c  Includes non-revenue earning infrastructures such as roads and Corniche improve-
ments as well as the cost of studies, project management and hotel training.
/d  Includes only those investment costs under the project.  No allowance is made for
investments in further research, development and restoration financed by foreign
donors or the Egyptian Antiquities Organization on the assumption that such
investments are independent of tourism.
/e  The economic rate of return on the investment in the Luxor hotel, assuming all
other investments proceed as planned, would come to 13.6%.



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
ECONOMIC BFNEFITS AND COSTS OF THE NEFERTARI GUEST HOUSE AND ABU SITBEL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
(IF '000)
Nefertari Guest House                                    Other Benefits and Costs    __       _      Total
Telecommunications  Savings Air Operating Costs    Met
Investment and
Operating    Cost                    Net       Operations                Basic        Alternative       B-enefit
Year         Investment   Variable   Fixed         Receipts  Benefits   and Maintenance           Estimate          Estimate
B14 B2- Cl-C2
Cl           C2        C3           BI      B1-C1-C2-C3       C4                   B2                B3         - C3- C4
1979             35            36        12           55       (28)             20                                     -             (48)
1980            548            43        12           65      (538)             90                    -                            (628)
1981            242           109        12          159      (204)            261                                     - -         (465)
1982             94           180        12          317        31             114                   235              118           152
1983             28           203        12          358       115              24                   235              138           326   -
1984             28           226        12          395       129              24                   235              158           340
1985             28           249        12          432       143              24                   235              177           354
1986             28           271        12          477       166              24                   235              197           377
1987             28           271        12          477       166              24                   235              217           377
1988             28           271        12          477       166              24                   235              237           377
(D >
1989-2010        28           271        12          477       166              24                   256              256           398 o <
Present value
at Discount
Rate of:
10%   (999.59)   (2,108.49)  (125.75)  3,661.33   427.50             (570.98)              1,897.84           1,636.08      1,754.36
12%   (943.24)   (1,749.65)  (109.02)  3,031.33   229.42             (525.96)              1,560.70           1,318.96      1,264.16
ERR                                                          15.45                                                                  24.35



AMNEX VI
Table 7
- 105 -
RATES OF RETURN AND NET ECONOMIC BENEFIT ON ABU SIMBEL COMPONENT
Rate of   Net present value
return   (10% discount rate)
(%)          (LE'OOO)
Nefertari guesthouse
Basic estimate                         15                428
Prices + 10%                           20                794
- 10%                           11                61
Occupancy rate + 10%                   17                583
- 10%                  14                272
Investment cost + 10%                  14                328
- 10%                 17               527
Guesthouse and telecommunications
(including aircraft cost savings)
Basic estimate                         24             1,754
Investment + 10%                       22             1,597
- 10%                       27             1,911
Airline cost savings rise from 1/2
to total potential between 1982
and 1990                             21             1,493



- 106 -                            ANNEX VII
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
THE EGYPTIAN MUSEUM
1.      The Egyptian Museum in Cairo houses the world's greatest collection
of ancient Egyptian antiquities and is one of the two preeminent cultural
attractions for tourists visiting Cairo--the other being the pyramids at
Giza. Though the museum's collection is outstanding, the way it is
displayed and conserved leaves much to be desired.  The museum has been
justly described as a "dusty warehouse" where antiquities are stored rather
than displayed.
2.      Although the beginnings of the museum date from 1834 when the
Ministry of Education organized a small collection of pharaonic objects at
the request of Jean Francois Charapollion, a French archaeologist famous for
deciphering the hieroglyphs, it was the French archaeologist Auguste Mariette
that exerted his influence for the establishment of a museum when he was
appointed Director of Antiquities in Egypt in 1858. This assignment gave
him the opportunity to set to work on the job of documenting the ruins and
controlling excavation. For the storage of finds from such excavations,
Mariette obtained the old offices of a river transport company on the Nile
and used four rooms of the building to exhibit the most beautiful objects.
This small collection became so popular that the Government decided to
allocate funds for a proper museum, officially inaugurated in 1863. When
Antiquities became a department of the Ministry of Public Works in 1878,
large sums were allocated to the agency and the museum's collection outgrew
rapidly the new facilities. A flood badly damaged the museum's structure
and the collection had to be moved to unsuitable quarters at the Giza Palace
in 1891. It was only in 1902 that the collection was moved from Giza to
the present new Beaux-Arts structure, designed by the French architect
Marcel Bourgnon. During the last seventy-five years, the collection has
been increased by impressive discoveries, such as the tomb of Tutankhamun
in 1922, the contents of which are displayed in one of the most important
sections of the museum. Over the years, the building itself has been pro-
gressively altered and enlarged to house its growing collections. These now
range from prehistoric artifacts to Egyptian art under the Roman occupation.
3.      The size of the museum's collection is estimated at 100,000 objects
on display 1/ (other sources have estimated the number to be even higher),
and as such are registered in the museum's "journal d'entree," with an
additional number in "temporary registration." The more fragile of these
1/   Egyptian Museum, Cairo, Newsweek, Great Museums of the World, New York,
N. Y., 1972.



- 107 -                           ANNEX VII
objects--wood, fabric, papyri and mummies--are deteriorating through inade-
quate conservation measures and lack of climate and dust control. Years of
neglect and inconsistent practices have created a situation in which the
museum's objects are no longer under control. Over the past ten tears,
various proposals have been made to reorganize the museum's collection and
renovate the building. Studies have been made, sponsored among others by
Unesco and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Little has been
achieved to date, in part because of a rapid turnover of museum directors.
4.      The international museum community strongly favors the Bank's assist-
ance in the renovation of the Egyptian Museum. Extensive consultations have
been held with representatives of Unesco's Division of Cultural Heritage and
the International Council of Museums as well as briefer consultations with
experts of the Louvre, the British Museum and the Smithsonian Institution.
Studies and design proposals carried out under the auspices of Unesco, the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum, and architects with
experience in museum renovation and construction have been taken into account
in preparing the project.
The Museum Building
5.      The built-up area of the existing structure measures 31,230 square
meters of which approximately 30% represents space occupied by walls,
buttresses and circulation areas.  The structure's total net area is
21,820 m2 distributed over two stories, a basement, mezzanines and ambulatory
balconies. This net area is currently used as follows:
Area in          % of Total
Present Use                       m2               net area
Exhibit area                         9,654                44.2
Storage area                         3,635                16.7
Office area                             556                2.5
Library                                 236                1.1
Service area                           150                 0.7
Rental and miscellaneous                364                1.7
Empty space                          7,225                33.1
Total                             21,320               100.0
6.      Exhibit area:  The total exhibit area seems reasonable in proportion
to the total floor area of the building, with most of the museum's galleries
dedicated to public use. The number of objects on public display is, how-
ever, excessive. In addition, some hesavy statues pose a structural dangler
to the reinforced slabs between the ground floor and the basement with some
supporting beams needing immediate shoring up. Also, art objects are poorly
and hazardously housed, without proper cataloging, adequate security or
protection against accumulated dust.



- 108 -                           ANNEX VII
7.      Storage areas:  There are no well-organized storage spaces in the
museum, neither for historical objects nor for regular supplies. Art objects
that are stored suffer similar problems as those exhibited, particularly in
the basement where there is the additional problem of humidity.
Included in the storage space are two ambulatory areas above the second floor
(each of approximately 90 square meters), which are presently used for the
storage of sarcophagi but not open to the public. The basement also stores
a large number of items (damaged furniture and obsolete showcases) which
need not be kept inside the museum premises. In general, there is no
reliable storage system neither for retrieval nor records of the stored
objects. It is essential to organize and increase storage space and make
the stored items easily accessible for study and conservation.
8.      Office and library areas:  Offices are located in the south-east and
south-west corners of the building, below the steps of the two lateral stair-
ways. The space is woefully inadequate. The curatorial staff of the museum
(17 professionals) currently share one office with four desks and a hallway
with some benches. The space in the south-west corner is used by the museum
library. This library is overcrowded, but efforts are currently being made
to provide more room by renovating some adjacent space. At present, public
access to the library is limited to two hours per day.
9.      Service area:  This area is grossly deficient.  Additional areas are
required for the registration and study of archaeological finds coming to
the museum, their routine examination and their treatment or cleaning. All
objects are brought to the museum via an open-air loading dock which has no
dependable hoisting equipment and cannot be aligned over trucks. Also,
workshops (carpentry, electrical, paint, etc.) for the ordinary maintenance
and upkeep of the building and its facilities are needed.
10.     Rental and unused areas:  The museum rents space to a concessionaire
who sells books and postcards. In turn, this concessionaire sublets space
to a bank, a jeweller's shop and a coffee shop. Congestion in these areas
is a major problem. In contrast, almost 80% of the total net area of the
basement is unused.
Conditions of the Building
11.     Except for stress cracks in the ground floor slabs on the side
galleries, the building appears to be structurally sound. Foundations,
bearing walls and other structural elements do not show cracks or other ap-
parent symptoms of stress. However, there are minor cracks in the supporting
arches of the roof to the rear of the main atrium.
12.     The roof requires substantial work.  Parapet walls and drainage
systems on the roof need improving: corners reflashed, thermal insulation
installed, and the glass in skylights sealed. The trusses over the atrium
have to be reinforced to allow periodic cleaning of the glass. Concrete sheds
installed above the skylights are deteriorating and should be either removed
or restored.



- 109 -                          ANNEX VII
13.     Interior walls and ceilings require repair and refinishing.  Floor-
ing has to be redone in a large part of the museum, particularly in public
areas and stairways, where a harder and more permanent finishing material
is required.  zxterior walls are in need of thorough cleaning, with repair
and rendering needed in some areas.
Utilities and Safety Controls
14.     The main water supply for the museum is a 75 mm diameter main that
enters the building at the north side. A 200 mm diameter sanitary line
drains waste into the city sewerage system. Both the water supply and waste
lines are inadequate. There is no fire fighting equipment located in the
building and the facilities outdoors appear inadequate.
15.     A 5 KV electric panel is currently servicing the museum, but will be
replaced when a new 11 KV distribution service is completed. Even the new
installation will not provide adequate power to meet the needs of the museum.
All installations inside the museum, including cables and conduits, are
surface-mounted.
16.     Most of the existing artificial lighting inside the museum is pro-
vided by fluorescent lamp fixtures which are unevenly distributed over the
building. A large number of these fixtures are not operative and are
inaccessible for service and maintenance. A new lighting system should be
installed, directly related to the presentation of art objects.
17.     The museum lacks installations for controlling temperature, humidity
and dust. Little attention has been paid to the vulnerability of some
museum objects (wood, papyri, textiles, mummies and even metals) to these
factors. Environmetally controlled space should be provided for these
objects as well as air conditioning for the staff working areas. For dust
control, the entire building should be sealed, windows and skylights repaired
and shut permanently, a double door entry system built in the main entrance,
and a forced-air ventilation system (with six air changes per hour) installed.
External Site Conditions
18.     Subsurface core samples taken from areas surrounding the museum show
that there are no soil engineering problems affecting the building. However,
the proximity of vehicular traffic imposed by the roads recently built and
by those under construction creates vibration problems affecting the struc-
ture. This will probably necessitate the construction of a vibration screen
to an appropriate depth. The potential construction of an underground bus
tunnel along the western wall of the museum could cause additional vibration
and, if not properly planned, could substantially hamper the pedestrian and
vehicular traffic of tourists visiting the museum. The Government has
informed IDA that if the bus tunnel is built, adequate precautions will be
taken to deal with vibration problems and to avoid any impediment to visitor
access to the museum.



- 110 -                          ANNEK VII
19.     The grounds within the museum fences (recently reduced on the
northern and eastern sides as a result of the road development around the
museum) require a special study in order to: (a) redesign and extend the
area of the sculpture garden--an important transitional area for the
visitor; (b) improve or rebuild the structures located on the western side,
providing adequate quarters for the guards; and (c) organize a proper
service yard with facilities for the safe and efficient movement of objects
entering and leaving the museum.
Organization and Management
20.     The Egyptian Museum is not only lacking in facilities but also in.
management arrangements necessary for the operation of a museum of its size,
stature and responsibilities. As currently managed, plans, actions and
procedures affecting the operation of the museum are largely outside the
control of the museum's director and his staff. The planning, budgeting and
administration of the museum is divided between museum staff and other
branches of the Egyptian Antiquities Organization.
21.     The museum is run by a director.  On the curatorial side, there are
17 curators divided into three chronological departments. On the adminis-
trative side, there are three controllers, four clerks, one chief of workers,
one business administrator and one accountant. There are also a chief
photographer and seven assistant photographers, one architect, one civil
engineer and two electricians. The museum has a conservation department
with a chief conservator, 14 conservator specialists (organized into three
fields: organic materials, stone and metals), and two clerks. There is a
large reproductions department with 20 technicians and 35 workers. There is
a library under the direction of a chief librarian. The Ministry of Interior
provides a guard force of 72 uniformed policemen and ten plainclothes police-
men under the command of a colonel, independent from the jurisdiction of the
museum's director.
22.     The Egyptian Museum does not have the organization found in modern
museums; there is no operations department, no education department, no
registrar, no design and display staff. In addition, no job descriptions,
definitions of areas of responsibility or clear reporting relationships
exist. There is minimal clerical back-up. There is no museum budget nor
are there clear planning procedures. The staff presently lacks the incentives,
tools, training, supervision or the authority to manage the museum or to
modify existing procedures.
Proposed Renovation Program
23.     The major objectives of the proposed renovation component would be to
improve the physical facilities in the museum and upgrade the organization
and operation of the museum by providing technical assistance and training.
It is envisaged that the museum's renovation would be the first stage
(extending over five years) of a longer-term program of development of the
museum. The proposed component would finance the following items:



- 111 -                            ANNEX VII
a.  civil works, furniture, equipment and professional services
for the first stage of the renovation program, to be designed
and implemented over a five-year period;
b.  consulting services for the preparation of a long-term
reorganization and renovation program and for the supervision
of the implementation of the first stage of such a program;
c.  fellowships for key museum staff; and
d. an advisory committee of international experts to assist in
the implementation of the first stage of the reorganization
and renovation program.
24.     Associated with the museum renovation would be technical assistance
to the Egyptian Antiquities Organization to establish planning procedures
and formulate a five-year program for the development of museums, antiquities'
sites and sound and light projects, together with assistance to strengthen
the budgetary and accounting systems of the Fund for Financing Antiquities,
Museums and Sound and Light Projects (FFAMSLP).
25.     Estimated costs are shown in Tables 1, 2 and 3, and summarized below:
ESTIMATED COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
in LE (000)                   in US$ (000)
Local  Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign    Total
a.  Museum Renovation:         992.0  2.128.0  3,120.0    1,417.1  3,040.0  4,457.1
(M) civil works         634.0  1,126.0  1,760.0        905.7  1,608.6  2,514.3
(ii) furniture            68.0    127.0    195.0         97.1    181.4    278.5
(iii) equipment           185.0    630.0    815.0        264.3    900.0  1,164.3
(iv) prof. services      105.0    245.0    350.0        150.0    350.0    500.0
b.  Technical Assistance:      132.0    788.0    920.0        188.6  1,125.7  1,314.3
(i) consulting ser-
vices (148 m/m)    126.0    534.0    660.0         180.0    762.9    942.9
(ii) fellowships           6.0    134.0    140.0          8.6    191.4    200.0
(iii) advisory committee       -    L20.0    120.0            -    171.4    171.4
Base cost       1,124.0  2,916.0  4,040.0    1,605.7  4,165.7  5,771.4
c. Contingencies:
physical                112.4    291.6    404.0         160.5    416.6    577.1
price                   618.6    537.4  1,156.0         883.8    767.7  1,651.5
Total contingencies    731.0    829.0  1,560.0    1,044.3  1,184.3  2,228.6
Total Cost (a to c)    1,885.0  3,745.0  5,600.0    2,650.0  5,350.0  8,000.0



- 112 -                       ANNEX VII
26.      Civil works costs for the museum renovation component are based
upon unit prices collected in December 1978 and January 1979 by Egyptian
consultants directly involved in the building industry. Costs of mechanical
installations and equipment were obtained from specialized tirms with large
experience in Egypt. Climate control estimates are based on a study pre-
pared for Unesco by Garry Thomson, scientific adviser of the London National
Gallery, in 1969 and updated to February 1979 prices by climate control
specialists. Costs of fire protection and security control were prepared
by industrial fire protection specialists hired for this purpose by the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1975 and updated to February 1979.
27.      Museum renovation: Withirn the framework of the long-term plan for
the development of the Museum, the first stage of the museum renovation pro-
graim would consist of essential repairs to the building, installation of climate
control, improved lighting, improved displays, new mechanical and electrical
installations, improved fire control and security systems, reorganization of
the exhibition and storage areas, and improved library, documentation,
research, conservation, cataloging and administration facilities. The
selection of the exhibit objects proposed by the consultants would be
reviewed by the museum authorities and the advisory committee. All interior
wall and ceiling surfaces would be repaired and painted after the removal
and concealed installation of electric wiring and fixtures consistent with
professional museum lighting. All flooring surfaces would be repaired and
refinished.
28.     A new elevator and a loading/unloading system would be installed.
Air conditioning would be installed in specific areas (offices, coffee shop,
library, workshops and rooms exhibiting objects requiring a special climate
for their conservation). Other areas of the building would be equipped with
an air control system consisting of dust filtration, forced-air ventilation
and humidity control. This system would require sealing and double-glazing
of windows in every area.
29.     The first-stage renovation program also includes the provision of
furniture and equipment for exhibit and storage areas, workshops, offices
and other facilities. Laboratory equipment would be provided for the
photographic and conservation departments, and special equipment for the
reproduction department.
30.     About 180 man-months of professional services of architects,
mechanical and electrical engineers and display designers would be required
for the design and supervision of the first stage of the renovation program.
31.     Consulting services:  Technical assistance would be provided to up-
grade the organization and staffing of the museum and to establish planning
procedures for the EAO and budgeting procedures for the FFAMSLP through a
multidisciplinary team of 14 experts. The team would consist of a senior
museologist, a museum operations expert, an egyptologist, an expert in
museum reproductions and sales, a museum registrar to advise and assist in
the process of cataloging, a museum conservation generalist to be assisted
by three conservation specialists (organic materials, stone and metals), an



- 1L3 -                 ANNEX VII
expert in the organization of documentation and library, and a photographer
to reorganize the photography department and assist the registrar in the
cataloging process.  It is expected that the egyptologist would also provide
assistance to the Egyptian Antiquities Organization in formulating the f:ive-
year development program for antiquit:ies, museums and sound and light
projects, together with an architect/restorer and an economist. A financial
adviser would provide assistance to the EAO and the FFAMSLP in budgeting and
accounting. After the completion of the long-term plan for the museum and
initial planning of the reorganizatiorn of the collection and of the museum
administration, five members of the team (museologist, operations expert,
registrar, reproductions/sales expert and conservationist) would continue
assisting the museum during implementation of the first stage of the program
for periods of two to three months each year over four years.
32.      Fellowships:  The museum component would also include the financing
of ten fellowships for key museum staff to study and work abroad in
established institutions for a period of two years. These fellowships
would be for the acquisition of skills most urgently needed in the renovation
and reorganization of the museum: museology, museum administration and
operations, conservation, documentation and display design.
33.      Advisory committee: Funds would be included in the museum component
to finance an international committee of four or five experts, who would be
selected by the Egyptian Government in consultation with Unesco and IDA, to
review and advise on the proposals of the consultants and on the implementa-
tion of the first stage of the museum renovation program. It is expected
that the team would meet periodically in Cairo for short review sessions.
In total, nine such sessions have been planned.
Management Reorganization
34.      The staffing structure of the museum would be studied by consultants
who would submit detailed proposals for review by the Government, the Advisory
Committee and the Association. These proposals would cover, among others,
organizational structure, the numbers of staff required and types of specia-
lization, job descriptions, definitions of areas of responsibility, report-
ing relationships, budgeting and accounting procedures, and levels of com-
pensation required to attract and reta:in staff of the required calibre.
Though the details of the required organizational and staffing structure
of the museum cannot be prejudged, it Ls already clear that certain changes
should be made, which have been reflected in the main report. These changes
include:
(i)  the museum administration should have authority over museum
operations and staffing, subject to overall supervision by a
higher body, whose responsibilities would include deciding
major policy issues and approving the annual budget, but which
would not be concerned with the day-to-day running of the
museum;



- 114 -                         ANNEX VII
(ii)  the museum administration should be headed by a director, with
full responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the
Museum;
Ciii) a substantial increase in the staff of the museum is required
to enable it to fulfill adequately its proper range of
functions;
(iv)  to attract and retain staff of the required calibre, emoluments
would have to be substantially increased;
(Y) to enable the museum to meet the additional costs of operation
resulting from increases in staff and staff compensation as
well as other essential costs of operation and maintenance,
revenues of the museum should be increased;
(vi)  museum revenues should be used to meet costs of operation,
maintenance and development to the limits approved in the
annual budget;
(vii) an annual budget should be prepared with estimates of revenues
and costs of operation, maintenance and development, which,
when approved by the higher body referred to in (i) above,
would provide the basis for the museum's operations;
(viii) the museum should keep its own accounts, covering all revenues
and expenditures, which should be audited by independent
auditors.
Museum Revenues and Costs
35.     Entry fees paid to the Egyptian Museum amounted to LE 386,000 in
1977 and LE 432,000 in 1978. In addition, the museum earned relatively small
amounts from concessions (LE 1,200 in 1977 and LE 5,200 in 1978) and the sale
of reproductions (averaging about LE 10,000 in 1977 and 1978).
36.     All revenues of the museum are paid into the FFAMSLP.  Payroll and
other expenses are met from the budget of the EAO, except for the costs of
the guard force. In the past, though revenues of the museum have been
substantial, the budgetary provisions from the EAO were, until 1978, inade-
quate even to permit minimum maintenance, e.g., replacing broken glass in
the skylights. The museum does not have its own budget nor control over its
funds. An organizational change which would allow the museum to retain
enough of its revenues to meet essential costs of operation and maintenance
is needed as reflected in para. 34 (vi) above.
37.     Present costs of operations of the museum amount only to some
LE 90,000. Expenses of operating the museum are classified under three main
headings--payroll, other recurrent, and projects--though the distinction
between the last two categories is blurred. The payroll costs of the museum,
including various bonuses and allowances, totaled some LE 45,000 in 1978.



- 115 -                    ANNEX VII
(This figure did not include the costs of the guard force supplied and
funded by the Ministry of the Interior; including all allowances, the cOst
of guards is estimated at some LE 30,000 in 1978.) Other expenditures met
from the budget of the EAO totaled some LE 60,000 in 1978, of whic.;h about
LE 15,000 represented capital improvernents and the remainder expenditures on
operations and essential maintenance.
38.     The proposed reorganization and renovation of the museum would
involve substantially increased costs of operation and maintenance.
Until the studies of staffing and salary levels, and of the services,
materials and equipment needed for the proper operation of the museum have
been completed, only a rough estimate of future operating costs can be made.
However, they seem unlikely to be less than LE 250,000 or more than
LE 500,000 annually at 1978 prices when the first-stage renovation project
is completed.
39.     On the basis of the projections of foreign visitor flows to Egypt
and of the numbers of visitors to the museum, the increase in museum revenues
from entry fees would be greater than the foreseen increase in costs of
operation and maintenance. With the increase in visitor entry fees proposed
to be introduced in October 1979, receipts are projected to rise to some
LE 1.7 million by 1985, and LE 2.1 million by 1990. Were the entry fee to
be increased by a further LE 1.0 in 1984, as envisaged under the project,
revenues from visitor entry fees would be LE 2.8 million in 1985 and
LE 3.5 million in 1990. In addition, substantial earnings from the sale of
improved reproductions and concessions are expected when the project is
completed, but there is no basis at present for estimating these revenues.



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
EGYPTIAN MUSEUM, CAIRO
SUMMARY OF TOTAL COST ESTIMATES                Rate of Exchange US$1.00=LE 0.70
Estimated Costs in LE'000 (Jan. 1979 Prices)               Estimated Total Cost
Civil   Furniture                    Professional   Technical
Works   & Fixtures    Equipment        Services       Assistance  in LE'OOO  in US$'000
A.  BUILDING RENOVATION                   1,760          195           815            350                        3,120        4,457.1
B.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                           920        1,314.3
Consulting Services (148 m/m)                                                                 660
Fellowships (10 x 2 yrs)                                                                      140
Advisory committee                                                                            120
BASE COST                             1,760         195            815            350             920        4,040
in US$'OOO                         2,514-3       278.6       1,164.2           500.0        1,314.3                    5,771.4  ON
CONTINGENCIES:
Physical increase (10%)              176          19            82              35             92           404          577.1
Price increase (28.6%)               604          59           231              90            172        1,156         1,651.5
Subtotal                          780          78           313            125             264        1,560
in US$'000                  1,114.3       111.4          447.2          178.6           377.1                   2,228.6
TOTAL COST  in LE'OOO                 2,540         273         1,128             475          1,184 
in US$'OOO                         3,628.6       390.0       1,611.4           678.6        1,691.4                    8,000.0
TOTAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT
Percentage of total cost            57.3        62.3          72.5            60.4           85.7         66.9
in LE'OOO                      1,455          170           818            287           1,015        3,745                 3
in US$'000                     2,078.6        242.8       1,168.6          410.0         1,450.o                   5,350  
I-'>



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
EGYPTIAN MUSEUM, CAIRO
ESTIMATED COST OF THE FIRST-STAGE RENOVATION PROGRAM            Rate of Exchange US$1.00-LE 0.70
Estimated Costs in LE'O00  (Jan. 1979 Prices)                   ESTIMATED TOTAL COST
Site               Furniture             Physical    Profession.
Description                    Development Building & Fixtures Equipment Facilities   Services    in LE'OOO in US$'OOO
A. BUILDING RENOVATION
1.0 Structural works                                   65.3                             65.3
2.0 Flooring                                          220.0                            220.0
3.0 Partitions, ceilings & finishings                 315.5                            315.5
4.0 Windows                                            55.4                             55.4
5.0 Electrical & Lighting                             349.5                   60.0     409.5
6.0 Air conditioning & ventilation                    240.4                 379.1      619.5
7.0 Plumbing                                           99.3                             99.3
8.0 Lift & hoist equipment                             10.3                  56.2       66.5
9.0 Security control & fire fighting                   50.0                  44.4       94.4
10.0 Roof improvements                                  86.5                             86.5
11.0 Furniture & equipmenLt                                        195.0      275.3     470.3
12.0 Exterior works                                    147.8                            147.8
13.0 Gardening & external works             120.0                                        120.0
Base Cost, in LE'OOO                   120.0   1,640.0       195.0      815.0   2,770.0         350.0        3,120.0
in US$'Ooo                        171.4   2,342.9        278.6   1,164.2   3,957.0          500.0                    4,457.0
Foreign Exchange
Percentage                          50.0       65.0        65.1       77.3       68.0         70.0           68.2
in LE'OOO                           60.0   1,066.0        127.0      630.0   1,883.0         245.0        2,128.0
in US$o000                          85.7   1,522.9        181.4      900.0   2,690.0         350.0                    3,040.0



EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
EGYPTIAN MUSEUM, CAIRO
ESTIMATED COST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          Rate of Exchange US$1.00=LE 0.70
Estimated Cost in LE'OOO (Jan. 1979 Prices)            Estimated Total Cost
Cost      Basic                    Other
addit.    per       Year      Additional   Techn.  in LE'OOO  in US$'ooo
Description                         m/m     m/m       m/m    Services      Services    Asst.
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.0  Consulting services                    100       48                 438.0         222.0                  660.0      942.9
(excluding professional services
of architects, engineers and
museum designers)
1.1  Team leader (museologist)               12       12     4,500        54.0          54.0
1.2  Museum operations expert                12        8     4,200        50.4          33.6
1.3  Egyptologist (EAO & Museum)             12              4,200        50.4
1.4  Reproductions & sales expert             6        8     4,200        25.2          33.6                                         1
1.5  Museum registrar (cataloging)           10       8      4,200        42.0          33.6
1.6  Conservation expert (generalist)        12      12      4,200        50.4          50.4                                        c
1.7  Conservation adviser (stone)             2              4,500         9.0                                                       1
1.8  Conservation adviser (organic m.)        4              4,500        18.0
1.9  Conservation adviser (metals)            2              4,500         9.0
1.10 Librarian and documentation              6              4,200        25.2
1.11 Photographer                             6              4,200        25.2
1.12 Architect-restorer (EAO/FFAMSLP)         6              4,200        25.2
1.13 Economist (EAO/FFAMSLP)                  6              4,200        25.2
1.14 Financial adviser (EAO/FFAMSLP)          4              4,200        16.8
1.15 Travel and other expenses                                            12.0          16.8
2.0  Fellowships (10/2 yrs)                 210                 670                               140.0       140.0       200.0
3.0  Advisory committee (8 sessions)                                                              120.0       120.0       171.4
Base Cost, in LE'000                                             438.0         222.0     260.0       920.0
in US$'000                                           625.7         317.2      371.4                1,314.3
Foreign Exchange
Percentage                                                     80.9         80.9       97.7        85.7
in LE'000                                                    354.4         179.6      254.0       788.0
in US$'000                                                   506.3         256.6      362.8                 1,125.7



- 119 -
ANNEX VIII
EGYPT TOURISM PROJECT
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Documents Related to the Sector
1.  National Plan for Tourism, Arab Republic of Egypt,  Steigenberger
Consulting, Ltd., 1978 (5 vols.)
2.  Tourism Development in the Suez Canal Zone, Arab Republic of Egypt,
Draft Final Report, UNDP, 1978 (2 vols.)
3. Statistical Bulletins, (various years) Ministry of Tourism, Under-
secretariat for Planning and Follow-up, General Directorate for
Research and Statistics.
4. Passenger/Cargo Forecasts 1978-1990, Egyptair.
5.  Annual Statistical Report, 1976, Egyptian Civil Aviation Organization.
6. Northwest Coast Tourism Developmeit Study, Egypt, (financed by UNDP)
ILACO/TDC, Netherlands, May 1977.
7. Balance Sheets and Income Statements*.of
Egyptian General Company of Tourism and Hotels
Misr Hotels Co.
Misr Travel
Egyptian Company of Hotels
Grand Hotels of Egypt.
8. Analysis of Licensed Restaurants and Night Clubs, and Employment,
by Province, * Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation.
9. Information on Operating Receipts and Costs of EGOTH-owned Hotels,
Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation.
10.  List of Accommodation Establishments, and Prices* Ministry of Tourism
and Civil Aviation.
11.  Passenger Capacity Utilization on Overnight Trains to Upper Egypt,*
1976 and 1977, Egypt Rail.
12. Entry Fees to Monuments of the Egyptian Antiquities Organization *
13. Budget of the Egyptian Antiquities Organization *
14. Decree No. 2828 of 1971, Creating the Egyptian Antiquities Organization
(translation)
* - in Arabic.



- 120 -                            ANNEX VIII
15. Decree No. 95 of 1978, The Fund for the Financing of Antiquities,
Museums, and the Sound and Light Projects (translatior).
16. Data on Budget of Egyptian Antiquities Organization and Organization
Chart, in Egypt Tourism Project, Back-to-Office Report November 28,
1978.
B. Reports and Documents Related to the Project
1. Luxor - Abu Simbel Tourism Project, preliminary report, Arab Consulting
Engineers, May 1978.
2. Socio-Economic Study of Luxor, Hooper, Emma, and David Sims, Clifford
Culpin and Partners, 1978, consultant study.
3. Luxor Hotel Project: Renovation, Expansion and Hotel School;
EGOTH, preliminary project, 1978.
4.  Apercu sur les Degradations des Gres dans les Temples de Karnak,
Claude Traunecker, published by Franco Egyptian Center, Cairo, 1975.
5. Luxor - Ancient Thebes, A Report to Unesco, Michael Welbank, 1976,
Shankland & Cox Partnership, Planners and Architects, London, UK.
6. The Nile Festival Village Project, Preliminary Plans, Hassan Fathy,
Project Architect, November 1977.
7. Gornah Village - Luxor (Housing the Poor), Hassan Fathy, 1976.
8. Report on the Hotel Training School, GTZ, 1978.



IBRD 13941R
T UR E I                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY 1979
<_Sp s _o            w I   oIRAQ                                                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPT TOURISM  PROJECT
I   A.R Rst
L I SYA I EGYPTVSAUDI                                                                                     Project Location
A R A e I A
cS U DAt                                                  0, UA                                                   10             200            300
u   AKIEMENS                                                                                          KILOMETERS
.e            , ETHIOPIA~E
I*  _  i  >   / }  *  Project Location
Cultivated Areas
-C  ,~       II 6)   International Airports
( Domestic Airports
)>ta   fS   V     s  Capital City
i.~~  rEt       0   ~Cities ord Towan
(  .   ~   1  /   }   J  \   ~ - ~~  Wodis
30c                                                  -                                                                                                         -        -    intrnational Bmondories
GIzo    CAIRO        SuA                   ,               *
N
)     ~           ~         ~        ~~~ E  5 Toeha E> \ I Miy
j   W  E  5 T E R /V                      in                                           F  <r)                    XI    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s A U D I 
<  i                                                                                         Asyuf2                      i       HArghodu,  T                                A  R A  B I A
26' jena                                                                                                                                                                                           26
.~~~    5    E R    TA
T                                                                                                                                                                                            U I  S   E   R ,  f ,
th:~~~ ~ ~ ~         ~ = w\ ""' il% 4                                                                                                               v-h
K                                                     0
IThib tap has been prepterad by thr                                                                       LoA   Nyrn
World Banka staff eooloeuselrfor                                                                           oe/tsr            
the csnvawn/ese of the readerts of                                                                                           -          
*the rteponT to whiuch t is attached.irR  
The d-nonhation- Used and the
tIboundare r hs rhown as tIcs stay                                                                         r         /             \  
do tro i,ply, on the pert of the  
WodrtandIresfh>l,teo, any                                                            AbuSim      obellr {                                            / 
jg-dnrant on the legal status of
In asp trrirccy or any a-dorsrnatrt
22 r ecceptece of such boundries.
--                 --         - ----                 ......-                                                                                                                             22-- -
I6                                                                                  ,                 U DA4Wadi HaIfa
j   26-                                                   ~~~~~~~~~30O        J               S U D AN    - 34- 






IBRD 13940
X >                                                                        >s ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
K \fcUSOR INTERNATIO,AL                                EGYPT  TOURISM  PROJECT
AIRPORT                                          Luxor Master Plan
X   -<'"                                                      -';                         *   sl* eso~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kV*.i. C..t.,
X                  - 2  3.               4Zo
K < s \> j s  ( G \ \;\ 1X Urban Area -Expcnsion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ub-.4..  Ehr
4  <   >   <   &  v;  ~~~~~~~~~~~ < > _ g 0 tX tB R -- Se r t emen rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                    cor  Hte
\\                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-A. - E.P-.^kS u],0
Q ~~~~                  ........ ~~~~~~~ieerwS or M iai Heo1-- e
tnR.-y Tourim Zone
URban-Are - NErcpnnGier
Po.rge r Flleg s,.]~&Lnig
RF.,op - Mom  e
RiLm:o--y'sS -d- N Er a r G ion
Doen --
AIA [I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~foseo Prin oks&Loig
. . . . . . . . . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Poe Mi
Lerusoood Prmnood (ElC RABrn A
E  s  E  R  T                                                                                                      C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dsr oiderIos



