ii
CONFORMED COPY                   f
CREDIT NUMBER 909 EGT
Project Ageemen..t
(Tourism Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                -
and
EGYPTIAN ANTIQUITIES ORGANIZATION
4


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 909 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
Egyptian Antiquities Organization, a legal entity existing under
the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter called EAO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of eVen date
herewith between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent, to thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars
($32,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EAO agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EAO, a part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to EAO on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS EAO, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EAO shall carry out Parts H (i), H (iii), N (v)
and 0 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and archaeological practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EAO shall employ consultants, whose qualifications, exper-
ience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association and EAO:
(i) not later than three months from the Effective
Date, to carry out the study included in Part K
(v) of the Project;
(ii) not later than four months from the date of comple-
tion of the said study, for the implementation
of Part 0 of the Project (including the design,
preparation of tender documents and supervision of
construction of works); and
(iii) not later than eighteen months from the Effective
Date, for the carrying. out of Parts H (i) and H
(iii) of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) EAO undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by EAO to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EAO
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) EAO shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and prOcurement
schedules for Parts H (i), H (iii) and 0 of the Project, and any
JI


﻿F~
-3-
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) EAO: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts H (i), H (iii), N (v)
and 0 of the Project (including their cost) to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in said Parts of the Project; (ii) shall enable
the Association's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in Parts H (i), H (iii) and 0
of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Parts H (i), H (iii), N (v) and 0 of the Project, their
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
said Parts, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, EAO shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Parts H (i), H (iii), N (v) and 0 of the Project, their costs
and the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the per-
formance by EAO and the Association of their respective obliga-.
tions under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.
(d) EAO shall enable the Association's representatives to
(i) visit sites, works, museums, property and equipment of EAO and
(ii) see the records and documents, relevant to the Project.
Section 2.06. EAO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Sixth Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, EAO shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Sixth Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) EAO shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts H (i), H (iii), N (v) and 0 of the Project, the
1 A.-


﻿-4-
performance of its obligations under this Agree-tent and under
the Sixth Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matcers relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) EAO shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Parts H (i), H (iii), N (v) and 0 of the Project, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
EAO of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Sixth
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EAO shall, upon the completion of Part 0 of the Project,
or by June 30, 1984, whichever is earlier, increase the non-
concessional entry fee charged from visitors to the Egyptian
Museum by not less than kEl per visitor, measured in 1979 prices,
and shall adjust: (i) the same from time to time; and (ii) entry
fees charged at Luxor and Abu Simbel monuments, to take into
account changes in prices as reflected in the Borrower's Wholesale
Price Index.
Section 2.09. EAO shall:
(i) establish, and thereafter, maintain a Museum
Implementation Unit to carry out Parts N (v) and 0
of the Project with organization, staffing, proce-
dures, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Association;
(ii) appoint, by a date not later than six months from
the date of this Agreement or such other date as
may be agreed between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, and thereafter maintain in employment, a
duly qualified and competent project manager, with
job qualifications and description satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association, as the head of
MIU; and
(iii) promptly appoint and thereafter maintain in
employment duly qualified and experienced persons,
with job qualifications and descriptions satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association,
as senior architect and procurement officer of
MIU.
A:A


﻿-5-A
Section 2.10. EAO shall: (i) carry out and complete the
study included in Part N (v) of the Project within nine months
from the Effective Date; (ii) promptly furnish the report of such
study to the Association; and (iii) promptly implement such
recommendations as may be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association in accordance with a time-schedule acceptable to the
Association. EAO shall furnish the report of the said studies to
the committee of experts established by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 3.13 of the Development Credit Agreement and, as far as
practicable, to UNESCO.
Section 2.11. EAO shall, not later than December 31, 1981,
take, as far as practicable in consultation with UNESCO, all
such measures as shall be necessary on its part for the protection
and preservation of the Royal Tombs in Luxor, and shall, in the
carrying out of such measures accord priority to tombs which
attract tourists in greater numbers.
Section 2.12. EAO shall not later than December 31, 1983,
implement all such recommendations referred to in Section 3.04
(b) (iii) of the Development Credit Agreement as shall be within
its competence and jurisidiction.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EAO
Section 3.01. EAO shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. EAO shall cause the management of the Egyptian
Musetm to prepare annual budgets in accordance with appropriate
procedures; such budgets to provide adequate funds to meet the
costs of operations, maintenance and development of the Museum.
Section 3.03. EAO shall continue to maintain a planning-- and
budget unit, with cerms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association, to: (i) prepare, with the assistance of
consultants employed by the Borrower for carrying out Part N (vi)
of the Project, EAO's annual budget; and (ii) estimate, with the
assistance of said consultants and MECSR, revenues of the Anti-
quities Fund and, on that basis, prepare 5-year expenditure
JI


﻿- 6 -
programs for the antiquities sector. The said unit shall be
responsible for overseeing the implementation of the said pro-
grams and shall revise and extend each program, as necessary. EAO
shall continue to maintain in employment a duly qualified and
experienced director and staff for the said unit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EAO shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition. EAO shall main-
tain separate accounts and financial statements for Parts N (v)
and 0 of the Project.
Section 4.02. EAO shall: (i) have said accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soo- ,s available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of said financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of EAO and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EAO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-7-
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify EAO
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EAO:
The President
Egyptian Antiquities Organization
3 Adel-Abu-Bakr
Zamalek, Cairo
Egypt
-A


﻿Cable address:
ARCHO Center
Cairo
Section 6.02. Any action requited or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of EAO may be taken or executed by the
President of EAO or such other person or persons as the said
President shall designate in writing, and the said President shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EGYPTIAN ANTIQUITIES ORGANIZATION
By /s/ Mahmoud Abdel Hafez
Authorized Representative
__     ___mm_mm__                      __     __    __     __n mi


