CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 909 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Tourism Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 13, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 909 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1979, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign excha ge cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has contracted from the German Agency for
Technical Cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany (herein-
after called GTZ) a grant (hereinafter called GTZ Grant) in an
aggregate amount equivalent to about $2,400,000 to assist in the
financing of a portion of Part J of the Project on th terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement entered into between the
Borrower and GTZ (hereinafter called GTZ Agreement);
(C) the Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower
and partly by Project entities and Project agencies of the Bor-
rower with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to each of the Project
entities and Project agencies the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
Ih
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith and in the Undertakings referred
A            to in Section 1.02 of this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit


﻿-2-
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requikes, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Luxor Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association, the Governorate of Qena and the City of Luxor
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Luxor Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Luxor Project
Agreement;
(b)  "First Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Luxor )ursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
First Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "EGOTH Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and EGOTH of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the EGOTH Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the EGOTH Project Agreement;
(d) "MATCO Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and MATCO of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the MATCO Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the MATCO Project Agreement;
(e)  "EAO Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EAO of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the EAO Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
EAO Project Agreement;
(f)  "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and EEA pursuant to
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-3-
(g) "Third Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ARETO pursuant to Section
3.02 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Third Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement;
(h) "Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and EGOTH pursuant to
Section 3.02 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i) "Fifth Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and MATCO pursuant to Section
3.02 (f) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Fifth Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement;
(j) "Sixth Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and EAO pursuant to Section
3.02 (h) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Sixth Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement;
(k) "Seventh Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and ECAO pursuant to
Section 3.02 (i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Seventh Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(1) "Eighth Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and RWWA pursuant to
Section 3.02 (j) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Eighth Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(m) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the First, Second,
Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Subsidiary Loan
Agreements;
(n) "Project Agreements" means the Luxor, EGOTH, MATCO and
EAO Project Agreements;
(o) "Governorate" means the Governorate of Qena;


﻿-


﻿, T1
5 -
(cc) "Project Ministries" means MTCA and'MECSR;
(dd) "Undertakings" means the Undertakings of the Project
Agencies- referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(ee) "Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee" means the
committee established by the Borrower to coordinate the activities
of the Project Ministries, Project Entities and Pro e:ct Agencies;
(ff) "MIU,-' means the Museum Implementation Unit to be estab-
lished by EAO pursuant to Section 2.09 of the EAO Project Agree-
ment;
(gg) "Antiquities Fund" means the Fund for the Financing of
Antiquities, Museums and the Sound and Light Projects established
pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 95 of 1978, of the Borrower;
(hh) "H" and "Egyptian Pound" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(ii) "UNESCO" means the United Nations Educational, Scien-
tific and Cultural Organization;
(jj) "Egyptian Museum" means the museum included in Part
0 of the Project;
(kk) "RWWA" means the Roads and Waterways Authority estab-
lished as a legal entity pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 359
of 1976, of the Borrower;
(11) "MEFTEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy,
Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation or its successor; and
(mm) "Minister" means the Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade
and Economic Cooperation.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association-agreesto lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars
($3295002000).


﻿-6-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. In order to assist (i) the appropriate Project
Entity (excluding EAO) or Project Ministry in the carrying out of
studies included in Part N of the Project, and (ii) the Borrower
in the design, preparation of tender documents and supervision of
the construction included under Part H (ii) of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1989, and ending April 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half pe cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿P-F71-
Section 2.10. The Minister or the Under Secretary for Inter-
national Finance of NEFTEC of the Borrower or such other person
or persons the Minister or the said Under Secretary may authorize
to act under this Section are designated as representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts H (ii),
N (i), N (iii) and N (iv) of the Project through MTCA and Part N
(vi) of the Project through MESRC, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
(i) cause the Governorate and Luxor, EGOTH, MATCO
and EAO to perform in accordance with the prcvi-
sions of their respective Project and Subsidiary
Loan Agreements all the obligations therein set
forth;
(ii) cause GOPW, EEA, REA, ARETO, ECAO and RWWA to
perform in accordance with the provisions of their
respective Undertakings, and, wherever applicable,
their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
all the obligations therein set forth; and
(iii) take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable each of the Project Entities and Project
Agencies to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) relend to Luxor an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million dollars


﻿-8-
($1,000,000), or such other amount as may be allocated for the
purposes of Parts C and D of the Project; and (ii) make available
to Luxor, on a non-reimburseable basis, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to the amount in dollars allocated by the
Borrower and the Association for purposes of Part N (ii) of the
Project under a subsidiary loan agreement and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to EEA an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million four hundred thousand
dollars ($5,400,000), or such other amount as may be allocated for
the purposes of Part E of the Project, under a subsidiary loan
agreement and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(c) The Borrower shall relend to ARETO an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million six hundred thousand dollars
($2,600,000), or such other amount as may be allocated for the
purposes of Parts F and L of the Project, under a subsidiary
loan agreement and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(d) The First, Second and Third Subsidiary Loan Agreements
shall, inter alia, provide for relending of funds for a term of 20
years, including three years of grace, and at an interest rate of
seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the amounts
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. The First Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall in addition provide that the onlending
of the portion of the Credit allocated for purposes of Part C of
the Project to Luxor shall be in the form of disbursements made
directly to GOPW by the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower shall: (i) relend to EGOTH an amount in
various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000)
or such other amount as may be allocated for purposes of Part
I of the Project; and (ii) make available to EGOTH on a non-
reimburseable basis an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one million nine hundred thousand dollars ($1,900,000), or such
other amount as may be allocated for purposes of Part J of the
Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(f) The Borrower shall relend to MATCO an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000),
or such other amount as may be allocated for purposes of Part M of


﻿-9-
the Project, under a subsidiary loan agreement and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(g) The Fourth and Fifth Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall,
inter alia, provide for relending of funds for a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, and at an interest rate of not less
than ten per cent (10%) per annum on amounts withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time. For purposes of this paragraph, the
principal amounts of loans to EGOTH and MATCO shall be the equiva-
lent in terms of Egyptian Pounds (determined as of the respective
dates of debt service on such loans) of the dollar equivale:
(determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from th1e
Credit Account) of the value of the currency or currencies with-
drawn or deemed to be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account in respect of such loans.:
(h) The Borrower shall make available to EAO on a non-
reimburseable basis an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$4,500,000 or such other amount as may be allocated for purposes
of Parts H (i), H (iii), N (v) and 0 of the Project, under a
subsidiary loan agreement and upon terms and conditions satis-
h           factory to the Association.
(i) The Borrower shall make available to ECAO on a non-
reimburseable basis an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$1,700,000, or such other amount as may be allocated for purposes
of carrying out Part G of the Project, under a subsidiary loan
agreement and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(j) The Borrower shall make available to RWWA on a non-
reimburseable basis an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $1,100,000, or such other amount as may be allocated for
purposes of carrying out Parts A, B and K of the Project, under
a subsidiary loan agreement and upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
(k) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any of them or any provi-
sion thereof.


﻿101
- 10 -
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause to be completed such
part of the Luxor sewerage system as is required to serve the
tourist hotels by not later than June 30, 1981, or by such other
date as the Borrower and the Association may agree.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause MTCA: (i) to carry
out and complete the study provided for under Parts N (iii) and N
(iv) of the Project not later than eighteen months from the
Effective Date; (ii) promptly furnish the reports of each of
the studies to the Association; and (iii) implement not later than
December 31, 1982, such recommendations as may be acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause MTCA to carry out and
complete the study provided for under Part N (i) of the Project
not later than twelve months from the Effective Date; (ii)
cause MTCA to promptly furnish the report of such study to the
Association for its comments; and (iii) cause EAO or MTCA, as
appropriate, to implement, not later than December 31, 1983,
such recommendations as may be satisfactory to the Borrower,
the Association and EAO.
Section 3.05. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all measures
necessary on its part to permit hotels in Luxor and Abu Simbel to
charge pric;s that will provide an annual rate of return of 10% on
the capital invested and revalued from time to time.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that a sufficient number of
hotel rooms will be ready for operation in Luxor in each year
commencing from 1984, to make the investments in Luxor under the
Project economically viable.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) establish, and there-
after, maintain a Project Unit within MTCA with organization,
staffing, procedures, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Association; (ii) appoint, and thereafter, maintain in employ-
ment, a duly qualified, and experienced Director, an Assistant
Director and a Procurement Officer of the Project Unit and with
job qualifications and descriptions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association; and (iii) assign to or, if necessary, recruit
sufficient qualified and experienced staff for the Project Unit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause: (i) each Project
Ministry, Project Entity and Project Agency to prepare an imple-
mentation schedule for its component of the Project; (ii) the


﻿- 11 -
Project Unit to prepare, in consultation with each Project
Ministry, Project Entity and Project Agency, an implementation
schedule (including periodic revisions thereof) for the Project
(excluding Part 0), and the MIU to prepare an implementation
schedule (including periodic revisions thereof) for Part 0 of the
Project; and (iii) the Project Unit and MIU to periodically report
the progress of each component of the Project within their respon-
sibilities to the Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee.
Section 3.08. Upon the completion of the study provided for
under Part N (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall, in consul-
tation with the Association, implement or cause to be implemented,
not later than December 31, 1984, or such other date as the
Association may agree, all such recommendations as shall enable
the Borrower or its appropriate agency or agencies, to recover the
costs of investments in and the operation and maintenance of the
assets included under Parts A (ii), (iii) and (iv), and B (ii) and
(iii) of the Project.
Section 3.09. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
generality of the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all such
action as shAll be necessary on its part to enable Luxor to comply
with its obligations under Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the Luxor
Project Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no
encroachments of any type whatsoever shall be permitted on the
site of the Egyptian Museum and that all pedestrian and vehicular
access thereto will be preserved; (b) subject to the supervision
of the Board of Directors of EAO, the Egyptian Museum administra-
tion shall have full authority over the Museum's operations and
staffing; (c) the Museum staff shall be adequately increased; (d)
the emoluments of Museum staff shall be set at levels to attract
and retain in employment qualified staff giving due regard to the
recommendations of the study referred to in Part N (v) (B) of the
Project; and (e) the Museum shall be headed at all times by a duly
qualified and experienced Director.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such steps as shall be necessary to ensure that, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the principal collection
of the Egyptian Museum shall be maintained intact for fifteen
years from the completion of Part 0 of the Project, and that the
Museum will continue to remain during the said period the prin-
cipal repository of Egyptian antiquities in Cairo.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall adopt or cause to be adopted
the land-use and subdivision regulations for Luxor, satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association, and shall establish, or cause
to be established, an administrative body, with composition
satisfactory to the Association, to enforce such regulations
in Luxor and, as appropriate, in the "tourist zone" so designated
pursuant to Decree of the Minister of Tourism of the Borrower,
Decree No. 134 of 1976.
Secton 3.13. The Borrower shall, by a date not later than
three months from the Effective Date, establish a consultative
committee of experts of international repute in consultation with
the Association and, as appropriate, with UNESCO to review, and
advise EAO on, the proposals of consultants referred to in Section
2.02 of the EAO Project Agreement relating to the design and
supervision of renovation works at the Egyptian Museum.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall manage, or cause to be
managed, the Antiquities Fund in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, under a qualified and
competent management.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Antiquities Fund to provide
to EAO, promptly as needed, funds in local and foreign currencies
required for the carrying out of Part 0 of the Project. To this
end, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient funds, at all
times, are maintained by the Antiquities Fund.
(c) The Borrower shall estimate 'the annual expenditures
for the development of the antiquities sector in accordance
with the relevant program, prepared pursuant to Section 3.03 of
the EAO Project Agreement, and approved by the Board of Directors
of EAO, and shall ensure that monies from the Antiquities Fund
are utilized in accordance with the said program as revised
from time to time.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall cause MECSR, in collabora-
tion with EAO, to: (i) carry out and complete the study (including
the formulation of the five-year program) provided for under Part
N (vi) of the Project not later than eighteen months from the
Effective Date; (ii) promptly furnish the report of the study to
the Association; and (iii) implement not later than a date two
years after the Effective Date such recommendations as may be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-13-
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
(including legislative measures) to enable the Egyptian Museum to:
(i) use its revenues accruing from entry fees, licenses and
concessions and sales of reproductions, to meet its expenses
of operation, maintenance and development as shown in the Museum's
approved budget prepared pursuant to Section 3.02 of the EAO
Project Agreement; and (ii) transfer any.surplus revenues to
the Antiquities Fund.
Section 3.17. The Borrower shall ensure that the renovated
Luxor Hotel and the renovated Nefertari Guesthouse shall be
administered and operated at all times by a duly qualified,
experienced and competent management. To this end, the Borrower
shall cause to be employed by December 31, 1979, hotel management
consultants, with terms of reference and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association
to:
(i) advise on the design of the Luxor Hotel renovation
and expansion; and
(ii) provide technical assistance to strengthen manage-
ment systems and operating procedures of the
Luxor Hotel and the Nefertari Guesthouse.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Governorate or Luxor shall have failed to perform
any of its covenants, agreements or obligations under the Luxor
Project Agreement;
(b) EGOTH shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of EGOTH under the EGOTH Project Agreement;
(c) MATCO shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of MATCO under the MATCO Project Agreement;
(d) EAO shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of EAO under the EAO Project Agreement;


﻿-14-
(e) GOPW, EEA, REA, ARETO, ECA0 or RWWA shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under its respective Undertaking;
(f) Minister of Tourism Decree No. 50 of 1976, Presidential
Decree No. 1636 of 1968, Law No. 12 of 1976, Law No. 27 of 1976,
Presidential Decree No. 709 of 1957, as amended by Decree No. 457
of 1966, Presidential Decree No. 2931 of 1971, Presidential Decree
No. 2828 of 1971 and Presidential Decree No. 95 of 1978, or
Presidential Decree No. 359 of 1976, of the Borrower, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a
way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of EGOTH,
GOPW, EEA, REA, ARETO, ECAO, EAO or RWWA to carry out its cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in its respective
Project Agreement or the Undertaking, as the case may be;
(g) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any of the Project Entities or Project Agencies or for the
suspension of the operations thereof;
(h) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Governorate or Luxor will be able to
perform its respective obligations under the Luxor Project Agree-
ment; and
(i) the Articles of Association of MATCO dated June 4, 1979,
shall have been amended in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of MATCO to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the MATCO Project Agree-
ment.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and the relevant
Project Entity or Project Agency as the case may be; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (f), (g), (h) and
(i) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-15-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and the appropriate Project Entity or
Project Agency party thereto;
(b) the Borrower has submitted to the Association Under-
takings from GOPW, EEA, REA, ECAO, ARETO and RWWA satisfactory to
the Association and meeting the requirements set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement;
(c) the Project Unit has been established in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(d) the Director, the Assistant Director and the Procurement
Officer, referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement have been
appointed by the Borrower; and
(e) the Museum Implementation Unit has been established in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of the EAO Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Luxor Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Governorate and Luxor, and is legally
binding upon the Governorate and Luxor in accordance with its
terms;
(b) that the EGOTH Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by EGOTH, and is legally binding upon EGOTH in
accordance with its terms;
(c) that the MATCO Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by MATCO, and is legally binding upon MATCO in
accordance with its terms;


﻿-16-
(d) that the EAO Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by EAO, and is legally binding upon EAO in accordance
with its terms;
(e) that each of the Undertakings has been duly authorized
or ratified by the respective Project Agency executing it, and is
legally binding upon the respective Project Agency in accordance
with its terms; and
(f) that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective
Project Entity or Project Agency executing it, and is legally
binding upon the respective Project Entity or Project Agency in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 13, 1979 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.05 (b), 3.08, 3.09, 3.10 (a) and 3.14 (a) of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister or the Under Secretary for Inter-
national Finance of MEFTEC of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade
and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt


﻿- 17 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
Ministry of Economy and             GAFEC 348 UN
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By Is/ Mahmoud Abdel Hafez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) for all Parts of       7,000,000      40%
the Project (ex-
cluding Part 0)
(b) for Part 0 of          1,500,000      60%
the Project
(2) Equipment, build-          14,200,000      100% of foreign
ing materials,                            expenditures and
furniture and fix-                        of local expendi-
tures for all Parts                       tures, ex-factory,
of the Project                            and 70% of local
including Project                         expenditures for
administration                            off-the-shelf
procured items
.(3) Consulting services          400,000      15%
for all Parts of the
Project (excluding
Parts G, N and 0)
(4) Consulting and              2,400,000      80%
experts' services
for Parts G, N and 0
of the Project and
fellowships for said
Part 0
(5) Unallocated                 7,000,000
TOTAL       32,500,000


﻿'7'
- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
May 1, 1.979; (ii) in respect of Part J of the Project unless all
conditions precedent to the Borrower's right to obtain funds under
the GTZ Grant have been fulfilled; and (iii) in respect of Part
M of the Project unless MATCO shall have acquired from the present
owners the Nefertari Guesthouse on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association.
5e   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the


﻿-20-
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to promote tourism to and within Egypt through
the carrying out of various infrastructure and other improvements
at Luxor, Abu Simbel and Cairo. Specifically, the Project includes
the following Parts:
At Luxor
Part A:   Roads
(To be carried out by RWWA)
(i) The upgrading of the Luxor Airport Road, widening
the pavement of the main road, the provision of two
separate lanes for slow-moving traffic and the
construction of bus stops.
(ii) The carrying out of road and related improvements
around the railway station, on Saad Zaghloul
Street, Luxor Temple Square and Karnak Temple
Road.
(iii) The widening of the Corniche and the stabilization
of the river bank and the boat landings.
(iv) The construction of a pedestrian promenade.
(v) Improvements to the West Bank road network serving
the main temples and tombs.
Part B:   Cruiser Landings and Ferry Boat Docks
(To be carried out by RWWA)
(i) The provision of potable water, electric power and
waste disposal along the Corniche at three sites
for large passenger cruisers and at six sites for
smaller cruisers.
(ii) The construction of three ferry docks to serve the
hotels:
(iii) Improvements to the existing public passenger ferry
dock.


﻿- 22 -
Part C:   Water Supply
(To be carried out by GOPW)
(i) The supply and laying of water mains to serve
the needs of hotels along the Corniche.
(ii) The supply and laying of network interconnecting
pipes.
(iii) The installation of new fire hydrants, water meters
and the provision of leak detection equipment and
4,00Om3 of balancing storage.
(iv) The provision of service vehicles.
Part D:   Solid Waste Removal and Sanitation
(To be carried out by Luxor)
(i) The establishment of collection points at 20
locations.
(ii) The carrying out of an environmental sanitation
and pest control program.
(iii) The provision of sanitation vehicles and equipment.
Part E:   Electricity Supply and Distribution
(To be carried out by FEA)
(i) The construction of a river crossing 132 kv over-
head transmission line from the West Bank to the
East Bank.
(ii) The construction of a substation on the East
Bank and the supply and installation of one 20 MVA
transformer.
(To be carried out by REA)
(iii) The supply and installation of 11 kv lines linking
the new substation to a new distribution panel.
(iv) the supply and installation of new transformers
and the laying of 11 kv underground cables to
strengthen existing urban distribution network.


﻿- 23 -
(v) Improvements to existing distribution panel and
the installation of 11 kv overhead transmission
lines for semi-urban and rural areas on East Bank.
(vi) The provision of street lighting and equipment.
(vii) The modification of existing 33/11 kv West Bank
substation.
Part F:   Telecommunications
(To be carried out by ARETO)
(i) The expansion of the automatic telephone exchange
by 1000 lines.                    *
(ii) The laying of underground cables for urban areas
and overhead lines for semi-urban areas.
(iii) The expansion of secondary network of underground
cables to serve the hotel zone.
(iv) The installation of an automatic trunk exchange and
a new telex exchange and network.
(v) The installation of a PABX exchange for the Luxor
Airport.
(vi) Improvements to existing telecommunication system
for the West Bank.
Part G:   Luxor Airport Terminal Building
(To be carried out by ECAO)
The construction, furnishing and equipping of a new terminal
building with a total capacity of 600 passengers in arrival and
departure lounges for both international and domestic flights,
including a new access road, parking, landscaping, water supply,
sewerage and electricity.
Part H:   Luxor Archaeological Sites
(i) West Bank Monuments.
(To be carried out by EAO)
Minor improvements to Ramses II, Ramses III and
Seti I temple sites, including night illumination


﻿-24-
of Ramses II and Ramses III temples, protective
works in seven tombs and the provision of parking
areas and walkways leading to the Valley of the
Queens and Tombs of the Nobles.
(ii) West Bank Visitor Center.
(To be carried out by MTCA)
1
The construction, furnishing and equipping of a
visitor center.
(iii) East Bank Monuments.
(To be carried out by EAO)
Improvements to the entrance to Karnak Temple,
cleansing and the desalinizing of the waters of
sacred lakes.
Part I:   Luxor Hotel
(To be carried out by EGOTH)
The renovation of the existing hotel and the adding of a
new wing of about 130 guestrooms, dining rooms, kitchen,
laundry and staff quarters including the furnishing and
equipping thereof.
Part J:   Hotel Training School
(To be carried out by EGOTH)
The construction, furnishing and equipping of a hotel
training school with about 180 student places, a prac-
tice hotel with 65 bedrooms, staff housing and student
dormitories, and the provision of fellowships and
technical assistance for the training school to be
financed under the GTZ Grant.
At Abu Simbel
Part K:   Road
(To be carried out by RWWA)
Improvements to Abu Simbel airport access road including
the box culvert.


﻿- 25 -
Part L:   Telecommunications
(To be carried out by ARETO)
The provision of 12 local lines to be connected through
a UHF radio link to Wadi Halfa.
Part M:   Nefertari Guesthouse
(To be carried out by MATCO)
(i) The expansion of Nefertari Guesthouse by adding,
equipping and furnishing 44 new bedrooms and 60
seats to the dining room and improvements to the
kitchen.
(ii) The refurnishing of the guestrooms and public
areas.
(iii) Improvements to the Guesthouse including land-
scaping, the construction of a service road,
parking, and a walkway to boat landing site and the
provision of a package sewage treatment plant and
electric power.
Part N:   Studies
The carrying out, through technical assistance, of the
following studies with terms of. reference satisfactory to the
Association:
(i) Study, in collaboration with EAO, of visitor
management on the West Bank of Nile at Luxor.
(ii) Study of organization and operation of the water,
sewerage and solid waste disposal services in Luxor
and charges therefor, including the cost recovery
of non-revTenue earning investments in Luxor.
(iii) Study of airport charges, including landing fees
and departure tax for recovering the cost of
investments in civil aviation facilities at domes-
tic airports and the operating costs thereof.
(iv) Study of the impact of price controls on hotels and
of means to reduce hotel investment costs.


﻿- 26 -
(v) Study and formulation of a long-term program
for the Egyptian Museum comprising: (A) a plan for
the development of the said Museum including
cataloguing and documentation of the collection,
organization, display and conservation of arti-
facts; and (B) recommendations for the said
Museum's organization and staffing, techniques of
reproduction and sales, levels of wages and sala-
ries of the said Museum's staff, budgeting and
accounting procedures.
(vi) Study and development of planning mechanisms in the
EAO including the formulation of a 5-year program
for development of museums, antiquities sites, and
sound and light projects.
Part 0:  Egyptian Museum
(To be carried out by EAO)
(i) The design for and the renovation of the Museum
building, including essential repairs to the
structure, and improved lighting, climate control,
fire control and security systems; and
(ii) The reorganization and upgrading of display,
administration, library, documentation, research,
conservation, visitor facilities and storage,
all in accordance with the recommendations of the
study included in Part N (v) of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿271
- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General
1.   Each of the Project Ministries, the Project Entities and
the Project Agencies shall be responsible for procurement of
goods and civil works under its part of the Project.
2.   "Procurement Agency" shall mean the appropriate Project
Ministry, .the Project Entity or the Project Agency.
B. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Procurement Agency shall
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Procurement Agency
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable items of furniture, fixtures,
materials and equipment shall be grouped in large packages to
permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be priocured on the basis of international


﻿- 28 -
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Procurement Agency of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿- 29 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay tor the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than $500,000
equivalent each (excluding minor road improvements in Part F of
this Schedule) may be procured after advertising locally and
in accordance with competitive bidding procedures of the Procure-
ment Agency, satisfactory to the Association, provided that, all
such procurements shall not in the aggregate exceed $4,500,000
equivalent.
2.   Contracts for furniture, fixtures, materials and equipment
estimated to cost less than $100,000 each may be procured after
advertising locally and in accordance with competitive bidding
procedures of the Procurement Agency, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, provided that, all such procurements shall not in the
aggregate exceed $2,500,000 equivalent.
3.   In the event any of the aggregate amounts specified in
paragraphs (1) and (2) above is likely to be exceeded, the Pro-
curement Agency shall agree with the Association on the procure-
ment procedure to be followed.
4.   Telephone switching equipment may be procured directly
from suppliers through negotiated contracts, satisfactory to the
Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
jR-1


﻿- 30 -
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and all contracts for
furniture, fixtures, materials and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Procurement Agency shall
furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association and the Procurement
Agency will consult with each other in the event such modifica-
tions are unacceptable to the Procurement Agency. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Pro-
curement Agency shall, before a final decision on the award
is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the
Procurement Agency and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Procurement Agency shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as


﻿- 31 -
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and the Procurement Agency and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Procurement Agency
shall inform the Association of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Borrower and the Procurement Agency and state the reasons for its
determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for minor road improvements, parking areas and
landscaping around archaeological monuments of the West Bank at
Luxor may be carried out through force account by MT and EAO.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Undertakings of the Project Agencies
A.   The Undertakings to be furnished by each of the Project
Agencies under Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall be
addressed to the Borrower and the Association, shall refer to the
Development Credit Agreement and shall provide that the respective
Project Agency shall:
(1) carry out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices the portion of the Project to be carried out by
the respective Project Agency;
(2) (i) cooperate fully with the Project Unit; (ii) furnish
to it all such information as it may request from time to time to
enable the Project Unit to carry out its operation under this
Agreement; and (iii) designate a representative from time to time
to the Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee for the efficient
carrying out of the portion of the Project to be carried out by
the respective Project Agency;
(3) comply with the procurement procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of and Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(4) unless required otherwise, operate and maintain the
facilities constructed under the portion of the Project to be
carried out by the respective Project Agency; such operation and
maintenance to be in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices (as applica-
ble) and with due regard to economy. In the carrying out of the
said maintenance, the respective Project Agency shall make, or
cause to be made, all necessary repairs and renewals to the said
facilities in accordance with appropriate technical and admin-
istrative practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources for the purpose;
(5)  (a) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the portion of the Project to be
carried out by the respective Project Agency (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it), and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof


﻿- 33 -
in the portion of the Project to be carried out by the respective
Project Agency;
(b) enable the Association's representatives to examine
the portion of the Project to be carried out by the respective
Project Agency, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and
(c) furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the portion of
the Project to be carried out by the respective Project Agency,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds and made available to
it;
(6) cooperate fully with the Association to assure that the
purposes of the Credit will be accomplished; and, to that end,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
with the Association through its representatives with regard to
the performance by the respective Project Agency of its respective
obligations under its Undertaking, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit;
(7) promptly take, or cause to be taken, all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the
portion of the Project to be carried out by the respective Project
Agency;
(8) insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the respective Project Agency to replace or repair such
goods;
(9) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to be used exclusively for the portion of the Project to be
carried out by the respective Project Agency;
(10) maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition;
i                                                                 n miier l  m 3ltI1


﻿34
(11) (i) maintain separate accounts and financial statements
for the portion of the Project to be carried out by the respective
Project Agency; (ii) have the said accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of the said financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements of the respective Project Agency and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request;
(12) for the carrying out of the design, preparation of
tender documents and supervision of construction included in its
portion of the Project, employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association; and
(13) duly perform all its obligations under its Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
B.   The Undertaking for EEA shall also provide that:
(a) Sections 5.04, 5.05, 5.06 and 5.07 of the Loan Agreement
(Regional Electrification Project), Loan Number 1453 EGT, between
the Bank and EEA, dated July 15, 1977, are incorporated in its
Undertaking with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth therein; provided, however, that, all references in said
Sections to: (i) Borrower, shall mean EEA; (ii) Guarantor, shall
mean the Arab Republic of Egypt, and (iii) the Bank, shall mean
the Association; and
(b) EAO shall make available to REA, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, such part of
the proceeds of the Credit on-lent to EEA pursuant to Section 3.02
(b) of this Agreement as shall be allocated for the carrying out
of Parts E (iii) to (vii) of the Project.
C.   The Undertaking for ARETO shall also provide that:
Section 4.03 of Project Agreement (Second Telecommunication
Project), Credit Number 774 EGT, between the Association and


﻿- 35 -
ARETO, dated March 21, 1978, is incorporated in its Undertaking
with the same force and effect as if it were fully set forth
therein.
D.   The Undertaking for GOPW shall also provide that:
1.   GOPW shall carry out the works included in Part C of the
Project subject to the jurisdiction of the Governorate.
2.   GOPW shall, upon completion of the works included in Part C
of the Project, transfer all such assets free of any encumbrance
to Luxor.
E.   The undertaking for RWWA shall also provide that:
RWWA shall, upon completion of the works included in Parts
A, B and K of the Project, transfer free of any encumbrance
all the works included in Parts A and B, to Luxor and in Part K,
to the Governorate of Aswan.


