CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER.909 EGT
r4
Projec t Ageement
(Tourism Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EGYPTIAN GENERAL COIPANY FOR TOURISM AND HOTELS
Dated June 13, 1979
4l'


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 909 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
EGYPTIAN GENERAL COMPANY FOR TOURISM AND HOTELS, a legal entity
existing under the laws of the Borrower (hereinafter called
EGOTH).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars
($32,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EGOTH
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EGOTH, a part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to EGOTH on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS EGOTH, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EGOTH shall carry out Parts I and J of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit


﻿-2-
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) EGOTH undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incideit to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
f or such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by EGOTH to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EGOTH
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) EGOTH shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts I and J of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) EGOTH: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Parts I and J of the
Project (including their cost), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in Parts I and J of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Parts I and J of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts I and J of
the Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from said Parts, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-3-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, EGOTH shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of Parts I and J of the Project, their cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance
by EGOTH and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(d) EGOTH shall enable the Association's representatives to
visit: (i) sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of
EGOTH; and (ii) see the records and documents, relevant to the
Project.
Section 2.05. EGOTH shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, EGOTH shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Fourth Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) EGOTH shall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts I and J of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Fourth Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) EGOTH shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts I and J of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by EGOTH of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Fourth Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. EGOTH shall employ, and thereafter maintain in
its employment, a duly qualified and experienced director of the
Hotel Training School at Luxor with job qualifications and des-
cription, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.08. EGOTH shall cover the excess of operating
expenses over revenues of the Practice Hotel included in Part J of
the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. EGOTH shall take all measures necessary on its
part to establish, not later than December 31, 1981, or such other
date as the Association and EGOTH may agree, on a basis satisfac-
tory to the Association, the status and emolument levels of
instructors of the Hotel Training School at Luxor.
Section 2.10. EGOTH shall from time to time designate a
representative, to serve on the Inter-Ministerial Coordinating
Committee.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EGOTH
Section 3.01. EGOTH shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. EGOTH shall: (i) carry out the design of
the Luxor Hotel renovation and expansion with the advice of
consultants referred to in Section 3.17 of the Development Credit
Agreement; and (ii) ensure that the renovated Luxor Hotel will be
administered and operated at all times under a duly qualified,
experiehced and competent management.
ARTICLE 17;
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EGOTH shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition. EGOTH
shall maintain separate accounts and financial statements for
Parts I and J of the Project.
Section 4.02. EGOTH shall: (i) have the said accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the said financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said


﻿-5-
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of EGOTH and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of EGOTH thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before. the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
EGOTH of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required


﻿-6 -
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EGOTH:
Egyptian General Company for
Tourism and Hotels (EGOTH)
4 Latin America Street
Garden City
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                     Telex:
EGOTH                              92363 EGOTH UN
Cairo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of EGOTH may be taken or executed by
its Chairman or such other person or persons as the said Chairman
shall designate in writing, and EGOTH shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿ra
-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
4
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EGYPTIAN GENERAL COMPANY FOR
TOURISM AND HOTELS
By Is/ Mahmoud Abdel Hafez
Authorized Representative
V-1
901


