cet- 3s
Report No. 1702a-CR
Costa Rica                                                                           ¡rrfD
San Jose Urban Transport Project FILE COPY
September 26, 1977
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00           =      8.6 colones
US$0.12            =     1.0 colon
US$116,279         =     1 million colones
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2     =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )    =      0.386 square miles (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CODESA         =  Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo/Costa Rican
Development Corporation
CBD            =  Central Business District
CTT            =  Comision Technical de Transporte/Technical Transport
Commission
DGV            = Direccion General de Vialidad/Directorate of Highways
DGTA           =  Direccion General de Transporte Automotor/Directorate
of Automotive Transport
DGP            =  Direccion General de Planificacion/Directorate of
Planning
DGT            =  Direccion General de Transito/Directorate of Traffic
DTRP           =  Departamento de Transporte Remunerado de Personas/
Department of For-Hire Passenger Transport
MOPT           =  Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte/Ministry
of Public Works and Transport
OFIPLAN        =  Oficina Nacional de Planificacion y Politica Economica/
National Office of Planning and Economic Policy
RECOPE         =  Refinadora Costarricense de Petroleo, S.A./Costa
Rican Petroleum Refining Co.
TOPICS         =  Traffic Operations Programs to Increase Capacity
& Safety
TRANSMESA      =  Transportes Metropolitanas de San Jose, S.A.



f3  OFF A  Un ONLY
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pag* No.
SUMNARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................   i-il
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........          .................................      1
II.    BACKGROUND ............         ..................................       1
A.   Population and Economy ........................ .                   1
B.  The San Jose Metropolitan Area....                                  3
C. Transpott in San Jose    ,                 .....    4
D.   Project Rationale .......        .........................          9
III.    THE PROJECT ...........         ..................................      11
A.   Objectives .........................................              1i
B.   Main Features  .....................................              11
G.   Detailed Features ..................................              12
D.   Cost Estimates .....................................              18
E.   Financing Plan .....................................              20
F.   Procurement and Disbursement .......................              20
G.   Accounts and Audit .................................              20
H.   Implementation Schedule ............................              21
I.   Pre-Implementation Public Information Program    ......           21
J.   Monitoring by Goverrment ...........................              21
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................               22
A.   Organization for Implementation .....            ...............  22
B.   Selected Implementation Activities ....            .............  25
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .....................                             26
A.   Expected Benefits ..................................               27
B.   Risks ............        ...................................      33
VI.     AGREEMENT REACRED AT NEGOTIATIONS .......... .. ...........             33
This report was prepared by C. Madavo, P. Watson, A. Walters, B. Rush, and
G. Morra.
I Th docuean bur a mtr    distribution sad may be med by r   an s oa* l  tl pormace
of their offic¡a dut  ¡ti contenta may not otlwwhe ~   vb_ ~out Wo  Bk &utltb   .



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Background Information
2.   Details of TOPICS Components
3.   Equipment to be Provided under the Project
4.   Technical Assistance
5.   Training Component
6.   The Value of Land
7.   Schedule of Disbursements
8.   The Traffic Management Component
9.   Public Transport
10.   Economic Justification
CHARTS
I.   Implementation Schedule (Chart WB 17642)
TI. Organization Chart of Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(Chart WB 17644)
III.   Proposed Organization of Public Transport and Traffic Engineering
in the Directorate General of Automotive Transport (Chart WB 17643)
MAPS
IBRD 12935 - Metropolitan Area
IBRD 13010 - Adiministrative Divisions of the San Jose Metropolitan Area



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Costa Rica has a strong record of economic development, leading to
rising incomes which are relatively evenly distributed. The capital, San
Jose, is the focal point of the country and is likely to retain its dominant
position for the foreseeable future. Jobs are concentrated in the center
of San Jose, placing heavy demands on the city's transport system. Given
the growth of car ownership and use, traffic conditíons are deteriorating
rapidly and show every prospect of becoming increasingly worse in the future.
ii.       The major objective of the proposed project is to improve travel
conditions in San Jose, especially for users of public transport. The strat-
egy for achieving this improvement reflects the Government's decision to make
the best possible use of the existing transport infrastructure before embark-
ing upon an extensive road building program. This includes giving priority to
more efficient means of moving people, notably by public transport.
iii.      In the proposed project, the main improvements to the physical
system consist of road widening on major arterials, where possible within
existing rights-of-way. To accompany these improvements, a series of low-
cost schemes was devised to increase road capacity and improve traffic flow,
while giving priority to public transport and recognizing the need to provide
adequately for pedestrians. Only one new section of road will be built (to
connect with the Siquirres-San Jose Highway being constructed under. the Fourth
Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR)). Provisions have also been made to ensure
that the new facilities will be maintained and policed and to assist the
Government to develop the local capacity to undertake similar projects in the
future.
iv.       The major components of the proposed project are:
(a) Radial Routes. Improvements to radial routes in seven
corridors, including one new road;
(b) Traffic Operations Program to Increase Capacity and
Safety (TOPICS), including intersection improvements,
sub-area improvements, dispersal schemes, pedestrian
crossings, and a Central Business District (CBD) Traffic
Signal System;
(c) Equipment for road maintenance, traffic management,
traffic regulation enforcement, and for a bus inspec-
tion facility including a building to house the facility;



- ii -
(d) Technical Assistance in the form of advisers on project
management, traffic planning, public transport development,
enforcement, traffic signals, and bus maintenance, and funds
for a metropolitan planning study;
(e)   raining; for MOPT staff in traffic engineering, bus
operations and regulation, traffíc surveillance and
enforcement and for bus owner/operators in management
techniques.
v.        Total project costs are estimated at t 270.54 million (US$31.46
million), with a foreign exchange component of ¢ 141.89 million (US$16.5
míllion).  The proposed loan will finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost or
52% of total costs. The funds would be lent to the Government of Costa Rica
and made available to the MOPT, whích would be responsible for executing all
the project components except the metropolitan planning study, which will be
the responsíbility of the National Office of Planning (OFIPlan). The imple-
mentation period will be three years.
vi.       Procurement for road construction, widening, and rehabilitation
(value US$11.5 millaon) and equipment (US$2.99 million) will be on the basis
of international competitive bidding. The TOPICS program (roughly 60 schemes
valued at US$1.41 million) will be carried out on the basis of local competí-
tive bidding because the schemes are too small for international contracting.
Government local competitive bidding procedures have been examined and found
to be reasonable.
vii.       The Bank loan will be disbursed to cover 70% of the total costs
of radials and TOPICS improvements (less land), 100% of foreign expenditure
or 85% of local expenditures for equipment, 100% of foreign expenditures or
75% of total expenditures for technical assistance, 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 70% of total expenditures for training.
-vili.     The radial route improvements included in the project were selected
ín order to maximize net present values (NPV) from a range of alternatives
that íncluded more and less expensive proposals. All of the components
selected have high NPV's and all but one are justified on the basis of savings
1in vehicle operating costs alone. The addition of time savings strengthens
the economie justifications. The internal rates of return range from 21%
to 70%, with an average return of 36%. Fífty-one percent of benefits accrue
to public transport.
ix.       The CBD Traffic Signals System generates benefits in the first
year of 0 5.1 (US$59) million of which 59% accrue to public transport. The
first year rate of return is 26% with only vehícle operating cost savings
and 44% including time savíngs. Together the radials and CBD signals system
constitute 79% of total project cost and give a rate of return of 37%.
x.        The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.5 million
at the prevailing interest rate for a 17 year term, including four years of
grace for principal.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Costa Rica has requested Bank assistance to
finance and implement low-cost urban transport improvements in San Jose.
The project results from a UNDP financed urban transport study for San
Jose carried out by Alan M. Vorhees and Associates (USA) from January 1973
to July 1975. The Bank acted as executing agency. The Consultant's recom-
mendations, which were intended to form the basis for the current project,
consisted almost exclusively of expensive new road construction. On closer
examination, the Bank and the Government concluded that medium term travel
demand could be accommodated on the existing transport network supplemented
by a few new critical links, provided that adequate traffíc management and
public transport priority measures could be implemented. This became the
focus of the project.
1.02      The project follows the urban transport strategy, set out in the
Urban Transport Sector Policy Paper, of making the best use of existing
facilities and allocating a significant portion of road capacity to public
transport. The returns to the project show clearly the high payoffs, espe-
cially to public transport users, that can be obtained from the relatively
low-cost improvements categorized as Transport Systems Management. The
mieasures proposed under the project together with the capacity to be dev-
eloped in local institutions will ensure that the need for expensive road
construction can be reduced. This approach is new in Costa Rica and follows
principles which are rapidly becoming accepted as the basis for modern urban
transport planning and could very well serve as a model for other developing
countries. The project results from an extensive dialogue between the Bank
and the Government.
1.03      Specific project preparation work was financed under the Fourth
Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR) and carried out by the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport (MOPT) with consultancy assistance from Wilbur Smith and Asso-
ciates (USA) beginning in August 1976.
1.04      Three Bank project preparation missions visited San Jose between
September 1976 and April 1977. Field appraisal took place from May 30 to
June 10, 1977. The mission consisted of C. Madavo (mission leader), P. Watson
and A. Walters (URB), B. Rush (ECD), G. Morra (EDP), and J. Cracknell (Consul-
tant).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Population and Economy
2.01      Situated between Nicaragua and Panama, Costa Rica is the second
smallest country in Central America after El Salvador. The country covers



- 2 -
51,000 km2 at an average population density of 36 persons per km2. In reality,
however, the spatial distribution of population reveals areas of high concen-
tration. There are 154 persons per km2 in the central region, 17-27 persons
per km2 on the Pacific side and a low 10-13 persons per km2 on the Atlantic
side, including the northern region. 1/
2.02      Since 1960 when Costa Rica had one of the highest population growth
rates (3.8%) in Central America, the rate has dropped and now appears to have
stabilized at about 2.4% per annum. The current (1977) population of Costa
Rica is estimated to be about 2,000,000, of which just over 40% live in places
with a population of 5,000 or more which are classified by Government as
urban. 2/ Urban population is estimated to be growing at about 5% of which
about half represents migration.
2.03      In addition to the density figures cited in para. 2.01 above, the
dominance of the Meseta Central (high central valley) can readily be seen
from the data on city size. The 1973 census showed that the San Jose Metro-
politan Agglomeration had a population of 885,000, of which the Metropolitan
Area of San Jose made up about 488,000. The remainder of the agglomeration
included Alajuela (96,000), Cartago (65,000), Heredia (36,000), and numerous
other small towns. The next two largest cities were Puntarenas (33,256) and
Limon (31,910) and only nine other cities had more than 10,000 inhabitants.
2.04      Costa Rica's economic performance has been impressive. 3/  Between
1960 and 1975 real GDP grew at an annual rate of 6.5% per annum or just over
3% per capita. GDP per capita stood at US$1,110 in 1976. Agriculture and
agricultural exports have historically underpinned this economic performance
although in recent years manufacturing has emerged as the fastest growing
sector in the economy. San Jose is the center of the nascent industrial
base, holding 40% of the country's jobs.
2.05      This impressive economic performance has taken place against a
background of improving distribution of income and the Government has made
sustaíned efforts to meet the basic minimum needs of its citizens in such
sectors as education and health. National income distribution data show a
significant improvement between 1961 and 1971, although there are indications
that the middle classes are making greater gains than the poorest groups. 4/
At about 90%, Costa Rica's adult literacy rate is among the highest in the
developing world. Similarly, considerable progress has been made in the
field of health; life expectancy has risen from 61 years in 1960 to about
69 years today.
1/   See Annex 1, Table 1.
2/   See Annex 1, Table 2.
3/   See Basic Economic Report (Report No. 1666-CR), July, 1977 (Draft).
4/   See Annex 1, Table 3.



B. The San Jose Metropolitan Area
2.06      San Jose was founded in 1723 and became the capital of Costa Rica
in 1823. The city ís located in the temperate and fertile Meseta Central
and 1s the country's center for government, industry, commerce, and culture.
The metropolitan area is made up of several different municipalities (cantons)
--the Central Canton of San Jose and the cantons of Escazu, Desamparados,
Goicoechea, Alajuelita, Coronado, Tibas, Moravia, Montes de Oca, 2and
Curridabat (see Map 13010).  The metropolitan area covers 180 km
The Existing Situation
2.07      Physical Features.  San Jose is located in a valley surrounded by
mountains. The structure of the city is determined by a radial road network
that converges on a strong central area. Most of the metropolitan area is
suitable for construction and urban development potential is not limited by
physical characteristics. The provision of transport facilities is somewhat
constrained by the rivers and creeks that crisscross the city, necessitating
bridges and limiting the number of permissible connections in the road net-
work.
2.08      Population.  The offical census figures 1/ show that the population
grew from 182,000 in 1950 to 328,000 in 1963 and 488,000 in 1973. 2/ The 1977
population is estimated to be around 600,000. The average number of persons
per family is 5.5. The average residential density is 185 persons per hec-
tare, covering a range from 97 in Escazu to 245 in Desamparados. 3/
2.09      Employment.  In 1973, about 70% of the metropolitan population were
12 years old or more and hence potentially economically active of which 49%
were working, 20% percent were students, and 26% were occupied in the home. 4/
The working population was concentrated in the following sectors: communal,
social and personal services, manufacturing industries, and commerce, restau-
rants, and hotels. 5/ The average monthly wage was q9O9 (US$106) and the
average monthly family income was 11,555 (US$181).
2.10      Land Use.  In 1973, only about one quarter of the available land
area in San Jose was actually developed. Of this, 65% was devoted to
housing, 12% to private and commercial services, 9% to industry, 10% to
Government, and 6% to green space. Economic activities and employment
are concentrated in the Canton Central which contains approximately half
the jobs in the metropolitan area and larger proportions in the commercial
and service sectors, leading to heavy demands for transport into the center.
1/   A census is carried out every ten years.  The last one was in 1973.
2/   See Annex 1, Table 4.
3/   See Annex 1, Table 5.
4/   See Annex 1, Table 6.
5/   See Annex 1, Table 7.



-4-
Prospects for Development
2.11      In 1963, the San Jose Metropolitan Area contained 24.6% of the
population of Costa Rica and increased this share to 26% in 1973. In the
absence of public policies aimed at changing this trend by diverting growth to
other regions, San Jose will increase its dominant position relative to the
rest of the country. It is estimated that the population of the metropolitan
area will approach 900,000 by 1990. Given that the population of the largely
commercial central area of San Jose is not expected to grow greatly, the
population of other municipalities in the metropolitan area, especially those
on the southern and western sides of the city - Desamparados, Hatillo, San
Sebastian, Paso Ancho, Escazu - are expected to double or even triple by 1990.
2.12      The number of jobs in the metropolitan area is expected to grow at
a little over 4.5% annually from 146,700 in 1973 to 319,700 in 1990. The
Canton Central is expected to continue to contain just over half of all the
jobs in the area - more than four and a half times as many workers as live in
the canton. In fact, not all the workers who live in the Canton Central work
there, so that even more workers will have to travel in from outside. Thus,
the demand for transport between the outlying cantons and the central area
will increase.
2.13      Planning Framework.  Urban development in San Jose takes place in
an uncontrolled environment. There is no master plan or policy statement
reflecting the Government's view of what might be considered appropriate or
desirable directions for urban development. Nor are there instruments, such
as land use or zoning regulations, that might be used to control and direct
urban growth. This means that forecasts of San Jose's potential growth pat-
terns, especially concerning the location of new employment and population,
are necessarily indicative. Therefore, it is important that current invest-
ments in urban infrastructure, including transport, be designed in such a
way as to enable them to perform effectively under alternative future growth
patterns. Meanwhile, a development planning framework for the metropolitan
area should be formulated. The first step ;.n this process--a land use and
urban growth study--is proposed under the project.
C. Transport in San Jose 1/
Infrastructure
2.14      The 800 km road network in the San Jose Metropolitan Area íncludes
470 km (almost 60% of the network) of urban streets and paved highways. The
1/   on'r of the data in this section are based on the San Jose Area Trans-
portation Study. The Study area used was larger than the San Jose metro-
politan area, including Heredia, Alajuela, etc. The population of the
study area is a third larger than that of the metropolitan area and the
travel patterns analyzed include many trips that cannot be, strictly
speaking, consi :red as urban travel. However, the major problem areas
from a transport point of view lie within the metropolitan area and the
transport study permits their basic characteristics to be identified.



remaining 40% of the network ís made up of gravel and dirt roads, mainly
in the outlying parts of the area. The condition of the network is very
mixed, ranging from recent and good quality pavement to badly maintained
streets with crumbling shoulders and many potholes. In addition, the effec-
tive capacity of the network is limited, in physical terms, by open gutters
and drainage ditches, utility poles in the roadway, and varying pavement
widths and, in operational terms, by illegally parked vehicles, pedestrians
forced to walk in the roadway by a lack of sidewalks, and poor traffic dis-
cipline. Together, these factors severely limit the effective capacity of
the existing street network.
Vehicle Fleet
2.15      The road network is used by a growing fleet of motor vehicles.
About 39,000 motor cars were estimated to be in circulation in the metropol-
itan area in 1976 - about half of the number operatíng in the whole of Costa
Rica - together with about 500 buses (excluding inter-city buses) and 1,000
taxis. The total number of motor vehicles in Cost Rica tripled between 1962
and 1972, but the number of cars grew much faster than the number of buses 1/.
In 1972, the Government imposed a 100% ad valorem import duty. In addition,
motorists pay annual registration fees and road taxes amounting to about
0 300 (US$35), plus e 300 (US$35) for mandatory third-party insurance. Gas-
oline costs e 8.20 (US$0.95) per gallon of which 40% is tax. Assuming 12,000
miles per year and 25 miles per gallon, a motorist would pay almost 1 1,600
(US$183) per year in gasoline taxes. However, incomes continue to rise and
this implies a continued growth in car ownership. It is estimated that the
car fleet in the metropolitan area will grow to over 80,000 by 1990. The bus
fleet is expected to grow much less and, therefore, will in future operate as
a diminishing percentage of the total vehicle fleet competing for road space
with a growing number of cars. Given this situation, it is essential that
steps be taken to set aside part of the road network for the exclusive use of
buses and to provide other appropriate priority measures, such as provision
for turns at traffic signals.
Travel Patterns
2.16      Given the concentration of employment in the San Jose Central
Business District and the radial nature of the road network, the key indicators
of traffic performance relate to traffic conditions on the radials and in
the center. Annual traffic counts show that average daily traffic entering
the central area more than doubled between 1967 and 1975. 2/ A March 1977
survey of travel across a cordon around the central area (both directions) 3/
reported 995,900 daily person trips in 183,800 vehicles. Fourteen percent
of the vehicles were goods vehicles. Of the passenger vehicles, 10% were buses
1/   See Annex 1, Table 8.
2/   See Annex 1, Table 9.
3/   See Annex 1, Table 10.



- 6 -
and carried 75% of the passengers, 8% were taxis carrying 2% of passengers,
9% were motorcycles carrying 2% of passengers, and 73% were cars carrying 21%
of the passengers. Overall, about 7.5% of all trips were in the morning
peak; for bus trips, the percentage was 9.5. The average vehicle occupan-
cies were 43.6 for buses, 1.5 for taxis, 1.1 for motorcycles, and 1.7 for
cars. These figures represent a highly inefficient use of road space and
indicate the necessity to take steps to promote the use of and give prior-
ity to high occupancy vehícles during the peak period.
Traffic Performance
2.17      The above travel patterns represent peak-hour traffic flows that
range from 7,000 and 12,000 passengers per corridor per hour. 1/ These flows
lead to some congestion, but heavy congestion is a localized phenomenon. The
center is accessible by car from the extremities of the metropolitan area in
15-20 minutes and from much of the area in considerably less. Average car
speeds are between 15 and 20 kilometers per hour (kph) and only on a few
central area streets do they drop below 10 kph.
2.18      In general, traffic moves tolerably well and traffic performance
is reasonable.  It is, however, deteriorating quite rapidly.   A comparison
of the latest speed and delay surveys with a limited survey carried out in
1967 shows that, in the central area, travel times have more than doubled in
this period. There is every indication that, with increasing car ownership,
traffic performance in the future is likely to become progressively worse.
Bus Operations
2.19      All public transport in San Jose is operated by private entrepre-
neurs under Government regulation. About 240 private owners operate a fleet
of close to 500 buses. Within the metropolitan area, it is estimated that
this fleet travels about 70,000 vehicle-kilometers and carries about
500,000 passengers daily. In addition, about 200,000 more bus passenger
trips are provided by intercity buses that terminate within the metropol-
itan area and by school and charter buses. Bus speeds average between 13
and 22 kph on the radial routes, lower (12 to 16 kph) in the central area.
Travel times by bus range from 10 to 30 minutes. 2/ The growing level of
congestion is an increasing problem for buses which are delayed more than
cars. Steps should be taken to ensure the continued and even increased
efficiency of bus operations so that both their ridership and their profit-
ability can be maintained and the potential large modal switch towards cars
minimized.
Regulation of Bus Operators
2.20      The routes to be travelled, the number of buses to be used, and the
frequencies are set out in the concession granted to each private operator by
the Comision Technica de Transportes (Technical Transport Commission) in the
1/   See Annex 1, Table 11.
2/   See Annex 1, Table 12.



- 7 -
MOPT. Analyses of routes, capacitíes, and frequencies and recommendations
for changes are generated in the Departamento de Transporte Remunerado de
Personas (DTRP) in the Direccion General de Transporte Automotor (DGTA), with
assistance from the Division de Transporte Publico in DGTA's Departamento de
Ingeniera de Transito.
2.21      While the mechanics of issuing concessions are handled efficiently,
a closer examination reveals that the system does not really work as intended.
Initially, concessions were given to existing operators in 1965 and by and
large re-íssued to the same operators in 1976. The latest concessions are
for seven years. Even when concessions are revoked or given up, they are
frequently re-issued as extensions to existing concessions, due to the dif-
ficulties and delays involved in going to bid. Thus, the degree of competi-
tion for bus lines is small.
2.22      Given this situation, it is essential that the regulatory body on
a regular basis (a) review the demand conditions on existing lines and hence
the need for capacity increases, and (b) monitor urban expansion to ensure
that services are provided to newly urbanized areas. Neither of these tasks
is currently carried out adequately. This is due partly to the lack of staff
and the fragmentation of public transport units in DGTA and partly to the
complexities inherent in trying to control the operations of a very large
number of small enterprises. However, since concessions are issued infre-
quently and the degree of competition is limited even then, it is desirable
that service and operating standards be closely monitored so that delinquent
operators can be penalized or replaced and service standards maintained and
upgraded. This necessity seems to be recognized even by the operators them-
selves, who, on some routes, have banded together to hire an independent
manager/dispatcher to control the number of buses provided and their headways.
A more formal process should be established to monitor service standards on a
regular basis and the project will start this process.
2.23      A further problem arises over the route structure which seems to
be inadequate for the crosstown trips that occur with increasing frequency
in current travel patterns. In addition, it is not clear that the numbers
or types of buses (almost all standard size buses) operating in San Jose are
well suited to the demands being placed on them by the travelling public.
The capacity provided and the means of providing it (including the potential
for larger or smaller buses) are reviewed only infrequently. These items
will be examined during project implementation and recommendations for changes
drawn up.
Fares and Subsidies
2.24      Fare studies are carried out in the Oficina Tarifaria in the MOPT
Direccion General de Planificacion.  Recommendations are transmitted through
DTRP to the Comision Technica de Transportes. Fare studíes establish oper-
ating costs from private operator accounts and recommend fares based on
operating costs plus a "fair" return (25% of operating costs). Fares are
currently 0 0.40 (US$0.05) for regular routes and ¢ 0.50 (US$0.06) for longer
routes or for services that use buses that are two years old or less.



- 8 -
2.25      In 1976, the Oficina Tarifaria studied fares in San Jose and re-
ported that, to continue to cover costs plus the "fair" return, bus fares
should be raised by 25% (o 0.10). Public objections to the announcement
of this fare increase were so intense that the Government was obliged to
revoke the increase. In order to avoid making the bus operators bear this
burden, the Government introduced an ad hoc subsidy. Initially, the subsidy
was given for trips that were longer than 5.5 km, the rationale being that,
given a flat fare, operators lost more on long trips. This subsidy cost
US$350,000 in 1976; no budget provision was made for it in 1977.  Mole recently,
when Transportes Metropolitanas de San Jose, S.A. (TRAANSMESA) began operations,
Government subsidies were channelled through it. A review of the relation-
ship between fares and operating costs should be carried out at regular in-
tervals so that the Government can base its fare policy on better inforination
and evaluate more realistically the implications of yielding to political
pressures not to increase fares, especially with respect to the potential
long-run subsidy burden on the national budget.  The project will start this
regular review process.
2.26.     The actions noted above as necessary to increase the efficiency of
bus operations and regulation will constitute the key elements in the new
work programs for the re-organized Public Transport Department of DGTA as
proposed under the project. (See para 4.12 and Annex 9.)
TRANSMESA
2.27      TRANSMESA is a Government-owned subsidiary of the Corporacion
Costarricense de Desarrollo (CODESA) which also controls the Refinadora
Costarricense de Petroleo, S.A. (RECOPE). Using RECOPE funds (generated
from gasolíne taxes) for its operating budget, TRANSMESA acts as a financial
intermediary in the public transport field. Its principal activity is to buy
buses in bulk and on favorable credit terms and to resell them to private bus
operators. In this way, private operators can obtain cheaper buses and
TRANSMESA can exercise, through contractual conditions, a degree of control
over their operation and maintenance. 1/ TRANSMESA also plans to promote
innovative bus services such as mini-buses, trolley buses, and other services
using special vehicles for specific purposes. The mission investigated the
potential danger that TRANSMESA might expand its operation and eventually take
over as the public operator of bus services. The appraisal mission received
assurances from both TRANSMESA and MOPT that the Governnent had no intention
of allowing this to happen. Both were aware of the problems that have been
observed in public bus companies in other countries. It is the judgement of
the mission that the risk of TRANSMESA's becoming a public bus operator is
negligible.
2.28      Given the Government's inability to raise bus fares in 1977,
TRANSMESA was authorized to use RECOPE funds to take over part of the repay-
ments that private operators had to make on their new TRANSMESA buses.  The
subsidy was calculated at the ¢ 0.10 attempted fare íncrease multiplied
1/   The DGTA has also performed this operation for taxis in an attempt
to modernize the taxi fleet and gain better control of operations.



- 9 -
by the average monthly passengers carried by a bus. The subsidy is con-
tractually tied to operating conditions established by TRANSMESA, and can
be revoked, for example, if maintenance ls not performed or if unauthorized
drivers are used. The subsidy is also tied to fares and will be eliminated
immediately upon Government action to implement the ¢ 0.10 fare increase.
D. Project Rationale
2.29      The problems arising from the existing and prospective situation
in urban transport in San Jose and the solution whích the proposed project
sets in motion can be summarized as follows. Recent growth of both popu-
lation and car ownership in San Jose has resulted in deteríorating travel
conditions and increasing traffic congestion both in the city center itself
and on the roads leading to the center. Evidence from many other cities
indicates that the effect of such traffic growth will be particularly severe
on buses, threatening the very high current patronage of public transport in
the metropolitan area. Since incomes are likely to continue to rise, there is
every prospect that the situation will become rapidly worse. Thus, while the
proposed project is designed to improve today's traffic condítions, an equally
important objective of the project is to undertake actions that will pre-empt
the potential deterioration in travel conditions and, more specifically,
create conditions under which San Jose's bus system can continue to operate
efficiently and prevent significant shifts to private cars.
2.30      The strategy for achieving these objectives involves, first, a
series of traffic engineering actions to increase the effective capacity of
the road network and, second, the introduction of policy measures to give
greater priority to high occupancy vehicles and to discourage the use of
low occupancy vehicles, especially cars in central San Jose. Together with
priorities for public transport, the traffic engineering measures will ensure
that the projected growth of car ownership and use can be accommodated on
the improved network without leading to severe congestion. In five to eight
years, the car ownershíp level is expected to reach a poínt where increased
road capacity that would be required can no longer be provided at low cost.
If no additional road capacity is provided, severe congestion is likely unless
measures are implemented to restrict the use of cars in central San Jose.
2.31      In designing the project, certain principles were followed that are
rapidly becoming accepted as the basis for modern urban transport planning.
In particular, special importance was attached to four factors. First, given
the absence of an accepted urban development strategy for San Jose and the
lack of effective land use controls over the city's growth, it became important
that the proposed urban transport project should not significantly change San
Jose's growth patterns in a manner which would block future options. Second,
preference was given to low-cost traffic engineering and transport management
techniques to increase the effective capacity of the existing network of roads
and streets. Only where sufficient capacity could not be created through
these measures or when special facilities, such as bus lanes, were necessary
was consideration given to new road construction. Third, urban transport
improvements were aimed primarily at enhancing public transport, including
special facilities to give preferential treatment to buses and to accommodate



- 10 -
pedestrians in safety. Finally, the proposed projec, was viewed as the fírst
step in a continuing program of urban transport monitoring and improvement
based on the above principles. Therefore, the institutional changes required
to create the local capacity to carry out such a program constitute an integral
part of the project.
2.32      These factors resulted in the development o  a ,ro-,ect aimed at
improving the efficiency of the central area network, together with widening
and rehabilitation of radial roads, with little new road construction. The
central area improvements and the radial improvements have been designed to
be compatible and to ensure that the increased flows on the radials do not
lead to increased congestion in the center.
2.33      The TOPICS schemes are largely designed to reiove bottienecks where
the radials enter the central area.  Experience wíth TIPIC (S sehemes in the
USA has shown that intersection through-put ran be Increased up to 10%,
while speeds increase (and hence delays tai  by up to 25%.  Accidents can
be reduced by 50% or more. The CBD traffíc signal system ís also expected
to increase effective capacity significantLy. S,'oreover, road capacity, both
on the radials and in the central area, will. 5e reser-ved for the exclusive
use of buses.  Together, these measures will (a) deal wíth current traffic
problems by increasing capacity and removing bottler,etks and (b) create
sufficient capacity to absorb the growth of traffic in the next few years.
In addition, they will increase the performance of public transport signifi-
cantly.
2.34      It is clear that growing traffic volumes will gradually erode the
improved conditions; the rate of erosion will depencd on the growth of both
population and car ownership. It is important to note that the provísion
of exclusive facilities for buses means that any growtlb ,In car ownership
will have a greater negative effect on the operating conditions of cars than
it will have on buses.  Overall, it is estimated that the network that will
result from the project will provide adequate exclusive bus facílities and
create enough central area and radial capacity, to postpone the need to con-
sider large-scale investments in new roads unti i the xÍld-198Os.  In the
eeŽnt that conditions deteriorate more rapidly, the monitoríng program will
p-. -ide advance warning and permít adequate additional measures to be planned
and implemented.
2.35      This breathing space, together with the creation of local traffic
management capacity, will give the Government both the time and the expertise
necessary to develop the policies and measures that will be required in the
future to give greater priority to high occupancy vehicles and to discourage
the inefficient use of the private car.  If such measures can be effectively
implemented, the necessity for new road coestruction may be considerably
reduced, resulting in substantial savings In urban tran ínrt investment.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Oblectives
3.01      The project aims to relieve the existing and potential near term
problems of moving people and goods in San Jose through:
-    low-cost traffic measures aimed at increasing the effective
capacity of existing transportation facilities and, thus
limiting new road construction to critical links;
-    priority measures for public transport and accommodation of
pedestrian movements; and
-    technícal assistance and training to enhance Costa Rican
understanding of this low-cost approach to urban trans-
port as well as to buíld local capacity to plan, ímple-
ment, and monitor further transport improvementa on an
on-going basis.
B. Main Features
3.02      The project will consist of:
(a) the construction, widening and rehabilitation of roads
radiating from the center of San Jose (radials);
(b) a Traffic Operations Program to Increase Capacity and
Safety (TOPICS) comprising an integrated traffic light
system for the Central Business District (CBD), improve-
ments of intersections, sub-area traffic flow schemes,
traffic dispersal schemes, pedestrian facilities, and
a central area bus circulation plan;
(c) equipment for road maintenance, signing and marking,
traffic regulation enforcement, and construction of a
bus inspection facility;
(d)  technical assistance for project management, traffíc
planning, public transport promotion, traffic regula-
tion enforeement, and road maintenance;
(e) a training program for Minístry of Public Works and
Transport staff concerned with urban transport; and
(f) a land use and urban growth study for the San Jose
Metropolitan Area.



- 12 -
3.03      The above components of the project will be accompanied by a number
of measures designed to improve urban transport planning capacity in San Jose.
These involve the reorganization and staffing of the MOPT uníts responsible
for traffic management and public transport. With respect to the reorganiza-
tion, it was agreed at negotiations that MOPT will, no later than September 30,
1978, establish within DGTA a Publie Transport Department, a Traffic Engineer-
ing Department, and a Transport Policy Studies UTnit and carry out through such
departnients and unit work programs satisfactory to the Bank in public trans-
portation, traffic planning and engineering, and transport policy studies.
C. Detailed Features
Radial Roads
3.04      The radial road component of the project comprises:
-    construction of one new radial;
-    widening (addíng up to two lanes where feasible) of
five radials and Avenida 2;
-    rehabilitation (repaving, repairing gutters, removing
obstructions within the right-of-way) of two radials.
3.05      New Tibas Radial.  The new radial, referred to hereafter as the New
Tibas Radial, (see Map 12935) provides an extension of the San Jose-Siquirres
Highway (Fourth Híghway Project, Loan 1187-CR) southwards into San Jose. The
four lane divided radial is 2.34 km long and ends at Tournon in a 0.51 km long
dispersal scheme with at grade connections to the existing road system. The
detailed design for the radial was done by the same consultants who designed
the San Jose-Siquirres Highway and there are no problems of compatibility.
However, the mission requested the Government to review the interchange designs
on the New Tibas Radial as the highway network assumptions used to derive the
traffic forecasts that determined the original design have changed. Specific-
ally, the beltway is being re-examined and is not expected to be started
before 1985, if at all. The Bank will examine these reviews as part of the
process of approvíng the tender documents. No problems are foreseen.
3.06      Widening of Existing Radials.  The following radial routes are to
be widened (see Map 12935):
(a)  San Pedro Radial (Route 2) -- 2.93 km;
(b)  Dosamparados Radial (Route 4) -- 4 km;
(c)  San Sebastian Radial (Route 214) --  2.78 km;
(d)  Guadalupe Radíal (Route 6) -- 2.64 km;
(e)  Uruca Radial (Route 1) -- 3.76 km; and
(f)  Avenida 2 -- 1 km.



- 13 -
3.07      The design for each of the proposed radial improvements provides
14.6 m for four lanes of travel or 3.67 m per lane. For limited lengths,
where such a width is unobtainable without excessive property acquisition, a
minimum of 13 m is considered acceptable. Curbs, gutters, and drainage will
be provided and appropriate sídewalks included for frontage activity along
each route. To obtain a consistent carriageway width along the radials,
existing river bridges on the Desamparados, San Sebastian, Guadalupe, and
Uruca radials will be rebuilt. The widening program will involve the reloca-
tion of just over one hundred families, of whom about sixty may be considered
poor. No special arrangements are required as this number can easily be
absorbed into existing Government programs. An important criterion in the
selection of routes for wídeníng was the magnítude of bus flows. There-
fore, peak period, curbside bus lanes will be provided along each widened
route.   The lanes will not incorporate physical separation (due to the
problems of access to mixed frontage land use during the remainder of the
day) but will rely on parking prohibition and enforcement for their success.
It was agreed at negotiations that the Government shall take all necessary
action to ensure permanent and consistent enforcement of the Traffíc Regula-
tions in the Metropolitan Area of San Jose including enforcement of parking
prohibitions and regulations limiting access of cars to lanes reserved for
buses during periods of peak-hour traffic flow.
3.08      The widening of Avenida 2 is of a different character to the other
radial widening projects. The proposal will form an extension of the east-
west route through the San Jose city center. The project will convert the
existing Avenida 2 from one-way eastbound to a two-way street. The road
will operate with two lanes used for buses only. Thus, the extension of
Avenida 2 will allow bus lane provision to be extended east-west across
the city.
3.09      Rehabilítation of Existíng Radíals.  The following radial routes
will be rehabilitated (improvements within the existing right-of-way):
(a) Tibas Radial (Route 5) -- 2.70 km; and
(b) Alajuelita Radial (Route 210) -- 3.82 km.
No major changes will be made to the vertical or horizontal alignments of the
roads. Rather the objective is to provide two travel lanes of 3.65 m by
removing lateral obstructions, introducing minor widenings, paving shoulders
where possible and necessary, improving lateral drainage, and repaving the
exístíng road surface. Due to the restricted width of the routes, bus
priority measures are not possible but it is intended to improve passenger
waiting areas and to provide bus-bays to avoid delays to both general traf-
fic and buses during loading at stops.
3.10      Detailed design has been completed for one radial (Desamparados).
Preliminary designs exist for the remainder of the radials to be widened or
improved. The Directorate of Highways (DGV) in MOPT will be responsible for
finalizing all designs. These will then be reviewed by an independent engi-
neer to ensure that sound and economical design standards are employed. It
was agreed that the Government would engage such an engineer and pay him out
of project loan funds. It was further agreed that the engineer's qualifica-
tions and terms of reference shall be acceptable to the Bank.



- 14 -
Traffic Operations Program to Increase Capacity and Safety (TOPICS)
3.11      The TOPICS component of the project consists of:
(a) intersection improvements;
(b) sub-area traffic circulatíon improvements;
(c) dispersal schemes;
(d) pedestrian facilities;
(e) a central area bus circulation plan; and
(f)  a traffic signal system for the CBD.
3.14      intersection Improvements.  Sixteen intersections will be improved
under the project (see Annex 2). The íntersections are located either on the
fringe of the CBD area or at sites in the outer areas of the city which are
not subject to improvement under the radial road component (see Map 12935).
The improvements will increase capacity at low capital cost by the use of
traffic lights, physical channelling, traffic signs to inform or warn drivers,
turn prohibitions, and pavement markíng. In some cases, minor widening will
be necessary but this will be contained within the present right-of-way to
speed implementation and to avoid increased costs.
3.15      Sub-area Improvements.  Sub-area improvements are defined as schemes
which, whíle employing similar techniques to those adopted for intersection
improvements, affect traffic circulation over a wider area than a single inter-
sectíon. Seven such schemes are íncluded in the project and their locations
and the key characteristics are set out in Annex 2 and Map 12935. Particular
emphasis wil be placed on bus operational features in these schemes.
3.16      Dispersal Schemes.  As a consequence of the implementation of the
radial route widening and rehabilitation program, it will be necessary to
províide for the dispersal of traffic at the edges of the central city area.
I-,ese schemes will use one-way systems, traffic lights, channelization, and
other measures to ensure that radial traffic flows can be absorbed into the
central area road network without causing congestion. In some cases, schemes
have been included within particular radial projections, such as the Tournon
dispersal at the end of the New Tibas Radial and the dispersal system asso-
ciated with the San Pedro and Avenida 2 radials, However, two particular
dispersal projects (see Map 12935) require special consideration:
(a) The Plaza Gonzales Viquez Dispersal Scheme is located at
the junetion of the to-be-widened Desamparados Radíal, the
existing Zapote Radial, Calle 9, Calle 11, and other minor
routes. The project provídes for one-way traffic circulation
(with bus lanes) by means of widened streets, linked traffic
signals, and channelization at key íntersections.
(b) The Sabana Sur Dispersal Scheme. Calle 42 on the east
side of La Sabana forms a major riorth-south traffic dís-
tributor with intersections with Avenida de las Americas,



- 15 -
Paseo Colon, Avenida 10 and Route 7 (Escazu Radial).
Traffic conditions, already congested in peak periods,
will deteriorate further in the near future following
the opening of the already constructed Santa Ana
Expressway. The project provides for a linked, multi-
phase signal system, channelization, and turn prohibi-
tions to provide a short-term solution.
3.17      Pedestrian Facilities.  The proposed CBD Traffic Signal System
(see para 3.19) will incorporate pedestrian crossing features in the central
area of the city. Outside the central business district, fewer conventional
traffic signals exist and it ís proposed to install clearly marked, signal
controlled (pedestrian actuated) crossings at 20 important locations adjacent
to schools and commercial area concentrations.
3.18      Central Area Circulation Plan.  The plan will reorganize the use
of certain streets currently used by general traffíc to provide peak hour
bus priority routes and peak períod curbside bus lanes for east-west and
north-south bus flows. Parking would be banned on bus priority routes in
peak periods and, in some cases, left turns would be prohibited. The scheme
also provides for 'bus only' movements on two streets (Calle 7 and Parque
Morazan). The circulation plan will rely for its success on strict enforce-
ment (see paras 3.07, 3.23 and 4.08).
3.19      CBD Traffic Signal System.  The proposed traffic signal system for
San Jose will provide coordinated signal control along the primary routes in
the central area of the city (see Map 12935). It will control traffic signals
at most of the intersections in the area bounded by Avenida 9 in the north and
Avenida 14 in the south amounting to 129 signals. The system is designed to
operate under coordinated fixed time control, with the capacity to select from
a series of previously calculated timing plans the one most suited to prevail-
ing conditions. The calculation of signal plans for various times of day and
days of week will be based on the philosophy of minimizing delay to traffic in
the network and, by use of the latest version of the program TRANSYT, signal
tíming plans will be developed which give maximum advantage to buses. Emer-
gency vehicle pre-emption features along designated routes in the CBD will
be designed into the system.  The specifications permit 27 timing program
combinations and the system can be operated either electromechanically (as
is common with such systems) or electronically by use of solid state control
equipment. In either case, the system has sufficient flexibility to allow
conversion to computer control at a later date should it prove desirable.
3.20      Detailed engineering is complete for two TOPICS schemes and specifi-
cations have been prepared for the CBD signal system. The remaining TOPICS
elements are at preliminary engineering stage. DGV will be responsible for
completing designs which will be reviewed in the same way as the radial
designs (see para 3.10).
Equipment and Buildings
3.21      Equipment for Traffic Control.  To enable DGTA to begin to promote
good traffic management and driver behavior practices, the project will
ínclude a program of improved signs and road markíng. The project wíll
finance equipment for the manufacture of traffic signs and the application



- 16 -
and removal of pavement markings, as well as two special vehicles for use
in traffic signal maintenance. A schedule of equipment included in the
project is presented in Annex 3.
3.22      Equipment for Highway Maintenance.  As part of the project, MOPT
will establish a unit to carry out maintenance of highways in the metropol-
itan area of San Jose (para 4.05). The project includes provision for the
purchase of the equipment that will be necessary to start the maintenance
program. A schedule of the equipment required is presented in Annex 3.
3.23      Traffíc Enforcement Equipment.  Public transport priority treat-
ments and other traffíc regulations (e.g., parking restrictions) to be
implemented as part of this project will work only if traffic enforcement
is effective. The project therefore includes traffic enforcement equipment
(including tow-trucks and radio-communications equípment) for the traffíc
líne under DGT (para 4.08 and Annex 3).
3.24      Bus Inspection Facility and Equipment.  To improve the operational
and safety performance of buses, DGTA intends to increase the regularity and
stringency of bus inspection. As part of the project, it is proposed to con-
struct and equip a bus inspection station that will be capable of inspecting
each bus of the metropolitan fleet once every two months. The facility will
have the capacity to handle up to 350 buses per month and would consist of
ten inspection lanes, inspection píts, a paved maneuvering area, and a records
office. Details of the equipment required are presented in Annex 3. It was
agreed that the Government will cause the bus inspection facility to be oper-
ated by TRANSMESA and to be used solely for the purpose of bus inspection.
Technical Assistance
3.25      Technical assistance under the project (see Annex 4) is intended
to assist Government with (a) the immediate tasks of coordinating and managing
project implementation; (b) start-up of traffic planning and public transport
development; (e) organizing a metropolitan road maintenance unit within
the Ministry's Directorate of Highways (DGV); and (d) a metropolitan land
use study. The project will fund an adviser to the Project Steering Commit-
tee (see para 4.03), two advisers on traffíc planning, two advisers on public
transport, and one adviser on road maintenance for a total of 9-1/2 man-years.
The approach to transport advocated in this project is relatively new to Costa
Rica and the aboye inputs of technical assistance are considered a minimum
requirement to assist Government initiate project implementation. Funds are
also included to provide 33 man-months of technical assistance for the pro-
posed study of land use and urban growth in San Jose. The study will form
the first step in the process of establishing the urban development strategy
that '-, a prerequisite for urban transport planning, in particular, and urban
infraicructure planning in general. Specifically, the study will survey
existing land use, examine likely urban growth patterns, assess their impli-
cations for the programs of agencies responsible for infrastructure provi-
sion, and investigat notential methods of controlling growth, such as zoning
controls. Most of tL- advisory services will be procured from outside Costa



- 17 -
Rica. Man-months rates varying from US$6,000 to US$7,500 have been assumed
in calculating the costs. Advisory services will be procured from individual
consultants or experts attached to consulting firma. The latter would be more
expensive because of overheads and this explains the relatively high man-month
rates.
Training
3.26      To create adequate local capacity to plan and implement urban
transport improvements on on-going basis, the project includes a training
component (see Annex 5). The component consists of:
(a) an in-country training program dealing with traffic
engineering, traffíc planning, and public transport
regulation for DGTA personnel, traffic surveillance
and enforcement for DGT personnel, and seminars in
simple business management techniques for bus operators;
and
(b) training abroad for selected MOPT staff. First, six
senior MOPT managerial staff would attend two to three
month practical field placements in urban transport
management agencies in San Juan, Puerto Rico. San
Juan has recently implemented a set of transport
measures similar to those planned for San Jose and
the placements would be an important orientation for
the Costa Ricans. Second, the project will finance
three scholarships abroad in urban transport planning
and economics. To minimize leakage, only civil ser-
vants with outstanding careers in MOPT would be
eligible. Third, the project will finance the
development of university level traffic engineering
courses to be taken by engineering students in
Costa Rica.
3.27      It was agreed that, prior to implementing the training program,
MOPT will furnish to the Bank, for its approval, a detalled description of
the program. The Mínistry issued a statement on training for MOPT by the
Minister (see Annex 5, Attachment 1). The MOPT Training Section will be
strengthened to implement the training program. Roughly 4-1/2 man-years of
expatriate instructors 1/ will be provided under the project. These will
be complemented by at least equivalent inputs from the Costa Rica side.
The instructors are costed at US$6,000 per man-month. It was agreed at
negotiations that three training instructors will be appointed by June 30,
1978.
1/   See Annex 5, Attachment 2 for job description.



- 18 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.28      Total project costs at the expected negotiations base date of
October 1977, are estimated at ¢ 270.54 (US$31.46) million of which ¢ 141.89
(US$16.50) million is foreign exchange. Land acquisition costs amount to
¢ 69.66 (US$8.1) million or 26% of total costs including contingencies. 1/
Over 80% of the land costs are for the radial improvements, including 45%
for the New Tibas Radial. The proposed loan will not cover land acquisition.
3.29      Cost estimates for the New Tibas Radial Route and the CBD Traffic
Signal System are based on final designa. Except for the Desamparados radial
and two TOPICS schemes for which detailed engineering i avaílable, estimates
for the widening and rehabilitation of the radial routes, the TOPICS program,
and the bus inspection facility are based on preliminary designs. Equipment
costs are based on current Costa Rican prices for equivalent equipment.
3.30      Physícal contingencies amount to 10% for the New Tibas Radial, 20%
for radials to be widened and rehabilítated, and 15% for the TOPICS program
(includíng the CBD Traffic Signals System) and for the bus inspection facility.
The 20% physical contingency for radíal improvements reflects the difficulties
inherent in estimating costs for this type of component, especially given the
problems of executing the project within the existing urban fabric, with the
requirement to maintain an adequate level of traffic flow during construction.
Price contingencies represent the mission's best estimate of required contin-
gency allowances in Costa Rica and in 1977-79 amount to 9% and 7.5% for civil
works and equipment, respectively. For 1980 and following years, the rates
are 8% and 7% for the respective categories. For technical assistance and
training, price contingencies amount to 10%.
3.31      The project costs are summarized in the next table.
1/ See Annex 6 for a detailed analysis of land costs.



- 19 -
PROJECT COSTS
Colones (million)         US$ (million)
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Radial Routes
New Tibas Radial                      9.45   22.03   31.48       1.10    2.56    3.66
San Pedro Widening                    2.70    6.31    9.01       0.31    0.73    1.05
Desamparados Widening                 1.76    4.11    5.87       0.20    0.48    0.68
San Sebastian Widening                2.70    6.29    8.99       0.31    0.73    1.05
Alajuelita Rehabilitation             1.83    4.27    6.10       0.21    0.50    0.71
Guadelupe Widening                    2.82    6.59    9.41       0.33    0.77    1.09
Tibas Rehabilitation                  1.19    2.76    3.95       0.14    0.32    0.45
Uruca Widening                        6.23   14.55   20.78       0.73    1.69    2.42
Avenida 2 Widening                    1.01    2.36    3.37       0.12    0.27    0.39
Subtotal              29.69   69.27   98.96       3.45    8.05   11.50
Right-of-way Cost                    57.42      -     54.42      6.68      -      6.68
Total Component       87.11   69.27  156.38    10.13    8.05   18.18
TOPICS
Intersection Improvements             0.92    2.14    3.06       0.10    0.25    0.35
Sub-area Improvements                 1.03    2.39    3.42       0.12    0.28    0.40
Díspersal Schemes                     0.99    2.33    3.32       0.12    0.27    0.39
Pedestrian Crossings                  0.54    1.25    1.79       0.06    0.15    0.21
Central Area Circulation Plan         0.16    0.37    0.53       0.02    0.04    0.06
Subtotal               3.64    8.48   12.12       0.42    0.99    1.41
Right-of-way Cost                     4.29      -      4.29      0.50      -      0.50
Total Component        7.93    8.48   16.41       0.92    0.99    1.91
Equipment
CBD Traffic Signal Syste              3.50    7.44   10.94       0.41    0.87    1.28
DGTA Equipment                         -       1.23    1.23       -      0.14    0.14
DGT Equipment                          -       3.59    3.59       -       0.42    0.42
Road Maintenance Equípment             -       6.26    6.26       -      0.73    0.73
Bus Inspection Facility               0.98    1.81    2.79       0.11    0.21    0.32
Subtotal               4.48   20.33   24.81       0.52    2.36    2.88
Right-of-way Cost                     0.91      -      0.91      0.11     -       0.11
Total Component        5.39   20.33   25.72       0.63    2.36    2.99
Technical Assistance
Total Component        2.06    6.28    8.34       0.24    0.73    0.97
Training Component
Total Component        1.98    4.73    6.71       0.23    0.55    0.78
Total Excluding Contingencies          104.47  109.09  213.56    12.15   12.68   24.83
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                6.21   14.32   20.53      0.72    1.67    2.39
Price Contingencies                  17.97   18.48   36.45      2.09    2.15    4.24
TOTAL PROJECT                          128.65  141.89  270.54    14.96   16.50   31.46



- 20 -
E. Financing Plan
3.32      The proposed Bank loan of US$16.5 million would finance 100% of
foreign costs, about 52% of total project costs. The loan would be to the
Government of Costa Rica.
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.33      Contracts for the radial route construction, widening, and rehabil-
itation (estimated total value US$11.50 million excluding contingencies and
right-of-way costs) and for the supply and installation of the CBD Traffic
Signal System and for the supply of other equipment (estimated total value
US$2.99 million excluding contingencies) will be let on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In order
to obtain competitive bids as well as to facilitate participation by local
contractors, radial improvements would be grouped in such a way that bidders
would have the opportunity to bid on works for one or several radials accord-
ing to the contractors capacity. Procurement of equipment for signing and
marking, enforcement, road maintenance, and the bus inspection facility will
be on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Some of the equipment might be obtained from manufacturers in
the Central American Common Market area of which Costa Rica is a member.
Costa Rica has requested that such manufacturers be granted a preference
of 15% of the c.i.f. landed price or 50% of the import duties whichever is
lower.
3.34      Contracts for the construction of the TOPICS schemes will be on
the basis of local competitive bidding. This is justified in view of the
relatively low contract sums involved (US$1.41 million for the total pro-
gram comprising some 60 schemes) and the techniques and local knowledge
that will have to be employed to construct small-scale road schemes while
maintaining traffic flow in a busy urban environment. Local bidding pro-
cedures have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory.
3.35      Disbursements will be for 70% of total expenditures for radial
improvements (excluding land) and TOPICS schemes; 100% of foreign expendí-
tures or 85% of local expenditures for. equipment; 100% of foreign expendí-
tures or 75% of total expenditures for technical assistance, 100% of foreign
expenditures or 70% of total expenditures for training. Disbursements would
be fully documented. Savings, if any, on completion of the project should be
applied to additional TOPICS schemes meeting Bank approval. The schedule of
estimated disbursements is shown in Annex 7.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.36      It was agreed during negotiations that each MOPT Directorate will
maintain separate project accounts and that the Ministry will maintain a
consolidated project account. These accounts will be audited annually in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank and the audited accounts forwarded to the
Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.



- 21 -
H. Implementation Schedule
3.37      The implementation schedule is presented in Chart 17642.  Project
implementation will take approximately three years assuming a start date
of January 1978. Care will be required in the coordination and phasing of
activities: all land acquisition should be completed by the end of 1978 with
some of it required by mid 1978; traffic dispersal schemes should be in place
prior to the completion of the radial widening rehabilitation program; and the
supply of traffic signals on all contracts should be coordinated to ensure
compatibility.
1. Pre-Implementation Public Information Program
3.38      Certain parts of the project include innovatíons for San Jose, for
example, changing Avenida 2 to two-way operation, introducing the Central
Area Circulation Plan to give priority to buses, establishing strict parking
bans and control of cars using bus lanes. Before implementing these measures,
the Governnent will take steps to inform the public of the proposed changes
and to explain the reasons for them. The implementation of the public infor-
mation program will be phased to enable appropriate adjustments to responses
to any oppositíon which might arise.
J. Monitoring by Government
3.39      The Government will undertake a program of monitoring in San Jose
(a) to provide a basis for making adjustments to the progrars financed under
the project; (b) to improve a more detailed local understanding of the pro-
grams as a basis for designing follow-up programs; and (c) to evaluate the
operational performance of the programs. The monitoring program will encom-
pass three levels of activity:
(a) Functional Monitoring. This type of monitoring is aimed
at providing rapid feedback to the implementing agencies
on the functional and operating characteristics of the proj-
ect components, specifically the TOPICS program, the exclu-
sive bus lanes, and CBD Traffic Signal System. For TOPICS
the monitoring would include observations and counts to
determine the effectiveness of channelization and the in-
crease in capacity as well as measurements of any reduc-
tions in delay and accidents. For bus lanes, running
speeds would be measured together with observations on the
effectiveness of provisions for right turns, access to
frontage activities, and enforcement. For signals, it will
be necessary to monitor flows and delays to ensure that the
signal timings are correctly set.



- 22 -
(b)  Monitoring of Service Standards.  This program will measure
the changes in travel service standards for both public
transport and private car users. Specific variables moni-
tored would be travel time (in-vehicle, walking, waiting),
travel cost, frequency of bus services, failure to pick up
waiting passengers, etc. Some measurements will be made on
a route by route, corridor by corridor basis; others, due
to the interactions that are expected among the effects of
different project components especially in the central area,
shotuld be monitored on the basis of a city-wide sample of
trips.
(c) Macro-level Monitoring. One of the objectives of the proj-
ect is to maintain the proportion of trips currently carried
by public transport. Thus, it is important to monitor the
modal split in San Jose, particularly for trips entering
the CBD.
3.40      The advisers (see para 3.25) will assist MOPT in defining the
details of the monitoring program. At negotiations, it was agreed that
the Government shall, through MOPT, establish a monitoring program satis-
factory to the Bank no later than December 31, 1978.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization for Implementation
4; 0]     The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) has overall
responslbility for transport policy, programming, arid regulation in Costa
Rica.  Although provinces and municipalities are supposed to share respon-
slblilties, especially for the maintenance of roads in their jurisdictions,
they lack both financial and technical capacity. Therefore, MOPT carries
1- rthis function in practice and the bulk of the proposed urban transport
ect will be carried out by the Ministry through its various units.  The
sol- exception will be the land use and urban growth study which will be
carried out by consultants under the supervision of the National Office of
Planning (OFIPLAN).
4.0Q      Three units of the Ministry, called Directorates (see Chart 17644)
will participate in project implementation.  The Directorate of Highways (DGV)
will oversee the design, contracting, and contract supervision associated with
both the construction, widening, and rehabilitation of the radials and the
TOPICS schemes. DGV will also carry out the program of road maintenance in
the metropolitan area, including project roads. The Directorate of Automotive
Transport (DGTA) will be responsible for traffic planning and management and
public transport development. Traffic enforcement will be handled by the
Directorate of Traffic (DGT). The Project Manager of MOPT will oversee the
training program.



- 23 -
4.03      To ensure coordination, the Ministry has created by Executive Decree
a San Jose Urban Transport Project Committee consisting of the directors of
the three directorates referred to above, the Dire,ttor General of the Planning
Dírectorate (DGP), and the Executive Director of TRANSMESA.  The Chairman of
the Committee is of Vice Minister rank. The Committee will oversee project
implementation which will be the responsibility of the Costa Rican Project
Manager. The Government has requested that an expatriate adviser to the
Committee be funded under the technical assistance component of the project
(para 3.25). It was agreed at negotiations that the Project Manager will be
hired by December 31, 1977, and that the adviser to the Committee will be
appointed and installed at duty station by March 1, 1978. It was further
agreed that the experience, qualifications, and terms of reference of both
the manager and the adviser shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
4.04      DGV.  The Directorate of Highways (DGV) was appraised by the
Bank in December 1974 under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR) and
strengthened through technical assistance for planning and design. DGV has
the capacity to carry out project design, contracting, and contract supervi-
sion.
4.05      As part of this project, a new unit will be created in DGV for
street maintenance in the San Jose metropolitan area. 1/ The Unit will be
housed in DGV until appropriate metropolitan government reforms are instituted
at which time the Unit would be detached from MOPT. The unit will operate
initially with equipment financed under the project and with manpower re-
sources over and above those now earmarked for maintaining national roads.
The unit will start small and maintain streets with high bus volumes includ-
ing those improved under the project but will in time assume responsibility
for maintaining all major roads in the metroplitan area. In addition, it
will enter into appropriate arrangements with the Directorate of Operations
for the maintenance and repair of equipment financed under the project. To
help set up the unit and define its work program, a technical adviser is
being funded for a two year period as part of the technical assistance com-
ponent of the project. At negotiations, it was agreed that the road main-
tenance adviser will be appointed by June 30, 1978, and that a road mainte-
nance unit with work program and staffíng pattern satisfactory to the Bank
will be created by September 30, 1978.
4.06      DGTA.  The Directorate of Automotive Transport (DGTA) will be
responsible for public transport development and traffic planning and engi-
neering - two aspects crucial to the realization of project objectives.
1/   The radial improvements will result in a small increase in annual main-
tenance costs of ¢ 332,000 (US$38,600) of which ¢ 94,000 (US$10,900) is
for the New Tibas Radial. This does not represent a significant increase
in MOPT's q 88.4 million (US$10.3 million) annual maintenance budget.



- 24 -
DGTA is not currently organized satisfactorily to carry out its responsi-
bilities. The Consultants who prepared the project recommended that the
Directorate be reorganized to consolidate the various traffic planning
and public transport functions which are now scattered in the Ministry.
The Consultants recommendations are shown in Chart 17643 and also discussed
ín Annex 8 and Annex 9. The Government will reorganize DGTA along the lines
described in para 3.03.
4.07       In addítion to the reorganization, DGTA needs to expand and
strengthen its technical staff. First, certain new staff are required to
ensure the effective implementation of the project's physical components.
Specifically, for the CBD Traffic Signals System, three technicians to
carry out the traffic signal timing surveys and an Installation and Mainte-
nance Manager are required. It was agreed at negotiations that the three
technicians will be hired by January 1, 1978 and the maintenance manager by
March 31, 1978. For the signing and marking program, two senior technicians
are required to develop a systematic program of inspection and maintenance.
It was agreed at negotiations that one will be hired by March 31, 1978, and
the other by September 30, 1978. To support the advisory staff being pro-
vided under the project and to carry out basic policy studies, a Traffic and
Transport Policy Studies Unit wíll be established. In addition to the expa-
triate advisers, the unit should contain at least two well-traíned staff
members, preferably one engineer and one economist, together with adequate
support staff.  It was agreed at negotiations that these staff will be hired
by March 31, 1978. The reorganized Directorate will also require expert
support in the form of advisory services in both traffic planning and public
transport (see para 3.25). This is being financed under the technical assis-
tance component of the project as described in Annex 4. It was agreed at
negotiations that the advísers, whose qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, will be recruited no later than September 30, 1978, and by June 30,
1978 in the case of the road maintenance adviser.
4.08       DGT.  The Directorate of Traffic (DGT) is the traffic police agency
which will be responsible for traffic enforcement. It is reasonably well
staffed and can carry out its functions provided it is better equipped and
its personnel receive on-the-job training. The project will finance addi-
tional traff lc enforcement equipment and two man-years of an adviser/trainer
for the Directorate. In addition, the Government has brought DGT clearly
under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport and has undertaken to pro-
vide the facilitíes, personnel, and basic equipment that DGT will require
to carry out its funetion of enforcing traffic regulations.
4.09      MOPT Training Unit.  The unit responsible for training currently
consísts of the unit chief plus one junior assistant. It needs strengthening.
The project will attempt to achieve this in three ways. 1/ First, MOPT will
1/   See Annex 5 for detaíls.



- 25 -
articulate a specific training poiícy for the Ministry in the form of a state-
ment to be issued by the Minister.  The draft of the statement will be dis-
cussed at negotiations. Second, the unit will be strengthened by the addition
of several part-time Costa Rican technician/instructors to carry out on-the-
job training, supplemented by three expatriate instructors. Thirdly, the unit
will coordinate the implementation of an in-country training program to be
financed under the project and to include (a) technical training in traffic
engineering and public transport planning and regulation for DGTA staff; (b)
training for the traffic police in traffic surveillance and enforcement; (c)
training for bus operators in accounting, management, maintenance, etc. In
addition, six senior MOPT staff will undergo practical training in Puerto Rico
and three scholarships will be given for graduate study abroad. Finally, two
foreign experts will be hired to develop urban transport curricula at local
universities. Staff trained abroad will sign an understanding to remain with
MOPT for five years after completing their study programs.  Detailed training
programs will be developed by the training specialists responsible for each
area.
4.10      OFIPLAN.  The Urban and Regional Planning Division of OFIPLAN will
supervise the implementation of the metropolitan urban development study.
The study itself will be carried out by consultants. The division will
prepare the terms of reference and choose the consultants. It was agreed
at negotiations that OFIPLAN will employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience, terms of reference, and terms and conditions of employment will
be satísfactory to the Bank.
B. Selected Implementation Activities
Traffic Planning
4.11      In order to begin to develop plans for the traffic management
actions that will be taken to follow-up and consolidate the gains made under
the project, the Traffic Planning Unit in the MOPT Department of Traffic
Engineering will undertake a program of analysis 1/ to develop (a) a pro-
gram for the expansion of exclusive bus facilities; (b) a acheme for giving
priority to other high occupancy vehicles (e.g., car pools) and discour-
aging the inefficient use of cars; and (c) a policy to cover parking supply
and rates. The staff of the DGTA Traffic and Transport Polícy Studies Unit
with assistance from expatriate advisers will assist the Traffic Planning
Unit to carry out the study of measures to discourage the inefficient use of
the car, specifically when used by one or two persons for commuting trips.
The study will examine potential measures and evaluate them in the context of
the congestion problem, their physical and operational feasibility, and the
legal structure in San Jose. The specific responsibility of the Policy
Studies Unit will be to evaluate long-run measures, such as taxes on ownership
and road pricing, while the Traffic Planning Unit concentrates on short-run
1/   See Annex 8.



- 26 -
rmeasures. It was agreed that MOPT will carry out the above studies in accord-
ance wíth terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and that such studies
Jill be reviewed with the Bank by June 30, 1979. After reviewing the results
with the Bank, the Government will present to the Bank for comment by December
31, 1979 a statement of the resultíng urban transport policies and afford the
Bank opportunity to exchange views with MOPT concerning such policies prior
Lo their promulgation.
Publíc Transport
4.12      In order to increase the efficiency of both bus operations and
bus regulatory procedures, the MOPT Department of Public Transport will
undertake studies 1/ of (a) the adequacy of bus services, including the
route structure, the capacity provided, its effect on headways and passen-
ger delay, and the potential for innovative types of services; (b) the
level of fares, with a view to developing a procedure for monitoring the
relatíonship between fares and costs, and hence the necessity for or ade-
quacy of a subsidy; (c) the structure of fares; (d) the procedures for
granting concessions, including their effíciency, the time taken, and the
degree of competition generated; and (e) operating specifications for buses
and a bus inspection program. It was agreed that by June 30, 1979 the Gov-
ernment will undertake, with the Bank, a review of the fíndings of such
studies.  It was further agreed that the government would prepare and submit
,o the Bank no later than December 31, 1979 proposed modifications to public
transport policy and afford the Bank reasonable opportunity for comment before
carrying out such policy.
4.13      Early in 1978, the Government expects to increase bus fares and
eliminate the public transport subsidy. It was agreed that immediately
following the fare increase, the Government will initiate a study of the
effects of this policy on the urban poor, specifically addressing the afford-
ability of public transport and the impact of allowing fares to cover costs
on the travel patterns and to employment opportunities of the urban poor. It
-was further agreed that in the event that the subsidy has not been eliminated
by June 1978, the Government wíll undertake a study of the incidence, effec-
ti-veness, and the potential fiscal burden of continuing the public transport
s; .idy and that while this study is being undertaken, existing subsidies will
be frozen and no new ones will be introduced.  It was also agreed that MOPT
wíll review the subsidy study with the Bank by June 30, 1979, and a timetable
established by December 31, 1979 for implementing policy changes that may be
proposed.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
5.01i     The objectives of the proposed project are to increase the physical
and operatíng capacíty of the San Jose urban transport system in order initial-
ly to improve current travel conditions and subsequently to prevent conditions,
1/   See Annex 9.



- 27 -
especíally for public transport, from deteriorating. Complementary actions
are designed to create the institutional capacity, in both administrative and
operational terms, that will ensure that the project is implemented expedi-
tiously, that the physical components are operated and maintained efficíently,
and that the concepts of this project can be replicated in San Jose, in the
future, using local planning and implementation capacity.
A. Expected Benefits
5.02      The physical project components--civil works, traffic signals, --
are justified in terms of the benefits that they are expected to generate
directly or indirectly. The benefits from radial roads and from the CBD
Traffic Signal System have been assessed on the basis of operating condi-
tions (speeds, etc.). No new traffie engineering measures, such as bus
lanes, either on the radials or in the CBD, were taken into consideration
(see para 5.09 below). The benefits include increased travel speed and
smoother flowing traffic leading to inter alia reduced operating costs,
travel times, air pollution, and accidents. More than half of these bene-
fits are expected to accrue to users of public transport. The other com-
ponents--the equipment for traffic planning and enforcement, highway main-
tenance, and bus inspection, the technical assistance, and the training-are
justified because they are expected to increase road capacity and improve
traffic flow, particularly of buses in the CBD, and will enable bstter use
to be made of roads and vehicles. No quantitative analysis of benefits has
been carried out for the latter type of component. For the aain physical
components, benefits were estimated in quantitative terms and, where appro-
priate, an economic evaluation was performed.
Economic Evaluation: Radials
5.03      The measures of benefit resulting from new construction, widening,
and rehabilitation on radial routes include the reductions in vehicle oper-
ating costs and travel times that result from the improvements. This is not
to imply that these are the only benefits. Reductions are also expected
in air pollution and accidents, but due to the difficulties inherent in
estimating such benefits, they have not been included in the analysis. This
means that the benefits that are measured represent a conservative estimate
of the total benefits from the project. Benefits were estimated by first
forecasting traffic flows in the different corridors for 1990, interpolating
flow estimates for 1977-89, and assuming that traffic would continue at 1990
levels until 2000. It is important to note that, because of the topography
of San Jose and the necessity for bridges in most corridors, each corridor
basically constitutes a distinct connection. Thus, interactions and spill-
overs between corridors are small. This enabled the analysis to proceed on
a corridor by corridor basis taking account only of interactions on different
roads in the same corridor, for example, the old route and the new route in
the Tibas corridor. Travel speeds for a given alternative were estimated on
the basis of traffic flows forecasts and the capacities of the road for that
alternative and for an unimproved state representing what might be expected
to happen if no investment took place. Time and vehicle operating costs



- 28 -
were derived from the speed estimates which reflect the congestion on the city
streets. Benefits were then calculated by determining the savings in travel
timies and vehicle operating costs for the different alternatives in each
corridor as compared with the unimproved base case. These alternatives
included not only the "do nothing" alternative, but also other less expensive
alternatives (rehabilitation vs widening) and, where appropriate, »ore expen-
sive alternatives (new construction Qn a different alignment vs widening).
In Hatillo, two alignments of different lengths and standards were analyzed.
In Desemparados, a long and a short version of new radial construction were
examnined. In addition, the appraisal mission considered different alignments
for the New Tibas Radial. It was, however, concluded that, given the fixed
route of the Siquirres-San Jose highway and the limited options for the
Tournoa dispersal system, other alignments were clearly inferior to that
proposed by the consultants and the Government.
5.04      Table 5.1. shows the different alternatives that were tested for
each corridor, together with their Net Present Values (NPV) (present value
of benefits minus present value of costs discounted at 12%) 1/. In each
case the NPV's were calcu,lated against a "do-nothing" base. The chosen
alternatives are marked with an asterisk (*).
5.05      It is important that the evaluation method 2/ show not only that
the chosen alternative is worthwhile compared to doing nothing but also that
it is superior to more and/or less expensive projects. The aet present val-
ues show that, in cases where widening was chosen, it is clearly a better
alternative than rehabilitating (for example, San Sebastian and Uruca) or
constructing a a new radial (f or example, Desamparados). In both cases in
which new construction alternatives were considered, the new construction
w~as shown to be inferior in the sense that additional benefits from new
construction were not large enough to justify the additional costs.
1/   T e' ch-Qce of discount rate was based on discussions with the Ministry of
Economy.



- 29 -
Table 5.1. Net Present Values /1
(million 1977 Colones)
Radial and                           Vehicle
Alternatives                         Operating        Time         Total          Chosen
Tested                            Costs Only      Savings     Benefits      Alternative
1.  New Tibas Radial and
Rehabilitating Route 5              77.85        113.96        191.81           *
2. Guadalupe:
Rehabilitate                      18.47          9.37         27.84
Widen                             16.77         16.54        33.31           *
3. San Pedro:
Widen                            105.53         77.56       183.09           *
4. Desamparados:
Widen                            105.47         70.73       176.20           *
Widen and New Road (short)        89.50         83.56       173.06
Widen and New Road (long)         78.95        87.98        166.93
5. San Sebastian:
Rehabilitate                      55.59         42.05        97.63
Widen                             68.48         63.44       131.92           *
6. Hatillo:
Rehabilitate                       9.69          5.11         14.80          *
Rehabilitate and New Route
(Calle 22)                    -15.90         11.01         -4.89
Rehabilitate and New Route
(Calle 28/36)                 -14.01          8.84         -5.17
7. Uruca:
Rehabilitate                      45.76         36.59        82.35
Widen                             95.16         95.37       190.53           *
8. Avenida 2:
Widen                             20.52         22.09        42.61           *
/1   Using a discount rate of 12%.



- 30 -
oi.06     The chosen alternatives were those with the highest NPV's.  In
most cases, the chosen projects are justifíed economically on the basis of
-.hicle operating cost savings alone.  The addition of travel time savíngs
simply serves to strengthen the justification. In the case of the Guadalupe
radíal, rehabilitation is a marginally better alternative when only operating
costs are considered, but widening is clearly superior if time savings are
included. From a traffic point of view, the widening is required at the inner
end of the radial and it would create a poor functional design to rehabilitate
to almost four lanes on the outer part of the radial while leaving a two-lane
bottleneck near the city center. Thus, the widening alternative was selected
for the Guadalupe radial.
5t-07     The benefit-cost ratíos (excluding time savings) for these components
tange from 2.33 for Avenida 2 to 18.77 for Desamparados. The Internal Rates
o£ Return range from 21% for Avenida 2 to 70% for Desamparados. 1/ In general,
these components perform very strongly on all the economic criteria. These
results confírm the expectation that traffic engineering schemes yield high
returns at relatively low cost.
5.08      Distribution of Benefits.  Benefits in the form of savings in pri-
vate car operating costs and travel time will accrue directly to car owners.
Savings in bus travel times will accrue directly to bus passengers. Savings
ín bus operating costs will accrue to bus operators. Apart from the ad hoc
subsídy to bus fares referred to in para 2.25 above, fares in San Jose are set
on the basis of operating costs plus a "fair" return and the bus industry is
co-mpetitive.  Therefore, bus operating cost savings are likely to be passed on
to bus riders through avoiding fare increases and providing a more frequent,
more reliable, and less crowded service. A less tangible but crucially
ímportant result of this is that the current high level of bus patronage is
expected to be maintained. This means that the modal shift towards cars can
be reduced and, hence, increases in congestion and the concommitant deteriora--
tion in bus services can be contained. Savings in truck operating costs and
drivers' time will accrue to truck operators. These reduced transport costs
will be reflected in lower overall production costs.
5.,Wc?f    Gíven that one of the project objectives is to improve publíc
L-:1.Usport, it is important that the share of project benefits that are to
be channelled to bus users can be shown to be sígnificant. For the compo-
nents discussed above, 51% of all benefits accrue to bus operators and pas-
sengers. Of the total benefits to vehicles, bus opertors and passengers
receive 22% of the aggregate savings in vehicle operating costs and 78%
of the time savings. On corridors with heavier bus flows for which bus
lanes would be províded under the project, the proportion is considerably
higher. In San Pedro, for example, 47% of operating cost and 91% of time
savings accrue to public transport and on Avenida 2 the proportions are
1/   Benefit-cost ratios and internal rates of return were also calculated
against a do-nothing alternative. See Annex 10 for details.



- 31 -
40% of operating costs and 89% of time savings. In the above analysis, it
was not possible to account for the specific benefits that might be expected
to result from the bus lanes. Sínce effective bus lanes will increase bus
speeds even more relative to car speeds, 51% is a conservative estimate of
the proportion of benefits expected to accrue to bus passengers and operators.
5.10      Sensitivity Tests.  In order to test the robustness of the economic
analysis of the chosen alternatives, sensitivity tests were carried out to
evaluate the alternatives under the assumption that benefits had been over-
estimated by 10% or 25%. Table 5.2 shows the benefit-cost ratios and the
internal rates of return for the chosen alternative for these assumptions
and for the basic (best estimate of benefits) case. These figures show that,
even if benefits have been overestimated by 25%, all the components are still
economically justified. The lowest cost-benefit ratio is 1.75 and the lowest
internal rate of return is 18 (both for the Avenida 2 widening) and both of
these are perfectly acceptable.
Table 5.2.  Sensitivity Test on Benefit Cost
Ratios and Internal Rate of Return ]4
Benefit - Cost Ratio       Internal Rate of Return (%)
- - - Benefits - - -       - - - - Benefits - - -
Base    -10%    -25%       Base     -10%       -25%
New Tibas Radial and
Rehabiíitate Route 5         2.42    2.18    1.82        22        20         18
Guadalupe Widening           2.74    2.47    2.06        28        26        23
San Pedro Widening          11.51   10.36    8.64        55       52         47
Desamparados Widening       18.77   16.89   14.07        70        66        60
San Sebastian Widening       9.80    8.82    7.35        68       64         57
Alajuelita Widening
(Hatillo)                 3.10    2.79    2.33        31        29         25
Uruca Widening               6.44    5.80    4.83        40       38         34
Avenida 2 Widening           2.33    2.10    1.75        21       19         18
/1   Vehícle operatíng costs only.



- 32 -
Economic Evaluation: CBD Traffic Signal System
5.11      The CBD Traffíc Signal System was evaluated on the basis of a simu-
lation of the effects of the system on 30 downtown intersections using the
TRANSYT simulation model of the Transport and Road Research Laboratory (UK).
These effects were then extrapolated to the 129 intersetions to be included
in the system. The major benefits from the system are expected to be smoother
trafiíc flows resulting in reduced operating costs and travel times and the
concommitant reductions in air pollution and accidents.  Since the traffic
signal timing will be set to favor buses, the largest benefíts will accrue
to public transport. Bus speeds are expected to rise by 11%, car speeds by
6% or 7%. For buses, the benefit estimate has been obtained by calculating
the reduction that the savings in operating costs would imply for the bus
fleet if today's service levels were to be maintained.  In fact, competition
on existing línes means that, rather than reduce the fleet, bus operators
are likely to expand services and delay increases in fares. Table 5.3 shows
the benefits that have been estimated for the first year of operation. Since
1977 traffic flows were used for the test and the first full year of opera-
tion will be 1979, these figures understate the benefits. Of all benefits
59% wíll accrue to bus operators and passengers. Given a capital cost of
C11.5 million, these benefits give first year rates of return of 26% when
only operating costs are considered and 44% when time and savings are in-
cluded. Since traffíc will clearly grow in central San Jose, the returns
over the life of the system will be considerably larger than this.
Table 5.3. Estimated Benefits from the CBD Traffic Signal
System in the Fírst Year of Operation
(« million)
Vehicle
Operating           Time
Costs            Savings             Total
Cars and Trucks          1.4               0.7                 2.1
Buses                    1.6               1.4                3.0
Total     3.0                2.1                5.1
5.12      The overall rate of return on the quantified components--radials
and the CBI, Traffic Signal System--which represent 79% of project costs,
-s 37/1.



- 33 -
B. Risks
5.13      Two specific risks exist that might reduce the project's effective-
ness in meeting its objectives. They are described below together with the
steps that have been taken to minimize the risks.
5.14      Government Capacity to Take Follow-up Actions.  One of the objec-
tives of the project is to increase Government capacity to carry out a con-
tinued program of traffic and public transport planning. There is always a
risk that the Government might not develop adequate capacity to carry through
the follow-up actions. The program of technical assistance and training is
aimed at creating the basic capacity. Work programs and studies in these
areas will be agreed at negotiations, together with a series of consultations
with the Bank on the choice of new policy measures and on the appropriate
implementation schedules.
5.15      Enforcement of Traffíc Regulations.  The effectiveness of the ex-
clusive bus facilities proposed under the project might well be compromised
by inadequate enforcement of traffic regulations regarding parking and the
use of private cars in bus lanes. The authoritíes do not have a good record
in this area. The major difficulties will be catching people driving in bus
lanes and removing cars parked in bus lanes. The first problem is one of
policing a large number of lanes. The second is one of removing the vehi-
cles quickly so that traffic is obstructed as little as possible. The proj-
ect would provide patrol cars and motor-cycles to improve the mobility of
the policy, tow-trucks to remove vehicles, and radio-communication equipment
to ensure that the tow-trucks can be called upon without delay. The trainer/
adviser will develop enforcement procedures and provide instruction on en-
forcement techniques. In addition, the bus lane monitoring program will
provide early warning of problems in this area. Above all, enforcement will
be approached flexibly and Bank project supervision missions will place em-
phasis on assisting Government devise administrative ways of overcoming
resistance to change which might occur. A key element will be public edu-
cation to explain to car drivers the purpose of the bus lanes and the neces-
sity for them to be kept clear. A system of bus lane patrols by the police
will also have to be developed to ensure that a driver driving or parking in
a bus lane has a high probability of being caught. Finally, should these
measures prove to be inadequate, consideration will have to be given to the
feasibility of introducing physical, permanent or semi-permanent separation
for bus lanes, such as hemispheres or "speed bumps." It is believed that
these measures will be adequate to overcome any enforcement problems.
VI. AGREEMENT REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
6.01      During negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) MOPT will no later than September 30, 1978 establish
within DGTA a Public Transport Department, a Traffic
Engineering Department, and a Transport Policy Studies



- 34 -
Unit and carry out through such departments and unit
work programs satisfactory to the Bank in public trans-
portation, traffic planning and engineering, and trans-
port policy studies (para 3.03);
(b) Government shall take all necessary action to ensure
permanent and consistent enforcement of the traffic
regulations in the Metropolitan Area of San Jose in-
ciuding enforcement of parking prohibitions and regu-
lations limíting access of cars to lanes reserved for
buses during periods of peak hour traffic flow (para
3.07);
(e) an independent consultant engineer will review all
detailed designs of radials and TOPICS to ensure that
sound and economical design standards are employed
(paras 3.10 and 3.20);
(d) Government will cause the bus inspection facility to
be operated by TRANSMESA and to be used solely for the
purpose of bus inspection (para 3.24);
(e) prior to implementi.ng the training program, MOPT will
furnish to the Bank for its approval a detailed descrip-
tion of the program (para 3.27);
(f) MOPT Directorates will maintain separate project accounts
and MOPT will maintain a consolidated project account. These
accounts should be audited annually in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank and forwarded to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year (para 3.36);
(g) Government shall through MOPT establish a project moni-
toring program satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.40);
(h) MOPT shall appoint the following staff whose experience,
qualífícations and terms of reference shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank: three expatriate train.ng specialísts by
June 30, 1978 (para 3.27); a project manager by December 31,
1977 (para 4.03); and the adviser to the Project Committee
by March 1, 1978; three technícians to carry out traffic
signal training surveys by January 1, 1978; one signal
InstallatCon and Maintenance Manager by March 31, 1978;
two senior technícians for the sígníng and marking program
by March 31, 1978 and September 30, 1978; one economist and
one engineer for the Traffic and Transport Policy Studies
Unit by March 31, 1978; five other advisers no later than
September 30, 1978 and by June 30, 1978 in the case of the
road maintenance adviser (para 4.07);



- 35 -
(i) MOPT shall by September 30, 1978 create a Metropolitan
Area Road Maintenance Unit with a work program and staffing
plan satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.05);
(j) OFIPlan shall engage consultants to carry out the land use
and urban growth study on terms and conditions and under
Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank (para 4.10);
(k)  MOPT will undertake traffic planning studies, in accordance
with Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank, of methods
of extending further priority to buses and other high
occupancy vehicles and discouraging the inefficient use
of cars; and that the Government will review these studies
together with the Bank no later than June 30, 1979; based
on the studies and the review, prepare a new statement
of policy, to be submitted to the Bank for comment by
December 31, 1979, and before its promulgation and imple-
mentation (para 4.11);
(1) MOPT will complete the first series of studies on the ade-
quacy of bus services on major routes, current fare levels,
and the fare structure and that a joint Government/Bank
review of the study results will be held no later than
June 30, 1979 (para 4.12). The Governxment will submit
its proposed modifications to public transport policy and
a timetable for their implementation for Bank comment no
later than December 31, 1979;
(m) following the elimination of the bus subsidy, the Government
will undertake a study on the effect of this action on the
urban poor or, in the event that subsidies are not elimi-
nated by June 1978, initiate a study of the effectiveness,
incidence, and potential fiscal burden of the current
subsidy policy. Existing subsidies will be frozen and no
new ones introduced during the period of the study. The
study will be reviewed with the Bank by June 30, 1979,
and a timetable established by December 31, 1979 for imple-
menting policy changes (para 4.13) that may be proposed.
6.02      Subject to para 6.01 above, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$16.5 million to the Government of Costa Rica for a term of 17 years,
including a grace period of four years.






Annex 1
Table 1
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Background Information
Costa Rica
Total Population aiad Density by Regions
(1973)
Total            Land Aea       Dniyprc2
Region        _ouain                jtkea`    Density per km2
Region    Population           in~ kmu
Central            1,174,802           7,646              153.6
Pacifico Norte       178,691          10,651               16.8
Pacifico Centro      127,167           4,587               27.7
Pacifiico Sur        174,287           9,749               17.9
Norte                 94,454           9,000               10.5
Atlantica            122,379           9,726               12.6
-TOTAL              1,871,780         51,359               36.4
Source: Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos. Population Census
1973.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Urban and Rural Censal Population by Province
('000)
1963 Census                                   1973 Census
Province      Total      Urban    % UJrban    Rural        Total      lirban    %-U-rban    Rulral
TOTAL        1,336.3    460.6       34.5      875.7       1,871.8    760.1       40.6      1,111.7
San Jose         487.7    269.9       55.3      217.8         695.2    428.0       61.6        267.2
Alajuela         240.7      44.1      18.3      196.6         326.0      81.0       24.8       245.o
Cartago          155.4      39.4      25.4      116.0         204.7      72.9      35.6        131.8
Heredia           85.1      29.2      34.3       55.9         133.9      50.7      37.9         83.2
Guanacaste       142.5      21.4      15.0      121.1         178.7      42.7      23.9        136.0
Puntarenas       156.5      34.0      21.7      122.5         218.2      45.6       20.9       172.6
Limon             68.4      22.6      33.0       45.8         115.1      39.2      34.1         75.9
1/ Urban is defined as comprising administrative centers of cantons.
Source:  Population Census 1963 and 1973
naD



Annex 1
Table 3
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBANI TRANSPORT PROJECT
Family Income Distribution, 1961 and 1971
Percent of Families       Percent of Income      Percent of Income
(In neciles)                  1961                    1971
Bottom                       2.6                    2.1
Second                       3.1                    3.3
Third                        3.3                    4.2
Fourth                       4.0                    5.1
Fifth                        4.8                    6.2
Sixth                        5.9                    7.5
Seventh                      7.6                    9.3
Eighth                      10.1                   11.7
Nínth                       14.6                   16.2
Top                        44.0                    34.4
Source:  1961:  United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America,
hconomic Survey of Latin America, 1968, July 1969.
1971: Victor Hugo Cespedes S., Costa Rica: La Distribucion
del Ingreso y el Consumo de Algunos Alimentos
Universidad de Costa Rica, Serie Economaia y Estadistica,
No. 45, 1973.



ANNEX 1
Table 4
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Metropolitan Area Population Growth
(1950-1963-1973)
District                    1950           1963           1973
Central                   111,820        168,938        215,441
Escazu                      7,141         14,250         25,026
Desamparados                8,434         21,661         57,954
Goicoechea                 19,941         43,294         60,376
Alajuelita                   2,733          8,748         18,843
Coronado                    2,597          4,607           9,824
Tibas                      10,594          23,946         35,062
Moravia                     4,451           9,188        15,552
Montes de Oca                9,916         24,043         33,633
Curridabat                  4,497           9,491         15,591
Metropolitan Area         182,124        328,166        487,842
Source: Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos.
Population Census 1973



Annex 1
Table 5
COSTA RICA
JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Number of       Area Devoted              /2
Distriet           Inhabitants       to Housing        Density
Central                202,417          1,015.12          199.39
Escazu                  23,487            241.69           97.00
Desamparados            54,917            223.30          245.00
Goicoechea              56,708            288.14          196.80
Alajuelita              17,743             77.52          228.88
Coronado                 9,250             52.54          176.06
Tibas                   32,775            149.90          218.65
Moravia                 14,644            105.97          138.19
Montes de Oca           31,579            240.99          131.04
Curridabat              14,63>4            76.23          191.97
Metropolitan Area      458,154          2,471.40          185.38
/1  in hectares
7T- persona per hectare
Source: Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos.
Population Census 1973.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Actívity in the Metropolitan Area
Population Aged 12 Years or More                    344,279
Active                                              169,263
--working                         158,221
--not working                       6,287
--looking for work first time       4,755
Inactive                                            175,016
--Students                         69,645
--Domestic Activities              89,358
--Retired                           5,896
--Others                           10,117
Source: Population Census, 1973.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economically Active Population by Employment Sector
Sector                             1963 (%)         1973 (%)
Agriculture and Fishing              7.36             3.06
Mining and Quarrying                 0.12             0.09
Manufacturing Industry              21.80            20.76
Electricity, Gas, and Water          1.46             1.37
Construction                         9.80             7.98
Commerce, Restaurants, and Hotels 19.55              19.02
Transport and Warehousing            5.20             4.97
Financial Institutions            no data             5.08
Communal, Social and Personal
Services                          32.53            33.02
Other                                2.17             4.65
Source: Population Census, 1973.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Vehicles in Circulation, by type, 1965-1975
/1                                                 /3    Motorcycles
Auto-                           /2  Station      Special       and Simílar
Year        Total          mobiles   Trucks   Jeeps   Buses   Wagons         Equipment      Equipment
-365        45,354         14,004    10,195    5,829  1,952    2,900           2,491         7,983
1966        52,496         16,526    12,287    6,919  2,058    3,709           2,617         8,370
1967        55,904         17,850    13,263    7,468  2,126    3,788           2,776         8,633
1968        60,038         19,384    14,651    8,091  2,206    3,853           2,934         8,919
1969        65,564         21,019    16,730    8,916  2,296    4,158           3,151         9,294
1970        73,395         23,834    19,555   10,037  2,402    4,358           3,460         9,749
1971        81,715         25,969    22,373   11,179  2,529    4,985           3,968        10,712
1972        90,817         28,411    24,784   12,284  2,605    5,198           4,422        13,113
1973       103,296         31,286    29,695   13,500  2,675    5,396           5,127        15,617
1974       114,841         34,270    34,401   15,249  2,795    5,626           6,500        16,000
1975/      128,237         36,350    39,540   17,200  3,122    6,290           7,362        10,373
1976-      137,631         39,012    42,436   18,460  3,351    6,751           7,900        19,723
/1  Idcludes automobiles in public service, and private microbuses.
/2 Idcludes microbuses in public service.
/3 I,cludes agricultural and construction equipment.
/4  Pteliminary estimates.                                                                                   >
Sourcé:  Ministry of Public Works and Transportation.                                                        m
ho bI



ANNEX 1
Table 9
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Central Cordon Average Daily Traffic
(1967-1975)
Ratio
Quadrant            1967      1972       1975     %    1975:1967
North              26,280    37,093    46,546   24        1.77
East               18,510    34,281    41,875   21        2.26
South              18,270    31,924    40,052   20        2.19
West               22,725    45,887    68,092   35        3.00
TOTAL        85,785   149,185   196,565  100         2.29
Source: General Directorate of Planning, MOPT.



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Persons and Vehicles by Type of Service
Principal San Jose Gateways
Weekday--March 1977; Expanded to 24 Hours
Average
Percent    Percent                Percent   Percent      Persons
Number of    Passenger    aLl                 Passenger   of all         per
Vehicles                  Passengers   Vehicles   Vehicles   Number   Vehícles   Vehicles    Vehicle
Public Transport
Metropolitan Area Buses          514,306        54.3        51.6      11,367       7.2       6.2         45.2
Interurban Buses                 175,922        18.6        17.7       4,208      2,7        2.3         41.8
School Buses                      11,055         1.2         1.1         355        .2        .2         31,1
Charter and Tour Buses            10,858         1.1         1.1         407        .2        .2         26.7
Subtotal--Buses                712,141        75.2        71.5     16,337      10.3        8.9         43.6
Taxi cabs                         19361          2.0         1.9      12 817      8.1        7.0          1.5
Total Public Transport       731,502        77.2        73.4     29,151      18.4       15.9         25,1
Private Transport
Cars, Jeeps, Station Wagons,    200,469         21.1.       20,1    ¡15,640      72.9       62.9          1.7
Motorcycles                       15,738         1.7         1.6    1 3 90       87         7.6          1.1
Total Private Transport      216,207        22,8        21.7    129,530      81.6       70.5          1.7
Subtotal Passenger Transport    947,709        100.0        95.1    1.58,681    100.0       86.4          6.0
Goods Vehicles                    48,220                     4.9      25,144                13.6          1.9
Total All Vehicles           995,929                   100.0    183,825                100.0          5.4
Source:  March 1977 Vehicle and Passenger Survey, MOPT, Wilbur Smith and Associates.
>
CD 



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Peak Hour/  Bus Passengers
Expanded 24-Hour Count
March 1977
Total Passengers       A.M. Peak Hour         P.M. Peak Hour          Noon Peak Hcour
Gateway                (24 Hours          Number   % of Total   Number   % of Total   Number   % of Total
Paseo Colon              119,100          11,841       9.9       10,492       8.8          6,441      5.4
San Pedro                104,600           8,561       8.2        8,704       8.3          6,453      6.2
Desamparados              93,650           8,548       9.1        8,561       9.2          6,456      6.9
Guadalupe                 83,400           7,670       9.2        6,974       8.4          5,131      6.2
San Sebastian             68,500           6,048       8.8        6,250       9.1          3,871      5.7
Vrw-a                     67,300           6,449       9.6        8,102      12.0          4,497      6.7
Tibas                     66,100           5,978       9.0        5,958       9.0          4,096      6.2
Alajuelita-Hatillo        59,100           5,482       9.3        5,220       8.8          4,368      7.4
Paso Ancho                17,750           1,497       8.4        1,319       7.4          1,517      8.5
^renue 10-42 St.         10,600           1,057      10.0           960      9.1            626      5.9
TOTAL               690,100          63,131      9.4        62,540       9.1         43,456      6.3
/1 Highest hour ín A.M., P.M., and Midday.
72  Total of Gateways covered by 1977 Survey--excluding school and charter buses.



'.zTA Ri-CA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Average Bus Speeds and Travel Times on Selected Routes
March 1977
Alajuelita              San
average Time and Speed       Desamparados    Hatillo    Tíbas   Sebastian   Uruca    San Pedro   Guadalupe
A, Inner City
Distance (km)                1.98           2.04      1.07       2.19        .91       1.99         2.34
Average Time (minutes)        9            10         5          9.5        3.5       10            9.5
AX,^'rage Speed (km/hr)     13.2           12.2      12.8       13.8       15.6       11.9         14.8
B. Outer Radial
Distance                     3.3            2.61      1.68       1.98       2.9        2.20         2.16
Average Tíme                11              8.6       5          5.5       10         10            9.5
Average Speed                18.2          18.4      20.1       21.6       17.4       13.2         13.6
C. Total Route
Dístance 1                   5.31           4.65      2.75      4.17        3.81      4.19          4.50
Average Time                20             18.5      10         15.0       13.5      20            19.0
Average Speed               15.9           15.1      16.5       16.7       16.9      12.6          14.2
% of Dístance Outer Section    63              56        61         48          76       53            48
Source:  Bus Rnning Time Survey, March 1977; MOPT, Wilbur Smith and Associates.
H >



ANNEX 2
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Details of TOPICS Component
1.        The Traffic Operations Program to Increase Capacity and Safety
(TOPICS) basically involves reorganizing parts of the road network, parti-
cularly intersectíons, to improve their operating characteristics. The works
generally involve some of the following: widening the intersection, changing
the way in which traffic is channelled or guided through the intersection,
introducíng physical separation of traffíc lanes, paving the intersection,
providíng information to road users through pavement markíngs or sígns, in-
troducing or modifyíng traffíc signals, often to give bus priorities or
facilitíes for pedestrians. Each intersection ís unique and, thus, demands
a custom design.  The elements included in the desígns for the intersection
improvements and the sub-area improvements are shown below together wíth
their locations. Also detailed below are the sites for the pedestrian
crossing facilities, the elements of the dispersal schemes, and the extent
of the Central Area Circulation Plan.
2.        Intersection Improvements (see Map 12935.  Location desígnated
by reference number).



ANJNEX 2
Page 2
Type of Improvement
Channelization
Ref.                                       Pavement        Intersection
No.          Location                    Marking, Signs      Widening      Signals
1.  Betania, CR 202 Calle Negritos             X                X            X
2.  Sabana Norte-Calle 42                      X                X            X
3.  Avenida 11 - Calle 10                      X                             X
4.  Calle 23 - Avenida 1 y 3                   X                X            X
5.  Clinica Moreno Canas                       X                X            X
6.  Calle 8 - Avenida 9                        X                             X
7.  Calle 20 - Avenida 10 y 12                 X                             X
8.  Avenida 9 - Calle 14                       X                             X
9. Calle 16 - entrance to Coca
Cola Terminal                            X
10.  Calle 24 and Pacific RR crossing           X               X             X
11.  Calle 10-Av. 7 (Signals included
CBD plan)                                X               X
12.  Ruta 201 and Ruta 202                      X                             X
13.  Calle 14 - Av. 2 to Paseo Colon
(Signals included in CBD plan)           X
14.  Ruta 7 - Sabana Oeste                      X                             X
15.  Ruta 7 - Puente Los Anonos                                               X
16.  Ruta 1 - Rio Virilla                                                     X
3.        Sub-Area Improvements (see Map 12935 for location).
Location-Name                               Type of Improvement
East-West Connection                      Spot widening circulation and signals.
Parque llorazan Area                      Bus priority and bus only streets,
signals and revised circulation.
Calle 23 between RR and Ave. 9            Rehabilitation of existing road.
Avenida 14-Calle 16 to Calle 18           Rehabilitation to provide two lanes.
Route 214 over Maria Aguilar River        Bridge crossing to províde additional
lane.
Calle 5-Avenida 20 to Avenida 22          New street section to complete Calle 5.
Paseo Colon-Calle 14 to Calle 42          Raised island, turn storage lanes,
and signal improvement.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
4.        Pedestrian Crossings
Location                                Type of Improvement
1.  Ruta 104 (Pavas), Casa de San Pedro Claver          Pedestrian Signal
2.  Ruta 104-Avenida Rohrmoser and Calles 1 and 3       Pedestrian Signal
3.  Ruta 1 - Entrance to Urbanizacion Peregrina          Pedestrian Sígnal.
4.  Ruta 100 - Copey de Cinco Esquinas                   Pedestrian Signal
5.  Ruta 102 - Entrance to Urbanizacion La Florida    Pedestrian Signal
6.  Radial Zapote-Barrio Cordoba                         Pedestrian Signal
7.  Ruta 212-Colegio Las Gravilias                       Pedestrian Signal
8.  Avenida Central-Calles 0 and 1 (Desamparados)       Pedestrian Signal
9.  Ruta 212-Escuela Republica de Panama                 Pedestrian Signal
10.  Ruta 100-La Concretera                              Pedestrian Signal
11.  Ruta 5-Avenidas 8 and 10 (Tibas)                    Pedestrian Signal
12.  Ruta 5-Avenidas 2 and 4 (Tibas)                     Pedestrian Signal
13.  Ruta 5-Calles 4 and 6 (Tibas)                       Pedestrian Signal
14.  Ruta 5-Calles 12 and 14 (Tibas)                     Pedestrian Signal
15.  Ruta 102-Escuela San Blas de Moravia                Pedestrian Signal
16.  Radial Zapote-Clinica Dr. Carlos Duran              Pedestrian Signal
17.  Calle Central-Avenida 22                            Pedestrian Signal
18.  Avenida 3-Calle 17                                  Pedestrian Signal
19.  Calle 17-Clinica Seguro Social                      Pedestrian Signal
20.  Calle 19-Clinica Seguro Social                       Pedestrian Sígnal
21.  Paseo Colon-Calle 14-Avenida Central                 Pedestrian Subway
22.  Calle 23-Avenida 15                                 Pedestrian Bridge
5.        Traffic Dispersal Schemes (see Map 12935 for location)
1.  Plaza Gonzales Vicquez                Coordinated signals, intersection
widening, channelization,
pedestrian signals
2.  Calle 42 (Sabana Sur)                 Coordinated signals, channeliza-
tion, turn prohibitions
6.        Central Area Circulation Plan (see Map 12935 for location)
Bus Priority Lanes for East-West Flow
1. Paseo Colon from Calle 42 to Calle 14
2. Avenida 2 from Calle 14 to San Pedro Radial
3. Avenida Central from Calle 14 to Calle 6
4, Avenida 3 from Calle 6 to Calle 23
5. Calle 6 from Avenida Central to Avenida 3
6. Calle 23 from Avenida 3 to San Pedro Radial
7.  Calle 14 from Paseo Colon to Avenida 2



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Bus Priority Lanes for North-South Flow
1. Calle 2 from Avenida 20 to Avenida 9
2.  Calle Central from Avenida 26 to Avenida 9
3. Avenida 9 from Calle 2 to Calle Central
4. Calle 7 from Avenida 3 to Avenida 18
5. Calle 9 (and 9 bis) from Avenida 18 to Avenida 2
6. Avenida 18 from Calle 7 to Calle 9 bis
Bus Only (and Exempted Vehicles) Streets
1.  Avenida 3 from Calle 5 to Calle 15 (Parque Morazan)
2. Ltnk between Calle 14 and Avenida 7



ANNEX 3
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Equipment to be Provided Under the Project
CBD Traffic Signal System
1.        The scope of the proposed traffic signal system is described in
paras 3.21 to 3.24. The contract for the supply and installation of the
equipment would include all the necessary traffic signals, local and master
controllers, cabling, and other physical components required to provide a
fully functional system.
Equipment for DGTA
2.        The following equipment will be provided to DGTA for its road
marking and signing Program:
Traffic Signing Manufacturing Equipment              Estimated Cost
( '000)   US$ ('000)
Welding/Brazing Equipment                          25.4          2.95
Paint Sprayers and Accessories                     19.7          2.29
Reflective Sign Material Applicator               186.7         21.71
Guillotine for Sheet Metal                         26.8          3.12
Silk Screen Printing Equipment                     62.8          7.30
Subtotal                                    321.4         37.37
Road Pavement Marking Equipment
2 Motorized Sprayers at 100 gallons
capacity                                        311.1         36.17
2 Motorized Sprayers at 15 gallons
capacity                                         41.5          4.83
4 Utility Trucks                                  165.9         19.29
2 General Purpose Vehicles                         41.4          4.81
1 Machine for Marking Removal                      20.7         2.41
Subtotal                                    580.6         67.51



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Traffic Signal Maintenance                            Estimated Cost
¢ ('000)   US$ ('000)
2 Vehicles with telescopic hoists   Subtotal   331.8             38.58
Total (excluding price contingencies)           1,233.8         143.46
Equipment for DGT
3.        The following equipment will be funded under the project to increase
the productivity of DGT in enforcing traffic regulatíons:
Estimated Cost
¢ ('000)   US$ ('000)
Radio Communications Equipment                     1,574.7       183.1
15 Patrol Jeeps (including spare parts)             781.8        90.9
25 Patrol Motorcycles (including spare
parts)                                            855.3         99.4
5 Tow Trucks (including spare parts)                382.5        44.5
Total (excluding price contingencies)        3,594.3       417.9
Equipment for DGV
4.        The following equipment for the new DGV highway maintenance unit
will be funded under the project:
Estimated Cost
2 ('000)   US$ ('000)
1 8/10 Ton Roller                                   230.5        26.8
5 12 cu. yd. Dump Trucks                          2,364.5       274.9
1 Grader (with rip blade)                           709.3        82.5
1 Water Tanker (2,000 gals) & pump                  295.5        34.4
1 Asphalt Spreader                                  354.7        41.2
1 Asphalt Tanker                                    472.9        55.0
2 Jeeps                                              141.9       16.5
1 Pickup Truck                                       76.8         8.9
2 Heavy Trucks                                      295.5        34.4
1 Lowload Truck                                     118.2        13.7
1 Mechanical Sweeper                                 70.9         8.2
1 Finisher (smooth wheeled)                         218.7        25.4
1 5-8 Ton Smooth Wheel Roller                       177.3        20.6
1 Self-Propelled Edger                               47.3         5.5
Miscellaneous equipment (compressor &
road breakers, concrete mixer, vibrating
plates)                                             646.0        79.9
Total (excluding price contingencies)        6,260.0       727.9



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Equipment for Bus Inspection Faciity
5.        The following equipment for the proposed bus inspection facility
will be financed under the project:
Estimated Cost
¢ ('000)   US$ ('000)
2 Brake Pressure Dynamometers                      43.0         5.0
5 Headiíght Alignment Test Units                   21.5         2.5
10 Wheel Alignment Test Rigs                       60.2         7.0
Miscellaneous Tools                                 25.8        3.0
Total (excluding price contingencies)        150.5        17.5



ANNEX 4
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        Technical assistance under the project is intended to assist Govern-
ment with (a) the immediate tasks of coordinating and managing project imple-
mentation; (b) starting the process of traffic planning and public transport
promotion in the Directorate of Automotive Transport (DGTA); and (c) organizing
a metropolitan road maintenance Unit within the Directorate of Highways (DGV).
2.        The project will fund one adviser to the Project Steering Committee,
two advisers on traffic, two advisers on public trlnsport, one adviser on road
maintenance, 1/ and expert assistance for the land use and urban growth study.
The duration and man-month rates attaching to each specialist are shown in the
table below. Because consulting firms and/or individuals will be asked to
apply to fill the adviser positions, slightly higher man-month rates have been
assumed to allow for consulting firm overheads. Firms are being asked to
apply because good freelance experts are difficult to get.
3.        The estimated costs of the experts will be as follows:
Colones ('000)    US$ ('000)
Man-            Man-
Man-     Month            Month
Months   Rate    Total   Rate    Total
Adviser to Steering Committee            30      52.0    1,548    6.0    180.0
Senior Adviser--Public Transport         24      64.5    1,548    7.5    180.0
Adviser--Public Transport                12      52.0       619    6.0      72.0
Senior Adviser--Traffic                  24      64.5    1,548    7.5    180.0
Adviser--Traffic                         12      52.0       619    6.0      72.0
Advíser--Maintenance                     12      52.0       619    6.0      72.0
Land Use Study                           33      55.9    1,845    6.5    214.5
Total                             147               8,346            970.5
4.        It is likely that all the experts will be foreign.  The foreign
exchange content of the technical assistance has therefore been assumed to be
75%.
5.        The two Senior Advisers will be supported by an Urban Transport
Basic Policy Studies Unit to be created in DGTA. This group will have a
1/   It should be noted that the trainer/adviser (24 man-months) to be pro-
vided to DGT (see Annex 5) will spend approximately half his time
advising DGT on methods, procedures, and productivity.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
small professional staff including at least an engineer and an economist,
together with an adequate support staff. Under the direction of the advisers
the group will carry out studies of innovative and longer-run urban transport
policies such as road pricing techniques, with respect to their suitability
for future implementation in San Jose.
A. Job Descriptions of Advisers
Public Transport Senior Adviser
6.        Qualifications:  The Senior Adviser shall have had wide experience
in responsible executive and policy-making positions in the management, financ-
ing, and administration of public transport operations, preferably both in
the actual operation of public t-ransport undertakings and in the exercise of
governmental regulation and control. Experience in the means and standards
of meeting high public transport demands at minimum cost in developing coun-
tries with low private car ownership is desirable. Fluency in Spanish 1s
highly desirable.
7.        Duties:  The Senior Public Transport Adviser shall advise and assist
the Director General of DGTA in the development of public transport. He shall
help DGTA units to establish policies, procedures, organization service stand-
ards, administration and control of public passenger transport services withyn
the San Jose metropolitan area. Specifically, the adviser will help to:
-    prescribe and review content of all public transport courses;
-    conduct high-level seminars on public transport policy and
management for MOPT staff;
-    establish the scope of and conduct studies to determine the
required level of public transport service;
-    establish procedures, staffing requirements and budgets for
continuing surveillance and analysis to ensure that pres-
cribed service standards are consistently adhered to and
that service is increased or diminished as changes in the
volume of traffic require;
-    prescribe the form and content of, and assure the filing
and analysis of bus operators' financial and operating
reports;
-    estimate from time to time the probable costs of providing
bus service and the accompanying fares which would cover
such costs;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
make investigations and conduct studies on the granting,
amendment, or revocation of concessions and permits;
review and evaluate the functions, staffing and procedures
of the departments and divisions of DGTA concerned with
public transport operations; and
promote additional public transport riding through marketing
techniques and coordination of public transport information
services with traffic management schemes to restrain private
car use and traffic priority measures for public transport
vehicles.
Adviser on Public Transport Vehicle Service Standards
8.        Qualifications:  The Adviser on Vehicle Servíce Standards shall
have had extensive experience, at both management and funetional levels, in
the maintenance, repair and servicing of all types of buses and their related
facilities; in the administration of preventive maintenance and inspection
procedures; in the supervision and training of maintenance personnel; in
performance standards and specifications for new vehicles; and in the stocking
and acquisition of parts and supplies for the maintenance and repair of all
components of the transport system. Fluency in Spanish is highly desirable.
9.        Duties:  The Adviser on Vehicle Service Standards will work closely
with the Senior Adviser on Public Transport, and will be responsible for the
vehicle design and maintenance aspects of the public transport improvements
program for the Metropolitan Area of San Jose. His duties will relate pri-
marily to the functions and responsibilities of the General Director of
Automotive Transport in respect to vehícle service standards, but wíll be
coordinated with similar activities in other Government and quasi-governmental
agencies. Specifically he will help to:
-    establish standards and procedures for the maintenance,
repair and servicing of buses by the bus operators,
including a definitive preventive maintenance and
inspection program;
-    in coordination with TRANSMESA, develop design standards and
performance criteria for new buses seeking to standardíze
engine, chassis and body components, as far as possible,
and still retain incentives for competitive bidding;
-    in coordination with TRANSMESA and other organizations,
develop measures to encourage the manufacture and repair
of bus bodies in Costa Rica for installation on imported
chassis;
-    assist in the preparation of specifications and tender
documents for the purchase of new buses, íncluding con-
tractual assurances for future supplies of parts and
components.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
in coordination with TRANSMESA and other organizations,
develop procedures and financing measures to assure the
avaílability at reasonable cost of replacement parts and
components for buses over their useful lífe, including
as appropriate, facilities for local rebuilding of certain
parts and components;
be responsible for the design of the bus inspection facility,
for the procedures to be used therein, for equipment speci-
fication, and for training of staff;
define duties and determine the qualifications and numbers
of Government Public Transport Maintenance Inspectors;
implement and test training and retraining programs for such
inspectors; and
assist and work with other agencies, such as TRANSMESA and
INA, in the establishment of training courses for bus main-
tenance personnel of both bus undertakings and of privately-
owned contract bus repair facilities.
10.       Duration:  One year.
Senior Adviser on Traffic Management and Engineering
11.       Qualifications:  The Senior Adviser shall have an engineering degree
with additional qualifications in traffic/transportation engineering and plan-
ning. He shall have a minimum of eight years experience in traffic management
studies and analysis, including experience on organizational aspects of a
traffic engineering department.  Fluency in Spanish is highly desirable.
12.       Duties:  The Senior Adviser shall advise and assist DGTA in the
establishment of improved traffic management strategies and measures for the
metropolitan area, including:
-    traffic measures to improve the flow of people and goods;
-    improved programs of pavement marking and traffic signing;
-    organization and strengthening of the traffic engineering
functions of MOPT;
-    policies and control measures related to on-street and off-
street car parking, including evaluation of Central Business
District parking study to be conducted by MOPT;
-    establishment of surveys and survey procedures as needed, for
traffic count, speed delay, vehicle occupancy and other key
indicators of effective traffic management;



ANNEX 4
Page 5
surveillance in the training of traffíc engineering technicians;
analysis and evaluation of urban transport studies, including
those of goods movements and traffic accidents to be done by
MOPT;
prescribe and review content of all traffic engineering train-
ing courses; and
give high-level semínars on traffic engineering training
courses to MOPT staff.
13.       Duration:  Two years.
Adviser on Traffic Control Systems to the General Directorate of Automotive
Transport
14.       Qualifications:  The Adviser shall be professionally qualified as
a traffic and/or electrical engineer with experience in the design, instal-
lation, and operation of urban traffic signal systems, and other traffic
control systems. Fluency in Spanish is highly desirable.
15.       Duties:  The Adviser shall advise and assist DGTA on:
-    the installation of the new traffic signal system for the
central area of San Jose;
-    the specifícations and installation of non-Central Business
Dístrict traffic sígnals (for example, at isolated inter-
sections or at the dispersal systems);
-    the counting program to be done by DGTA to develop the
timing plans in the new CBD signal system;
-    the need for special pre-emption devices for public trans-
port vehicles and/or emergency vehicles; and
-    assist the Senior Adviser on Traffic Management on the
implementation of other approved traffic control systems
(for example, through signs and markings).
16.       Duration:  One year.
Senior Adviser on Road Maintenance to General Directorate of Operations, MOPT
17.       Qualifications:  The Adviser shall be a graduate engineer, with
a minimum of ten years experience in road maintenance activities--including
specific experience in performance scheduling and budgeting procedures for



ANNEX 4
Page 6
highway maintenance and in general maintenance administration. Fluency in
Spanish would be highly desirable.
18.       Duties:  The Adviser shall advise and assist the new Maintenance
Unit to be established in DGV in carrying out the functions itemized below:
-    set up administrative and operational procedures for the
Unit;
-    establish a three year work program for the Unit following
consultations with the respective municipalities in the
metropolitan area;
establish initial manpower and budget requirements;
-    set up performance standards including manpower and equip-
ment utilization procedures; and
-    establish effective mechanism for coordinating the work
of the Unit with that of other departments which operate
maintenance programs.
19.       Duration:  One year.



ANNEX 5
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Training Component
Introduction
1.        The economic and social growth of the metropolitan area of San Jose
requires the development and maintenance of efficient urban transport ser-
vices for which the Government foresees an investment of over 250 million
colones ín the proposed project.  This large investment must be accompanied
by efficient human resources adequately trained to develop, administer, and
maintain both the present and future urban transport systems. Of the pre-
sent work force involved in urban transport activities, a majority lack the
necessary qualifications or skills to enable them to carry out their assign-
ments satisfactorily. Moreover, each of the MOPT Directorates General con-
nected with urban transport activities, as well as TRANSMESA, ls under-staffed.
This applies particularly to the MOPT Training Section, which, as presently
organized, lacks the capability to either identify or implement needed train-
ing programs. Moreover, although MOPT has in the past arranged for the train-
íng of some of its staff engaged in urban transport operationa, they have
since been assigned elsewhere, resulting in the Ministry's loss of several
qualified staff in this area.
2.        The objectives of the proposed training component are to (i) improve
staff productivity, operational efficiency, and the quality of service by
training and upgrading some of the existing and future MOPT skílled workmen,
low level supervisors, and managerial staff involved in urban transport ser-
vices, and (ii) identify, train, and incorporate into the system sufficient
Costa Rican personnel to continue and expand the training activities ini-
tiated as part of the project.
3.        The Bank will concentrate on the training of MOPT personnel con-
nected with urban transport services. It ls understood that the Government
will complement this effort by providing appropriate resources for the train-
ing of TRANSMESA personnel and bus drivers.
Scope of Training Component
4.        The component includes training of three main categories of personnel:
(a) DGTA, operational staff from the Public Transport Depart-
ment and traffic engineering technicians from the Traffic
Engineering Department in the fíeld of public transport
services and applied traffíc engineering methods, respec-
tively;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b) DGT, police inspectors in the fields of traffic surveil-
lance and regulation enforcement; and
(c)  bus-owners/managers in the field of bus operation manage-
ment, including accounting, financial analysis, parts
inventory and maintenance.
Although most of the training will be carried out in Costa Rica, a few selec-
ted staff will receive training abroad in disciplines for which training
cannot be provided in the country or in cases where it ís more cost-effective.
5.        The training component is based on the recommendations of a 1977
study made by Wilbur Smith Associates (Consultant-US). The MOPT and the Bank
reviewed these recommendations and agreed on an initial training program.
Expatriate instructors would be recruited and will initially make detailed
recommendations on training programs to be reviewed by both the MOPT and the
Bank.
6.        Once this task has been completed, the proposed expatriate instruc-
tors, in collaboration with the technical assistance advisers and all Depart-
ment Heads concerned, would prepare and implement training programs, including:
(a) In-country training (in order of priorities) for:
Personnel to be
Trained
(i) DGTA: Public Transport Department
Executive and Technical Staff          33
Traffic Engineering Department
Technical Staff                        22
(ii)  DGT:  Traffic Inspectors                      154
(iii)  Bus-Owners                                    225
434
(b) Training Abroad
(i) Puerto Rico
Six senior urban transport staff from DGTA, DGV
and DGT comprising two traffic operation planners,
two traffic management assistants, one maintenance
engineer, and one traffic inspector would visit the



ANNEX 5
Page 3
TOPICS Office of the Puerto Rican Highway Authority,
the Traffic Engineering Division of the Municipality
of San Juan, and the Department of Transportation and
Public Works. Since a TOPICS program, similar to the
one proposed for San Jose, has recently been success-
fully completed in San Juan, it is felt that this
experience could be transferred to MOPT staff at
relatively low cost during about two to three months
practical attachment. Puerto Rican authorities have
been contacted and have indicated an agreement in
principle. Furthermore, to ensure maximum benefits
from this visit, detailed programs will be sought
from the Puerto Rican authorities clearly indicating
the kind of experience and work expected to be pro-
vided. These programs would be reviewed and approved
by both the MOPT and the Bank prior to the trainee-
participants' departure.
(íi) United States or other suitable country
Three scholarships will be granted for graduate study
of nine months each in urban transport engineering,
planning, or economics to established MOPT staff.
The scholarships are expected to be assigned to two
engineers for courses in urban traffic operations and
to one economist for a course in public transport
regulatory operations. As in the case of (b) (i)
above, the academic programs would be reviewed and
approved by the MOPT and the Bank before the partíci-
pants' departure from Costa Rica. In addition, one or
two professors from selected uníversities abroad, with
considerable experience ín urban transport disciplines,
would be commissioned to assist Costa Rican universí-
ties in establishing relevant courses in urban trans-
port within existing civil engineering faculties.
Training Courses
7.        For each of the three main categories of personnel to be trained,
appropriate courses will be prepared and supervised by an expatriate instruc-
tor, assisted by one or more of the technical assistance advisers. Most of
the courses would be based on the curricula prepared by the consultant as
follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
8.        DGTA - Public Transport Department.  Management and technician
courses are expected to be conducted for personnel of this department includ-
ing the following: (a) Policy Overview; (b) Concessions and Permits; (c)
Fares; (d) Financial Forms; (e) Financial Analysis; (f) Routes and Coverage;
(g) Headway Requirements; (h) Monitoring Schedules and Data; (i) Passengers
Amenities; and (j) Maintenance Inspection.  The proposed courses will encom-
pass from one to six months of instruction (not necessarily consecutive) for
executive staff and approximately one year for technicians depending on the
qualifications and experience of participants.
9.        DGTA - Traffic Engineering Department.  Curricula 1/ for a series of
seven training courses have been developed for traffíc technicians by the
consultant. These curricula include:
Course 1  -    Policy and Objectives Overview.  General concepts and
principles of traffic engineering. This course would
be of interest to senior offícials and department heads,
and traffic inspectors as an introduction to their own
programs.
Course 2  -    Expanded Overview.  A course for (a) professional and
supervisory staff and (b) both present and newly-
employed traffic technicians of all classifications.
Course 3  -    Survey Analysis and Report Writing.  A course coveríng
the collection, analysis, presentation, and use of
survey data necessary for traffic engineering projects.
Course 4  -    Traffic Signals.  A course on traffic signal systems.
Course 5  -    Signs, Striping, Pavement Markings and Safety Lighting.
A course on all traffic control devices (except signals)
including standardizations of signs, striping, and pave-
ment markings.
Course 6  -    Vehicle Parkin&.  A course covering on and off-street
parking for all types of vehicles, including the
special problems of bus stops and truck loading needs.
Course 7  -    Traffic Accident Analysis.  A course on methods of col-
lecting and analysis of accident data in the development
of programs to improve safety and operation.
1/ The details of these curricula and related reference materials are
available in the Bank.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
The traffic engineering training program requires that one or more profes-
sionally qualifíed traffic engineers shall be recruited as the present number
is insufficient to meet normal operational requirements. The above courses
are primarily directed at traffic engineers' support staff or "technicians,"
and are expected to require approximately twelve months of instruction (not
necessarily consecutive) depending on the qualifícations and experience of
personnel.
10.       DGT.  Curricula 1/ for a series of four training courses have been
developed by the consultant for police traffic inspectors. These include:
Course 1  -    Overview.  A course covering the basic concepts of the
need for traffic regulation, the function of the traffic
police, and office-citízen relationshíp.
Course 2  -    Traffic Laws and Enforeement.  A course covering the
traffic laws of Costa Rica, public transport, and truck
regulations, etc.
Course 3  -    Traffic Control Problems and Techniques.  A course
eovering driver and pedestrian characteristícs, vehicle
characteristics, etc.
Course 4  -    Traffic Accdent Investigations.  A course covering
accident investigation teehniques, reporting, and
analysis.
ll.       Bus-Owners.  It is intended that an informational and technical
assistance program be carried out for bus company management staff. This is
expected to cover, inter alia, the following subjects:
(a) management and overall administration;
(b)  policy and management standards;
(c) scheduling of services and preparation of timetables;
(d) accounting procedures and uniform systems of accounting
for bus operations;
(e) laws and regulations;
1/   The details of these curricula are available in the Bank.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(f) traffic control devices;
(g) methods of audit control;
(h) vehicle maintenance practices; and
(i)  procurement of spare parts, etc.
The program would be carried out partly by a series of conferences or seminars
for small groups of bus undertakings and partly by visits to individual com-
panies. It ís hoped that by providing a flexible schedule of half day classes,
most of the 225 bus-owners would be willing to participate. Follow-up contacts
would also be carried out.
Implementation of Training Component
12.       The training program can be initiated in 1978.  The following pre-
liminary steps leading to the preparation and implementation of thís program
should be taken by the Government:
(a)  the promulgation of a statement by the Minister of the MOPT
outlining a training policy within the MOPT, with specific
instructions on training to Directors General and senior
staff of related agencies (Attachment 1);
(b) the expansion and strengthening of the existing MOPT Training
Section by one Costa Rican training officer able to provide
the necessary logistic and administrative support to the
expatriate instructors;
(c) the inclusion of training in the services to be performed
by some of the technical assistance advisers; and
(d)  the early assignment of Costa Rican counterparta to the
expatriate instructors. They would initially carry out
a number of tasks with increasing responsibility leading
to the position of technician-instructors.
13.       The full responsibility for the implementation of training will rest
with the Project Manager who in turn will be asaisted by the Senior Adviser
on Public Transport, and the Senior Adviser on Traffic Management and En-
gineering. The training programa for DGTA and DGT personnel will be carried
out by three full-time expatriate instructors. Details are as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Expatriate Instructors (Full-Time)
(1)  Traffic Engineer-Instructor           DGTA - Teach courses on system
(Planning)          16 months                 planning, routes, control
devices, surveys, etc.
- Conduct 5-6 classes on
(i) accident reporting and
(ií) weigh scales operatíons.
(2)  Traffic Engineer-Instructor           DGTA - Teach courses on traffic
(Operations)        16 months                 investigations, signing and
striping, pavement markings,
signalízation, safety light-
ing, channelization, etc.
DGT - Conduct 4-5 classes on
(i) traffic control devices,
(ii) parking.
Bus-Owners  - Lecture on "service standards."
(3) Traffic Police-Instructor
and Adviser                     DGT  - Develop a traffic regulation
24 months               enforcement program.  Prepare,
implement, and supervise
training of traffic inspectors,
including local inspectors-
instructors.
Total 4 man-years
In addítion, three technical assistance advisers will conduct traíning as
follows:
(1)  Public Transport Senior Adviser       DGTA - Assume responsibility for
4 months               the content of training
courses for public trans-
port personnel and bus-
owners.
- Develop and conduct, wíth
the assistance of the
traffic engineers-
instructors, high-level
policy and management
seminars or courses re-
quíring special expertise
such as fares, regulatory
processes and procedures,



ANNEX 5
Page 8
the use of financial and
statistical data for re-
gulatory and managerial
purposes, etc.
Bus-Owners  - Conduct short seminars-
sessions on Government
policy and regulations;
financial and operating
statistics (cost control),
etc.
(2) Adviser on Public Tranport
Vehicle Service Standards            DGTA - Prepare and carry out train-
3 months              ing programs for maintenance
inspectors.
TRANSMESA-INA - Assist in preparing courses
for bus maintenance person-
nel of both bus undertakings
and of privately-owned con-
tract bus repair facilities.
(3) Senior Adviser on Traffic
Management and Engineering           DGTA - Assume responsibility for
2 months              the content of courses for
traffic engineering techni-
cians.
- Assist in improving pro-
fessional traffic engineers
and planning staff in order
to upgrade them to super-
visory positions.
Total 9 man-months
The Government will be required to provide the following local staff either
from existing manpower or by recruitment.
Costa Rican Technician/Instructors (part-time)
DGTA       -    3 Technician-Instructors
DGT        -    4 Inspectors-Instructors
7
14.       The implementation of the proposed training program will require
limited physical training facilities, some training equipment and didactic
materials, and audio visual training aids. Although the Bank has arrived



ANNEX 5
Page 9
at an estimate of the physical resources required, it will be the responsibil-
ity of the expatriate instructors and their Costa Rican counterparts to final-
ize these items once the programs have been prepared and agreed.
15.       The National Instítute for Apprentices (INA), established in 1965
by presidential decree, has made a significant contribution to the country's
industrial growth by providing a variety of courses in basic skills. In
addition, INA recruits specialists to teach any specific skills it is not
equipped to handle with its permanent staff. It works closely with most
Minístries and has ample physical traíning facilities. Because of its offí-
c.ial relationship with the MOPT, INA could be utilized to (a) set up appro-
priate courses to meet some of the MOPT, as well as other agencies' needs,
such as those of TRANSMESA and the bus-owners, provided that specífic objec-
tives, curricula, and other basic data were made available to them; and (b)
make available classrooms and other facilíties. The proposed training officer
will determine at an early stage the extent to which INA can be of assistance
to this training effort.
16.       It should be emphasized that the success of the training program
wíll depend largely on the commitment of the Government to implement critic-
ally required policy changes in both pubiic and private agencies connected
wíth urban transport services. It will also depend on how committed the
Directors General are to making the necessary personnel available for train-
ing. A monitoring and evaluation system will be established within the train-
ing program to both monitor the results of training while it is being carried
out and, later, to evaluate the effectiveness of programs when completed.
Cost
17.       The total cost of expandíng and strengthening the capability of
MOPT's existing training organization and implementing a comprehensive traín-
ing program to meet the needs of urban transport personnel is estimated at
US$781,000 excluding contingencies. Details are as follows:
Training Equípment, Materials and Facilities            $130,000
Instructors                                             $406,000
University Course Development                           $105,000
Training Abroad                                         $140,000
$781,000
Approximately US$551,000 represents the foreign exchange component.



ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
COSTA RICA
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT (MOPT)
Policy Statement on Training
1.        The economic and social growth of the Metropolitan Area of San
Jose requires the development and maintenance of efficient urban transport
facilities. The Government foresees an investment of over Colones 250 million
for the period 1978-1980, and such a large investment must be backed up
by the recruitment and training of staff necessary to develop, administer,
and maintain the present and future urban transport system.
2.        This Ministry intends to strengthen its permanent training structure
and, with the assistance of existing national training institutions, plans
to meet the training needs of the MOPT personnel responsible for urban tran-
sport development as quickly as possible.
3.        The Ministry will enter into contracts with expatriate instructors
who, in collaboration with technical assistance experts, will review the
existing training program and related recommendations so as to determine the
appropriate action to be taken. In addition, they will be responsible for the
preparation, implementation, coordination and supervision of their respective
portions of the training activities required under the urban transport project.
In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the instructors will
collaborate closely with the MOPT Training Officer as well as the appro-
priate officials of INA and will report directly to the Project Manager. -
4.        While, for the first two years, training activities will involve
primarily low- and middle-level supervisors, it is envisaged that in the
future, seminars will also be carried out for high-level management staff.
5.        This Ministry will ensure, starting in 1978, that financial and
physical resources will be made available to carry out these activities.
In addition, to ensure the efficient implementation of the training effort,
all senior staff and department heads connected with the urban transport
project will be required to collaborate closely with the expatriate in-
structors by making available adequate numbers of personnel to be trained as
instructors, and by releasing existing and future staff, in a timely fashion,
to undertake agreed training courses.



ANNEX 5
Attachment 2
COSTA RICA
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT (MOPT)
Services of Expatriate Instructors
Job Description
1.        Each expatriate instructor should be an urban transport specialist
with, in addition, three to five years of pedagogical experience in this
field. Moreover, he should be capable of designing and implementing training
courses and staff development through on-the-job training.
2.        His main dutíes and responsibilities shall include:
(a) the establishment of training objectives and the planning
of courses to meet these objectives;
(b) the preparation of training courses and materials and the
day-to-day supervision of training programs. He will, ín
particular, introduce a system to enable the supervisors
in charge of each department to assess the training needs
of his staff;
(c) working closely with all MOPT Department Heads and other
senior officers, especially DGTA and DGT, but also TRANSMESA,
and Bus-Owners, so as to obtain their cooperation in staff
development programs;
(d) the design of an evaluation system within the training programs
to both monitor the results of training while it is being
carried out and, later, to evaluate the effectíveness of
completed programs;
(e) the training of Costa Rican Counterparts to take over their
responsibilities; and
3.        Fluency in Spanish is highly desirable.



ANNEX 6
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN PROJECT
The Value of Land 1/
Land Prices
1.        The value of the land acquired for the project constitutes nearly
30% of the costs of the radials. Without allowance for contingencies, the
right-of-way costs comprise two-thirds of the total local costs. And in
the case of the new Tibas Radial, the expense of land acquisition far exceeds
the cost of the works. The expenditure on land is so significant that, even
though no land acquisition is being financed by the Bank,it is important to
be sure that the cost is reasonable. In particular, there is need to ensure
that the project is not the pretext for the over-rapid escalation of land
values and the appropriation by landowners of windfall profit. This requires
as a preliminary some analysis of the land market and the determinants of the
price of land. Such is the main purpose of this annex. The annex also des-
cribes the current practice with respect to land acquisition and taxes.
2.        The price of land in San Jose is widely thought to be "high".
This can be interpreted in a number of ways. First the price of land may
be thought to be high compared with the price of land in other comparable
Central American (capital) cities. Although exact comparisons are hard to
make, the evidence from discussions with three realtors suggested that the
price of similar urban land in Guatemala City was only about 60% of the
San Jose price; in Tegucigalpa, the percentage was probably 35%; in San
Salvador about 60-70%. (No comparisons were available for Panama and
Managua.) Second, the price of land can be said to be high relative
to the annual return. The evidence for this can be found in the very
low rates of nominal return on residences rented in the private housing
sector. From a sample of 23 such rented residences (which may be called
higher middle class dwellings), the rate of return, net of tax and expen-
ses, was 3.4%. This is comparable to the rate of return on prime property
in the United States.
3.        To give some idea of the price of serviced land in San Jose, one
may review recent acquisitions by government. In principle, these were
contracted at the market price. Values range from 9 6,000 a square meter
(almost US$3 million an acre) for land acquired near the city center to
about 9 1,500 a square meter (US$0.7 million an acre) at a distance of one
kílometer from the city center (the intersection of Avenida Central and
1/   See Urban Land:  Issues and Opportunities, Issues Paper, April 1977.
Much of the detailed discussion is contained in that Issues Paper
and the Annex does not reiterate the exposition in that paper.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Calle Central). Thereafter, land falls rapidly in value on the Southern
radials (Alajuelita (Hatillo) and Desamparados), but on the Easterly,
Westerly, and Northern radials, the decline is much slower. Thus at
four kilometers from the center, values for serviced land range from
600 to 700 colones a square meter (US$0.3 to 0.35 million an acre) in
the East and West to 200 to 500 colones a square meter (US$0.1 to 0.25
million) in the south.
4.        The market for real property and land is virtually completely free.
Transaction costs are few and property is easily subdivided and assigned.
No restrictions are imposed on ownership--foreign nationals may own property
in Costa Rica and have exactly the same rights as nationals and resident
aliens. There are, however, some controls on rents but the evidence suggest
that they have little "bite" since an owner may change the tenancy and
renegotiate the rent by suitable "improvements". (It is also said to be
common practice to require "key money".) Realtors were of the opinion
that rent control exerted a nuisance effect but did not much affect the
disposition of property or its price.
5.        The demand for land is primarily determined by the expected real
economic return that can be exacted from the plot, the extent to which the
landholder will be able to appropriate the real economic return, and the
general expectations that landowners will preserve their savings which have
been invested in land. In allocating part of his portfolio to land, the
investor will take into account the rate of return, net of any taxes, that he
expects to accrue, and the risk of capital loss; and he will compare these
returns and risks on land with similar expectations on other alternative
assets.
6.        One of the noteworthy features of the Costa Rican society is their
abíding respect for the rights of private property.  There is very lttle
chance of any expropriation of property owners either through state take-
over or by penal taxation, comparable to that which has occurred in many
other countries. Consequently, real property is much in demand. According
to realtors, a large percentage of sales involve foreigners--many from
Central American Common Market countries, the United States, and certain
European countries. The extraordinary stability of Costa Rica and the respect
accorded to property rights and savings invested in property have a consider-
able scarcity value. It is not surprising that the demand is so large or that
the rate of return is dríven down to values similar to or even lower than
those in the United States. 1/
7.        The nominal rate of return on land--the present income from land
divided by the price of land--is much influenced by the expected rate of
inflation as well as the availability of funds. Some data on land values
1/   This respect for property rights ensures that Costa Rica can
import capital at a low cost.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
are available for certain years namely 1961, 1968 and 1974. Since the
status of the land, whether it has services or not, was unknown, no very
firm conclusions can be drawn from the data. 1/ The likelihood of raw
land being serviced undoubtedly raised the price of raw land through
this period. Concentrating on the Guadalupe corridor (East by Northeast)
where there is least likely to be any large effects from servicíng, one
finds that the average increase in price from 1961 to 1968 was quite small--
about 3% per annum. Some plots near the center actually fell in price
over this period, but generally the progression was consistent for most
distances from the city center. In the second period (1968 to 1974)
the rate of increase of land values was about 7% per annum, and again there
was no marked dispersion in the rates of growth according to the distance.
8.        Tentatively, one may conclude that the price of serviced urban
land in San Jose has reflected the change in the general price level over
the years 1961-74. Thus, the real price of serviced urban land has remained
more or less constant over these fourteen years. In particular, there is
no evidence of the very large increases in average price that are alleged
to have occurred in similarly rapidly growing cities in LDCs. (Of course
some plots of land have appreciated considerably more than the 7% rate
during the period 1968-71 and have attracted considerable attention from
the media. Some plots, approximately 0.5 km from the city center in the
Easterly (San Pedro) direction have increased by about 16-17% per annum--
but these are counterbalanced by plots in the Northern areas which have
increased by only 4% per annum).
9.        These data tend to be consistent with the principles outlined in
the Urban Land:  Opportunities and Issues paper.  Since land is a secure
asset one would anticipate that the real rate of return would be low. It
was shown above that the nominal rate of return was around 3-4%; and now,
the evidence from the time series suggests that 3-4% is also an appropriate
value for the real rate of return. Thus, it is likely that the present
value of land reflects the current rate of inflatíon which is widely
thought to be 6-7%.
Land for the Project
10.       As far as the land to be acquired for the project is concerned,
the first question that arises is the expectation of the market regarding
the improvement. For economic analysis, one needs to know the opportunity
cost of the land without the facilities proposed in the project. Taking
Tibas as the most important element involving land acquisition (see Table 1)
1/   Politicas de Crecimiento Urbano, La Experiencia de Costa Rica, edited by
Manual J. Carvajal, Centro de Estudios Latinoamericanos, Universidad de
Florida, Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos, 1977, pp. 297 et seq.
It is also impossible to derive an appropriate average for the urban
area since the weights are not known.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
it will be noted that plans for the Tibas Radial have been known for some
years. The only issue has been the timing. Consequently, market values for
land have long adjusted to the fact that a new highway will parallel the
existing Route 5. 1/ Equally, however, prices in other areas of the city
and its environs have long reflected the anticipated improvements of the
other radials. Thus it is difficult to separate out this expectational
element from the without-the-project value of land.  However, there are
one or two straws of evidence. The MOPT acquired 2.4 hectares in Tibas in
1974--the price was agreed before the great inflation in 1972-73. The average
price then was e 125 per square meter, whereas in 1977 the estimated cost
was e 300 per square meter. Allowing for the normal overall inflation of land
values over this period, the ¢ 125 per square meter would not quite have
doubled in price; but assuming that it did, one has still ¢ 50 per square meter
to account for the expectational effect of the highway. Thus it seems
as though at least 20% of the value can be thought of as the "expected-highway"
effect. It so happens that the land that has already been acquired by the
government approximates to 20% of the total currently assessed (1977) value,
so that it may be assumed that the value of the land still to be acquired
represents approximately not merely the financial costs but also the economic
cost. 2/
11.       The data for Tibas enable one to give some sort of quantitative
answer to another question frequently raised in discussions on the value of
land. 3/  What is the value of developed (and in this context this means
serviced) plots relative to the value of similarly located but unserviced
plots? The differential will then give a value, and not necessarily the
cost, of the services.
1/   One minor change has taken place.  Until some two or three years ago
(i.e., 1974-75) it was supposed that the new highway would merely
connect into the proposed Ringway. The Southerly projection beyond
the route of the proposed Ringway is new--but it ís snort and cannot
have any substantial effect.
2/   ¢ 2.998 million was already paid for 2.391 hectares for an average
price of e 125 per square meter, now valued at ¢ 300. The total cost
of land and buildings for the radial is ¢ 31.4 million.
3/   See for example Urban Land:  Opportunities and Issues, 1977.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
12.       Fortunately, the land required for the new Tibas Radial lay in
an unserviced segment of San Jose. And although the owners clearly expect
that servicing of land will ultimately be introduced by the local authorities
and the public corporation which distributes electricity, realtors suggest that
it will be in the late 1980s when the corridor is provided with services.
Consequently, the present land prices must reflect only a small fraction of
the serviced value.
13.       A regression of observations on 23 parcels of land, not included
in the Tibas Radial, gives an equation as follows:
P - 2250 exp(-0.949d)
where P is the price in colones per square meter of serviced land, d is the
distance from the city center (Ávenida Central and Calle Central). The
correlation coefficient is -0.830. It will be noted that this equation is
unsuitable for predicting values for serviced land at very short distances
and can be used with confidence only for the range over 0.15 kilometers.
Comparing the land values along the undeveloped Tibas Radial, one fínds
that the figures are about 50% lower than predicted by this equation.
Allowing for the fact that some anticipatory effect is in the Tibas values,
one may conclude that the value of serviced land is rather more than twice
the value of raw unserviced land. 1/
14.       A final issue with respect to the Tibas Radial is whether there
has been a substantial windfall profit and whether the money has accrued
to a small number of monopoly landowners. The location of the Tibas Radial
was decided by two considerations--the position of the very expensive
crossing of the Virilla river in the North and the undeveloped corridor
of Tournon in the South. The choice of the Virilla river crossing is
explained in the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1187 CR) and will not be
recounted here. The Southern part of the radial and the Tournon dispersal
occupy the most expensive but still undeveloped land. This arose because
of a law suit concerning the ownership of the estate; disputes over
ownership were so protracted that building was inhibited. The records show,
1/   Again, it must be emphasized that this result can be applied only over
the range of observations and cannot be extrapolated. If one knew the
cost of servicing land and if one knew the price which the authorities
exacted for servicing, one could calculate the appropriate servicing
thresholds. But these speculations are beyond the scope of this annex
and project.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
however, that even in the Tournon area, ownership, which was once concentrated
ín the Tournon family, is now quite widely dispersed. Furthermore, at about
0300 per square meter, the price is considerably below the price at similar
distances from the center of San Jose. It can be concluded, therefore, that
the Tournon acquisitions will not result in large gains from land speculation.
Similarly for the coffee lands, which comprise much of the land from the
railroad (about 2.3 km from the center) to the Tibas junction (about 4 mm
from center) is to be acquired at an average price of 88 colones a square
meter. Again, this will bring no windfall profits since it is the sort of
price that has persisted for a considerable time for unserviced land in such
close proximity to the center of San Jose. One may conclude, therefore, that
the prices proposed for land for the Tibas Radial are reasonable and that
there is little or no evidence of large speculative gains.
Land Value and Economic Analysis
15.       For the rest of the civil works in the project, the land aspects
are restricted to small acquisitions for widening existing highways. The
government already owns the right of way for most of the widening and so
acquisitions are small. Where the existing right-of-way is suitable for
at least four lanes but where there is only a two lane highway, the rest of
the right-of-way is usually employed, and much underutilized over most of
the length for parking vehicles. The obvious question arises, however,
whether one should not take into account the value of this parking which will
be forgone (during the peak hour only) when the road is widened. Clearly the
existing use is inefficient and the value of the parking forgone, with the
exception of a few businesses, is trivial since there is ample space available
on the side streets and feeder roads. There is, of course, an opposing view;
it may be argued that, if the authorities were convinced that only a two lane
road were to be provided in perpetuity, the additional land would be sold
at prices appropriate for valuable frontage. Thus, the economic value of
land used in the widening should reflect these prices for the total spare
land.
16.       In the economic evaluation, this opposing view has been rejected
largely because it does not reflect the reality of the existing conditions.
Widening these highways has been an imminent possibility for many years
and, in the absence of the project, it would continue to be the most likely
event at some time in the future--say perhaps in 1990. Consequently, the
alternative forgone is the present inefficient use as an underutilized park-
ing lot for the intervening years. Thus in the economic evaluation, as in the
financial analysis, the consequential restriction of parking on the radials at
peak hours has not been calculated as a cost of the project. Only new land
and property to be acquired have been counted as part of the cost.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
Acquisition
17.       The acquisition of land by the authorities is covered by the Ley
General de Caminos Publicos No. 5060 of August 22, 1972, Article 23,
pp. 10-12, which was revised slightly in August 1976. The authorities have
the power to acquire property which they decide is required for a right-
of-way and, after suitable notice, the owner must surrender the property.
He cannot refuse to sell to the authorities.  His only recourse is to refuse
the offer of compensation made by the authorities. The money so offered is
deposited in an escrow account, which does not earn interest. The offer
can be accepted by the expropriated owner by drawing an amount out of the
account. Many owners, however, decide to appeal the offered compensation
and such disputes are settled by an administrative tribunal. It is
reported that the tribunal usually adds 30-40% to the price offered by
the government, but that this process takes on average two years. Clearly
if the owner were able to use his escrow account and expectations of a
suitable award as collateral in acquiring a bank loan at a rate of interest
of 12% or less, it will be in his interests to appeal the decision of the
authorities. Many do.
18.       The principle for compensation is market value.  No addition is
made for the surplus value, over and above the market value, which an owner
attaches to this plot, although it is possible and perhaps likely that this
may emerge in the tribunal hearings. The delay in settlement and the
absence of interest payments on the escrow account, however, suggest that
the final outcome does not reflect the surplus value to the owner. 1/
Land Taxes
19.       Costa Rica has imposed taxes on the capital value of land and
buildings since 1939 whether they are occupied, or cultivated, or not. The
tax is charged as an increasing percentage of the assessed value of an
entity's total holding. Beginning with an exemption limit of ¢ 4,000 the
tax rate rises from 0.3% to ¢ 250,000 to 1.05% on holdings exceeding e 3
million. The tax rate on unused land rises even more steeply, according
to the total area of land owned by the entity; from 0.25% in the 100 to
250 hectares bracket, it rises to 2-1/2% for 5,000 hectares or more.
20.       However, such rates are fierce only in theory not in fact.  There
is universal undervaluation of property, the extent of which was said to
vary both geographically and with respect to the kind of property. It was
suggested that domestic residences in San Jose are usually valued at about
1/   The formal recognition of the surplus value of a property has been
reflected, for example, in the Land Compensation Act, 1973 of the
United Kingdom, but it is not yet a widespread practice in other
countries.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
40 percent of their market value. And there are many ways of avoiding the
tax--by splitting holdings among members of the family, by paper transac-
tions at low prices to bring down the valuation, etc. Empty land is
reportedly even more underassessed more than other assets.
The motive of the land taxation is clear; on the one hand, the
Costa Rican government wishes to collect taxes in respect of the services
supplied by the public authorities, and on the other hand, it wishes to
inhibit large landholding by the rich. To examine the extent to which
the government has achieved these aims would require additíonal study.
Costa Rica does not have a betterment tax per se, although an
annual tax on the capital value operates along the línes of a betterment
tax. The significant dífference, however, is that as unused land becomes
developed, the rates of tax may fall. There is clearly a need to look
further into the existing land taxes to explore the anomalies and to
examine whether change would be desirable.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
Financial Costs of Rights-of-Way in 1977 Colones
New Construction
or Improvement                 Land                  Buildings
Hatillo - Easterly
new radial                  2,266,000                416,000
Hatillo - Westerly
new radial                  1,105,000                250,000
Desamparados short
new radial                  6,225,000                150,000
Desamparados - 4 lane
widening                    1,383,000                591,000
Tibas - new radial           26,955,000              4,403,000
San Pedro - widening          1,352,000                345,000
San Sebastian -
widening                    1,015,000                 356,000
La Uruca - widening           1,895,000               1,468,000
Guadalupe - widening            909,000                 284,000



ANNEX 7
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements for       Cumulative Disbursements
each Quarter            at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)              (US$ Million)
1977/78
March 1978                          0.11                       0.11
June 1978                           0.69                       0.80
1978/79
September 1978                      1.98                       2.78
December 1978                       2.00                       4.78
March 1979                          1.90                       6.68
June 1979                           1.85                       8.53
1979/80
Septembier 1979                     1.69                      10.22
December 1979                       1.63                      11.85
March 1980                          1.27                      13.12
June 1980                           1.27                      14.39
1980/81
September 1980                     1.06                      15.45
December 1980                       1.05                      16.50
Total                     16.50



ANNEX 8
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
The Traffic Management Component
A. Policy
1.        The underlying basis of the present project in its approach to
the solution of transport and travel problems in San Jose is that the
medium term transport-travel demand can be accommodated on the existing
transport network provided that:
-    some relatively modest improvements are made to the
existing highway network, supplemented by a res-
tricted amount of new road construction; and
-    adequate traffic management and public transport im-
provement measures can be implemented to ensure that
the available capacity of the system is utilized to its
maximum.
2.        Nevertheless, if present patterns of urban development and pre-
sent policies continue unchanged, growing population and travel demand
together with increasing car ownership will lead to inadequate capacíty
on both the radíals and the central city street network.
3.        Thus on the understanding that maximum utilization of exísting
resources, both fixed (roads, etc.) and mobile (buses), is mandatory -- a
view that is accepted by the Costa Rican government -- it is essential that
an pctive program of traffic management be instituted in San Jose in con-
ju ction with the present project. In this context, the term 'management
implies, not only operational measures of a traffic engineering character,
but also administrative programs, strategies for public transport operation,
and enforcement considerations.
4.        Traffic management in its widest sense is the application of
measures and policies dealing with the operation, regulation, and pricing
of the transport system such that maximum use is made of the existing
system and new investment in costly capital projects is avoided or deferred.
B. Organization Requírement
5.        To enable the objective stated in para. 4 above to be achieved
through the application of traffic management methods, the Consultants in
the preparation of the project for appraisal have recommended a considerable



ANNEX 8
Page 2
strentheníng and reorganization of DGTA, the department responsible for
traffic planning in San Jose. The mission considered these recommendations
reasonable and the government has indicated their general willingness to
organize the Directorate in such a way that a Departamento de Ingeniera de
Transito is created to carry out traffic and transport planning in the
metropolitan area.  The proposed department will encompass four funetional
divisions (see Chart 17643):
(a)  Traffic Signals Dívision which will be responsible
for all aspects of traffic signal control related
to the planning, design, improvement, and maintenance
of all installations, including the proposed new CBD
Traffic Signal System.
(b) Traffic Signs and Marking Division, which will be res-
ponsible for design, manufacture, and installation of all
traffic signs and the establishment of standards.
(c) Traffic Planning and Engineering Division, which will be
responsible for all planning tasks related to traffic
management and engineering, including traffic circulation,
parking, accident analysis, and street geometrics (ínter-
section layouts).
(d)  Truck Movement Control Division which will be responsible
for all problems related to truck movements such as truck
routes, on and off street loading problems, and weighing
stations.
Additionally, a Traffic and Transport Policy Studies Unit would be created.
This group would be ínvolved in the analytical aspects of traffic planning
and would provide specialist advice to the other groups. The group would
be oriented towards the planning aspects of traffic management and would
liaise with the four operational groups or divisions who will deal mainly wíth
the aspects of traffic planning involved in scheme implementation. The
Policy Studies Group's major role would be to develop and evaluate forward
policies, within the general policy guidelines and objectives established by
Government.
6.        The project will include technical aasistance in the field of
traffic management planning (details presented ir Annex 4).  A Senior
Traffic Management Adviser is included unde: the project for a period of
two years.  This Adviser will be available at ¿he outset of the project both
to assist in the establishment of the expanded traffic management unit and
to assist in the conduct of the initíal program of work (see following
section). The Senior Traffic Adviser will be located in the Policy Studies
Group and thus be in a position to be aware of, and to offer advice on,
the work of all four operational groups. A Traffic Signals Adviser is also
included within the project. While the major tasks for this Adviser will be
to assist in the rapid progression of the CBD Traffic Signals project com-
ponent and the coordination of traffic signals contracts in other project



ANNEX 8
Page 3
elements, he should be available, in addition, to assist in the expansion
of the traffic signals division and to ensure that the expanded division
is organized to meet the growing needs in this particular technical area.
C. Work Programs
7.        The Work Programs of the existing units are relatively straight-
forward. The Signals Division will be responsible for the installation
of the CBD Traffíc Signal system, for the signals aspects of the radial
improvement and TOPICS components, for fine-tuning all siguals, and for ex-
panding the pedestrian signal program. To carry out these tasks, the
division will have to be strengthened. An Installation and Maintenance
Manager plus three technicians will be required for the implementation of
the CBD Traffíc Signals System.  Further staff should be added as demands
on the division increase. The Signs and Markings Division will be respon-
sible for communicating information about the traffic control plan to road
users, through warning and information signs and clear road markings. The
key elements in such a program include an increase in the number of signs
and markings, a more uniform system, and more rigorous maintenance. Equip-
ment is being provided under the program, but additional staff will be
required to devise and carry out a systematic program of installation,
ínspection, and repair. Two senior technicians are required to carry out
this task. One should be hired immediately and the other within nine
months.
8.        The two other units are new and, hence, staffing requirements
and work programs must be devised. The Consultants recommend that at full
strength the Traffic Planning and Engineering Division should contain a
staff of 21 persons. It is advisable to start with a minimum professional
staff of six: one experienced traffic engineer, two young engineers, and
three support professionals, trained in engineering, economics, or statis-
tics. The unit should be created and the basic staff hired as soon as
possible after negotiations in order to obtain maximum benefit from the
Senior Traffíc Adviser.
9.        The work program of this unit will include:
(a) monitoring the effectiveness of the project in improving
travel conditions;
(b)  developing a program for the expansion of exclusive
bus facilities;
(c) develop a scheme to give at least limited priority
to other high occupancy vehicles, such as car pools
and to control the use of low occupancy vehicles;
(d) carry out a study of parking supply, demand, and
rates, and make recommendations for changes;



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(e)  develop a traffic circulation plan, including one-way
streets, street closures, an expanded TOPICS programs,
etc.;
(f) develop a program of improvements to pedestrian facilities,
including footpaths, crossings, bus shelters, etc; and
(g)  develop a program to improve traffic safety and reduce
accidents.
10.       Tentative terms of reference for these tasks have been provided
by the consultants. (See Attachments 1, 2, and 3 for the major elements
to be contained in the terms of reference for the major studies.) These
draft terms of reference will be developed by the Director of the Departa-
mento de Ingeniera de Transito, the Senior Traffic Adviser, and the unit
head into an integrated work program for the unit.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Page 1
Priority Treatments for Bus Movements
1.        Bus príority measures can involve three different classes of
treatment:
(a) bus loading improvements, including redesigned stops
and bus pull-outs, shelters, and route signing;
(b) control priorities for buses moving on mixed-traffic
roads which involve such measures as special turns,
contra-flow lanes, and preferential signal timing; and
(c) providing roadway priorities through special lanes or
bus-only streets.
2.        The first class of improvements can include:
(a) repaving and widening of sidewalks at bus stops,
including improvements in the curb and gutter condi-
tions to permit easier boarding and major stops,
erecting bus shelters where sidewalk wídth permits;
(b) use of alternate-block stopping and, where necessary,
recessed bus bays, particularly at the end of routes,
with special treatment for re-entering the roadway
(possibly even the use of pre-emptive signals);
(c)  use of informational signs at bus stops to inhibit
motorist violations of the bus stop and to advise
passengers on route information; and
(d) placement of pedestrian bridges at major stops on wide
roads where there is concern for the safety of the
passengers.
3.        Several control prioríty measures can be recommended in coordi-
nation with other traffíc management measures:
(a) preferential signal timing for those streets (or turns)
which carry a large number of buses, particularly outside
the central area system;
(b) special turn provisions for buses only or, on the con-
trary, special turn prohibitions for other types of
vehicles. (This treatment is expected to be used at
Avenida 2, where turns from this street will be pro-
hibited between Calles 9 and 14 when it is made two-way.);
and



ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Page 2
(c) development of contra-flow techniques, whereby buses
move against the general traffic flow on a one-way
street. This requires a sufficiently wide street and
large bus volumes for successful use.
4.        The third class of priority treatments for buses involves the
designation of all or parts of streets for the exclusive use of buses.
This means that buses can operate without interference from other traffic.
5.        At the present time some bus lanes have been designated (Avenida 2,
for example). This idea can be strengthened by the use of special signs
(preferably overhead) and bolder pavement markings. However, the success
of priority treatments can only come from proper use by the bus drivers,
the education of other drivers, and a strong level of enforcement, with
stiff penalties for víolators.
6.        Bus-only streets and rearrangement of the bus routes se that routes
traverse the CDB on these bus-only streets can be introduced. The idea has
merit only when bus volumes warrant their use and all the proper adjustments
have been made: bus routes, stops, sígnalization, signs, parking controls,
access to abutting property, and public notice.
7.        A third possible treatment for roadway priority is the development
of busways, which are defined as limited access, bus-only facilities. Specíal
design measures are necessary and, with them, high bus capacities are possible.
The major concerns include provisions for stops, securing necessary right-of-
way, grade separation (or other vehicle crossing treatments), and treatments
at the ends of the busway.
8.        A traffic management program for San Jose involves continued investí-
gations of all the places where bus priorities can be implemented via regula-
tions, controls, and possibly construction. The application of good princi-
ples of traffic management will obviously help traffic flow -- and thereby
help bus flow; but it will be particularly important to pay special attention
to bus priorities in the context of proper urban growth.
9.        The study team will examine a wide range of bus priority measures,
including the examples set out above. Each will- he evaluated in terms of
its potential for improving bus flows in San jose. taking into account suc-
cessful experience elsewhere, the extent to which the solution matches the
problem, and the operational and enforcement experience with the bus lanes
implemented as part of the urban transport project.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 2
Page 1
Parking Regulation and Control
1.        In any congested city, the extent of parking regulation and con-
trol has considerable impact on the ability of the streets to handle traffic
flow. Although city streets are primarily built to move vehicles, the nature
of urban development requires that reasonable parking provision be made for
cars, emergency vehicles, or trucks, and buses. A parking program for the
central area of San Jose should be developed if more efficient use of the
streets is to be obtained. Therefore, this traffic management task is directed
at the analysis of parking needs and the development of a practical set of
parking controls.
2.        It is clear that the present parking problem in the metropolitan
area is, for the most part, situated in the CBD. Outside the CBD, devel-
opment is less intense, streets are wider, and lane use is generally resí-
dential in character. The intensity of commercial development in the CBD
has generated substantial truck parking and customer parking, which is largely
carried out on the streét. No coordinated program of off-street loading or
parking is evident.
3.        The first step in the improvement program should be a detailed
parking study which will include:
(a)  an inventory of existing authorized curb and off-street
spaces, and parking rates;
(b) a survey of the present use of both legal and illegal
parking spaces;
(c) an assessment of the current relationship between parking
supply and the demand;
(d) interviews with parkers to determine their trip purpose
and destination as a pedestrian;
(e) an analysis of the potential growth of demand in the
light of likely commercial development;
(f) assessment of future requirements for parking spaces;
(g) assessment of the likely impact on central area trip
attraction of raising prices and/or restricting supply;
(h)  development of a recommended parking plan for the CBD;
and
(i) development of guidelines and procedures for enforcement
of the parking plan.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 2
Page 2
The study will need to take into account the expected growth of
commerce, the projected increase in traffic on CBD streets, plans for bus
services in the center, and policies as to public and private vehicle usage.
In a typical urban area, solutions for parking problems involve relatively
severe restrictions on the use of streets for parking and the development
of off-street spaces. Additional parking development in the center --
particularly for long-term or working parkers -- runs counter to the ob-
jective of discouraging private car travel in the center. Thus, the oft-
street solution usually involves recommendations for private car parking
putside the CBD near public transport lines and encouragement of the use
of buses. San Jose should be no exception, and the present off-street
spaces should be tailored (via pricing) to short-term parking so that more
efficient use can be made of each space.
5.        The curb parking recommendations (following the future study)
will undoubtedly require additional attention to several measures which
are now in operation, but not sufficiently applied:
(a) location of metered parking to encourage turnover;
(b) full time or peak-hour restrictions, where traffic
needs are paramount;
(c) increase in parking fees to help discourage private
car travel;
(d) signing of parking regulations;
(e) clear and distinct pavement and curb markings for
parking spaces of different types;
(f) facilities for residential parkíng where needed;
(g) identification of loading/unloading spaces; and
(h) a public education program to obtain rapid recognition
of parking programs and regulations.
6e        None of the above actions can be effective, however, without a
greatly improved program of enforcement. Thus, the regulation and control
of parking is a coordination effort of the traffic authorities (DGTA) and
the police authorities (DGT), with the cooperation of the Municipaiíty.
7.        The need for a parking plan is obvious.  It must be made on the
basis of sound survey data and reflect the growth patterns of the city,
ín the context of traffic and car usage policies of the government. This
part of the improvement program will be perhaps the most visibly effec-
tive means of achieving better use of the streets. Regardless of circula-
tion planning (bus streets, one-way streets, etc.), without a well enforced
plan of parking control, effective management of traffic is not possible.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 3
Page 1
Control of Low-Occupany Vehicles
1.        One of the principal objectives of traffic management in the
metropolitan area is to give priority to bus travel thereby providing a
better means of moving people. The Voorhees report 1/ expressed this
objective as "To improve the quality of private vehicle street traffic in the
Central Area only to the extent that existing street space for such traffic
movement remains after complete satisfaction of bus needs." Therefore, it
is essential that measures be examined that increase the priority given
to buses, allow limited priority to other "high-occupancy" vehicles such
as car pools, and discourage the inefficient use of low occupancy vehicles,
particularly cars containing only one or two people. Therefore, a wide
range of measures should be examined and a package of actions developed
that represents an innovative and pragmatic approach to this growing problem
in San Jose. The following considerations, among others, should be given
careful attention:
(a) taxes on ownership (import duties, registration fees, etc.)
are generally believed not to have a strong influence on
the usage of cars at specifíc times and in specific places.
The evidence in San Jose should be evaluated to confirm
that this is likely to be the case;
(b) gasoline prices can be expected to continue to rise as
the price of imported oil increases. This will have some
effect on car usage, but previous experience indicates it
will not be a major deterrent to car travel in the city;
(c) a program should be consídered to encourage the sharing of
rides by private vehicle, especially on work and school
trips. Priority parking spaces could be made available
to car pool vehicles, or toll concessions could be made
for group riding, for example on the Autopista General
Canas. In the U.S.A. many employers are now using van-
pools for employees, i.e., certain employees drive
colleagues to work in vans provided and maintained by
their employers;
(d)  some cities have used the techniques of creating car-free
zones, permitting only pedestrians, service trucks, and
public transport vehicles to enter the zone. In the light
of the adverse court action regarding the closure of Avenida
Central, the legal implications of this type of measure in
San Jose will need to be very carefully considered;
1/   San Jose Area Transportation Study, Final Technical Report, Alan M.
Voorhees and Associates, March 1976.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 3
Page 2
(e) another measure to consider is the creation of an area
licensing scheme, whereby entry to Central Area would
require a relatively expensive license. This system
requires carefuly control and enforcement but when applied
to peak hours, in-bound traffic (as in Singapore) it is
a very strong measure to be used when a high degree of dis-
couragement is required, but does have the effect of
dramatically reducing the use of low occupancy vehicles
in a selected section of the metropolitan area. As part
of the work of the Advisers under the Project, the methods
and effects of this scheme will be carefully analyzed;
(f) the use of staggered work hours could be used to reduce
peak hour travel. This would have the double impact of
reducing car traffic and making the buses less crowded
in the peak hour;
(g) since car-free zones or an area licensing scheme are likely
to be too strong at present for San Jose, a CBD policy
of more severe parking controls should be examined
with a view to implementing them as quickly as possible:
- parking prohibitions at the curb, thus freeing a
larger portion of the street for moving traffic in
the peak and all day.
- an increase in parking meter rates to help discourage
their use by long-term parkers.
- immediate action on the control of additional parking
facilities, with a permit to be required for all off-
street parking. This will have a particular effect
on the use of vacant lots as interim parking areas.
- setting of a charge for off-street parking that dis-
courages long-term parkers to induce workers to use
public transport for all or part of their trips.
- cooperation with private enterprise in the provision
of long-term parking outside the CBD, in close proximity
to public transport routes.
- control on residential parking ín and near the CBD, by
designating certain spaces for residential use only.
This has the effect of reducing the inventory of avail-
able commercial spaces and also encourages the owner
to leave his car at home where he has a space provided.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 3
Page 3
The study team will have to coordinate their efforts in this area with the
work to be done on the development of a parking policy for San Jose.
2.        In summary, the existing controls on car ownership have the effect
of keeping car ownership levels down, despite a rising economy in Costa Rica.
In the program to be developed, on the basis of measures such as the ones
described above, the usage of low occupancy vehicles particularly for trips
to the CBD will also be controlled.



ANNEX 9
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Public Transport
1.        This annex sets out the details of public transport operation in
San Jose, the regulatory environment, and the actions that will be taken
under the project to increase local planning and regulatory capacity.
A. Description of Public Transport Operations
2.        Public transport operations in San Jose are predominantly bus
operations. Taxis carry a very small percentage of total traffic and para-
transit servíces do not exist. The industry is made up of about 240 private
operators running about 500 buses to carry over 500,000 passengers daily
(about 75% of all person trips). Ownership is highly fragmented: only half
a dozen companies own more than ten buses, and well over a hundred own only
one. The bus fleet is made up almost completely of standard size buses,
generally a bus body on a truck chassis. About 25 different manufacturers
are represented in the fleet, together with buses that defy indentification.
Fifty-five percent of the fleet is less than 7 years old, 23% is 8-10 years
old, and 22% is even older. In 1976, it was estimated that 43% of the fleet
was in good condition, 39% was fair, and 18% was in bad condition.
3.        This varied fleet operates over a route system that provides rea-
sonably good service for the urban area. The newly urbanized areas are less-
well served, as operators tend to wait for demand to build up before applying
for new concessions or extensions to old ones. Nevertheless, most of the
urbanized area is within 350 meters of a bus line. Most of the bus lines
converge on the center of San Jose. This poses problems for crosstown trips,
which amount to about half the trips entering the center. People making
such trips not only have to transfer in the center, but also have to pay two
fares.  The Government is aware of the problem and recently gave out con-
cessíons for three experimental crosstown routes.
4.        Although the route coverage in San Jose is by and large adequate,
some problems exist in regard to the reliability of the servíces. Service
unreliability due to mechanical failure appears to be of relatively little
importance since the small owner-operator has strong incentives to keep his
bus in service and get out-of-service buses back into operation as quickly
as possible. Nevertheless, should a breakdown occur, the small operator
is unable to provide a spare bus and service is temporarily discontínued.
Some service unreliability, and hence delay to passengers, comes from
bunching. Given the competition on each route, buses have a tendency to



ANNEX 9
Page 2
run in convoys, each trying to get to a given bus stop first. Not only
does this lead to speeding and dangerous overtaking, it also is an incentive
for buses to skip stops in an attempt to be first at a subsequent stop with
more people. The major cause of delay to passengers, however, is inadequate
capacity, leading to overcrowding and passengers being left behind at stops.
The Governnent is taking steps to expand the fleet, but wíth so many oper-
ators, it is a very large task to control the system and provide checks on
operator performance--whether headways are being maintained, whether the
operator is usíng the stipulated number of buses on his routes, etc. Steps
should be taken to expand MOPT capacity, to monitor operations, and carry out
effective surveillance of operating standards.
5.        Overall, it i  clear that the burdens of administratíon--issuing
concessions, studying routes, etc.--and of controlling service standards are
very heavy in such a competitive industry.
6.        The basic principle underlying fare determination in San Jose ls
the cost of providing the service. The Government carries out studies of
operating costs based on the financial statements submitted by operators.
In fact, only about 35% of operators submit the required accounts, but thís
constitutes enough information for fare determination. The fare studies
estimate the average operating cost per passenger over several operators
on a given line. To this is added a "fair" return of 25% - 18% to represent a
reasonable profit margin plus 7% to provide an incentive to operators to
provide servíces.
7.        The fare study carried out in 1976 showed that fares should be
raised from ¢ 0.40 (¢ 0.50 for buses two years old or less) to ¢ 0.50 (« 0.60
for buses two years old or less). The fare increase was announced but public
pressure forced the Government to revoke the increase.  The Governnent has
a history of finding it politically inexpedient to raise fares, wíth the
results that (a) fares are low and (b) when they do increase they increase
sharply which causes more political pressure. Fares were 20 centimos from
1960 to 1972. They were raised to 25 centimost in 1972, 35 centimos in
1974, and 40 centimos in 1975.
8.        In spite of the fact that the Government believes fares to be too
low, bus operations still appear to be highly profitable and concessions
(even fractions of concessions) change hands for large sums of money. Very
few operators have given up their franchises in recent years and those that
have been quickly replaced by other operators willing and able to take over.
However, there is some evidence--increased overcrowding, poor maintenance
standards, and an aging of the bus fleet--that bus operator profits are
being maintained at the expense of the quality of service offered to the
travelling public.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
B. Regulation of Public Transport Operators
Responsibilities
9.        All publi.c transport operations in Costa Rica are covered by the
LEY REGULADORA DEL TRANSPORTE REMUNERADO DE PERSONAS EN VEHICULOS AUTOMOTORES
(no. 3503; 2/2/68). Under this law, the state assumes the exclusive right
to offer public transport services. This right can be exercised directly,
through other state ínstitutions, or by giving concessions to private entre-
preneursi- The Ministry of Public Works and Transport is completely responsi-
ble for all matters concerning public transport.
10.       The specific executing body is the Comísion Technica de Transportes
(CTT) made up of the Director of the Direccion General de Transporte Automotor
(DGTA) as president, the Procurador Administrativo, and representatives of the
Direccion General de Planíficacion, the Ministry of Economics, Industry, and
Commerce, and the Direccion General de Transito. The Commision acts on
recommendations from three units in the Ministry.
Departamento de Transporte Remunerado de Personas
11.       This department in the Direccion General de Transporte Automotor
acts as secretariat to the CTT and is responsible for making studies and
recommendations to CTT on bus permits and concessions. Most concessions were
renewed for seven years in 1976. However, it still inspects bus operations
for standard of vehicles, adherence to schedules, and number of buses operating
(the concession specifies the number of buses that should be used on a given
line). It has 12 inspectors working in the San Jose area (plus 3 more for the
rest of the country). If the inspectors find service or vehicle irregulari-
ties, this department starts proceedings through the Commision. The department
appears to be fairly active in this respect and most operators make the
required improvements. In the last year or so, five operators lost their
concessions as a result of these proceedings.
12.       This department also has the responsíbility for studying new lines,
the capacity on existing lines, and possible extensions, with a view to
recommending the issue of bid requests for new concessions or modifications
to existing ones. In fact, this cannot he done on a systematic basis due to
a lack of staff and basic financial and operating data. In general, lines
are only reviewed in response to requests or complaints from the public.  The
department also carries out passenger counts as a check on the data submitted
by operators along with their financial statements.
Division de Transporte Publico
13.       This division in the DGTA's Departamento de Ingeniera de Transito is
responsible for public transport studies. They carry out continuing studies



ANNEX 9
Page 4
of the number of buses, frequency, and capacity, as well as passenger volumes.
They produce monthly estimates of bus passenger flows. They also claim to
do special studies of new concessions, and extensions in length or capacity
of existing concessions.
14.       While this division is concerned with planning and the Departamento
de Transporte Remunerado de Personas is concerned with regulatory control,
there is clearly an overlap of functions, although the respective heads do
try to coordinate activities.
Oficina Tarifaria
15.       This office is located in the Direccion General de Planificacion.
It acts in the name of the Direccion General de Transporte Automotor in
receiving, filing, and analyzing the financial and statistical reports and
accounts that are required to be submitted by private operators. The accounts
are used as a basis for fare studíes, which are carried out by the Oficina
Tarifaria.
Government Policies
16.       Current government policy is to favor private enterprise in the
provision of public transport services. There is no sign that this policy
will change. However, partly from a desire to help poor people and largely
as a result of extremely strong political pressure, the government has kept
bus fares relatively low.  In the past, this inability to raise fares led
the government to establish two types of subsidy. The first was for general
distribution to operators on the basis of the number of passengers carríed
more than 5.5 km (a total of 9 3 million (US$350,000) in 1976). More
recently, the general subsidy was replaced by a subsidy program administered
by TRANSMESA (see below).  Government officials are aware of the fact that
public transport subisidies have a tendency to grow and becomie an onerous
burden on the national budget, but they believe it will be difficult polití-
cally to eliminate the subsidies in the short run (i.e., before the coming
election).
TRANSMESA
17.       TRANSMESA is a corporate state institution and subsidiary of
CODESA, a similar autonomous Government corporation. It receives funds
from the profíts of RECOPE (another CODESA subsidiary) on the sale of fuel.
It was created in 1976 with the principal objective of modernizing and
improving public transport in the San Jose area. It is authorized to
indulge in a wide range of activities to meet this objective.
18.       Buses.  TRANSMESA sees as its first task the modernization of the
bus fleet which had become run down as a result of Government's inability



ANNEX 9
Page 5
to raise fares, with the result that operators had neíther the capital nor
the incentive to maintain, replace, or expand their fleets.  TRANSMESA pro-
vides new buses at good prices by buying in substantial quantities and by
taking advantage of supplíers' credits at favorable interest rates. Both
the prices and the interest rates that can be obtained by TRANSMESA are far
lower than those available to private operators. The total cost of a bus
is about ¢ 225,000 which means ¢ 307,000 including interest charges over
five years. However, at the time TRANSMESA was buying its first buses,
the Government was making its unsuccessful attempt to raise bus fares and
it was decided that the loss to the bus operators could be made up by a
capital subsidy on the TRANSMESA buses. Given an average of 30,000 passen-
gers per bus per month and a fare of 10í below the "proper" cost-based fare,
it was estimated that the failure to increase fares cost the bus operator
¢ 3,000 per bus per month. Thus, TRANSMESA agreed to pay ¢ 3,000 toward
the monthly repayments on the new buses it supplies. The subsidy ís paid
out of TRANSMESA's budget, which comes from the profits made by RECOPE on
the refining and sale of gasoline and diesel fuels. The result is a cross-
subsidy from motor vehicle users to bus users. Assuming a bus life of
5.5 years (which also corresponds to the average term of suppliers' credit),
the TRANSMESA subsidy is ¢ 200,000 per bus. This leaves ¢ 107,000 to be
paid by the operators in 36 monthly installments (36 because TRANSMESA
wants its money back during the most productive part of the bus's life).
19.       The Government intends to raise bus fares early next year.  When
this happens and fares are properly related to costs, TRANSMESA will cease
to pay the 0 3,000 subsidy. (This is written into the TRANSMESA/operator
contracts.)
20.       Thus, in the future, TRANSMESA will only pre-finance buses, taking
advantage of its favorable bargaining position. It aims to moderníze the
fleet by buying a total of 319 new buses. It will renovate 100 more and,
together with about 75 that were new to start with (bought recently by pri-
vate operators) this will give a modern fleet of about 500 buses. After
that, TRANSMESA will buy only for replacement and for fleet expansion in
response to demand increases.
21.       Inspection and Maintenance.  To ensure that the new vehicles will
not deteriorate rapidly, TRANSMESA has a two-phase proposal for inspection and
maintenance facilities. In the first phase, buses would have to be inspected
regularly and operators would have to rectify faults before a vehicle could
go back into service. The repairs would be carried out at private garages.
In the second phase, a maintenance workshop and spares depot is proposed
to do the repairs. TRANSMIESA is aware of the problems of obliging operators
to use its facilities and is considering turning over the workshop, once
it is established, to the operators through a joint ownersh'ip or cooperatíve
arrangement.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
22.       Trolley Buses.  The Government intends to conclude an agreement
with the Russian Government for the supply of a trolley bus system to
link Pavas with Central San Jose. The cost is about 0 38 million (O 55
million including local costs). TRANSMESA intends to pre-finance the system
but operation would be given as a concession to a private operator. (It is
likely that Fuerza y Luz would maintain the overhead network and the electrical
substations.)
23.       Mini-buses.  TRANSMESA also intends to buy up to 150 mini-buses
to be re-sold at cost to private operators. They would be used for express
services from high income neighborhoods in San Jose at a higher fare (perhaps
¢ 2). TRANSMESA is also interested in expanding this type of operation to
other innovative types of public transport services, e.g., circumferential
routes, articulated buses, smaller buses.
D. Public Transport Development Program
24.       The physical environment for public transport will be improved
by the measures being taken under the project to widen radíals, install
exclusive bus lanes, improve traffic signals, etc. The regulating and
planning environment will be improved by the administrative charges that
will accompany the physical components, by technical assistance to the
units to be created, and by agreements on the work program and policy
orientation of these units.
Reorganization within DGTA
25.       The administrative reorganization recommended by the consultants
(Wilbur Smith and Associates (USA)) are shown in Chart 17643. It involves
combining the three scattered DGTA units that deal with public transport
into a new Departamento de Transporte Publico. The department will con-
tain four divisions with the following basic responsibilities.
26.       Concessions and Permits.  This division will carry out the func-
tions of the current Departamento de Transporte Remunerado de Personas -
issuing concessions, making recommendations on new concessions and exten-
sions, and continuing to act as the Secretariat to the Comision Technica de
Transportes.
27.       Bus Surveys and Inspection.  This division will carry out surveys
to determine (a) current service levels and (b) changes in demand. It will
work with Concessions and Permits to determine requirements for new services



ANNEX 9
Page 7
and will recommend when action should be taken against delinquent operatíons.
It will be equivalent to the current Division de Transporte Publíco in
DGTA's Departamento de Ingenierea de Transito.
28.       Financial Divísion.  This division will carry out the functions of
DGP's Oficina Tarifaria and will extend these functions to ensure that
financial and operating reports are made available by more operators and that
information is summarized, analyzed, and presented regularly to the depart-
ment director. The division will also carry out regular fare studies.
29.       Vehicle Service Standards and Inspections.  This divisíon will
establish bus service standards and devise an inspection program to check
on a regular basis (at least quarterly) the fitness for service of all buses
operating in San Jose. This division will act as GDTA's liaíson with
TRANSMESA to establish the Bus Inspection Facility that will be set up by
the Ministry under the project.
30.       The department will also benefit from the Traffic and Transport
Policy Study Unit that will be set up to advise the director of DGTA and
from the expatriate advisors that will be provided under the project.
31.       It is understood that the Government will provide adequate staff
to enable the new department to perform its important functions, and espe-
cially to carry out the specific elements in its work program that are
set out below.
Departmental Work Program
32.       Several specific tasks should be carried out by the new department.
33.       Determine Adeguacy of Bus Servíces.  This involves two elements.
The first is to exaine the extent to which current bus routes coincide with
the origin-destination patterns of travellers, particularly with regard to
cross-town trips and newly urbanized areas. The second is to examine, for
each route, the relationship between bus capacity provided and demand,
particularly with regard to the effect that inadequate capacity may have on
headways, schedule adherence, and passenger delays. In addition, the suit-
abílity of bus types used and the potential for different types of servíce
- larger buses, smaller buses, express services, etc. - will be evaluated.
34.       Review Fare Levels.  This involves obtaining up-to-date fínancial
statements from a reasonable sample of operators and carrying out a fare
review to determine current operating costs and, on the basis of the "fair"
return principle employed in Costa Rica, the appropriate level of fares.
35.       Review Fare Structures.  In addition to looking at the levels of
fares, the department will examine their structure to determine whether the
current (basically) flat fare should be retained. The study will take into



ANNEX 9
Page 8
account the relationship between distance travelled and operating costs, the
number of people on each line travelling.different distances, as well as the
benefits in accounting obtained from a simple system.
36.       Review Procedure for Granting Concessions.  The department will
review and evaluate the procedures used for granting concessions with parti-
cular respect to their efficiency, the time taken, and the degree of real
competition that they stimulate.
37.       Devise Specifications and Establish Bus Inspection Program.  The
department will develop the specificationa for buses that operate in San
Jose and devise an inspection program to ensure that buses meet appropriate
operating standards.
38.       Other Tasks.  In addition, the Department will (a) review the
financial statements required from operators to ensure both that unnecessary
data are not requested and that good use is made of the data received;
(b) examine the possibility of establishing an information system to provide
users with information on routes and schedules; and (c) review the perfor-
mance of the trolley bus system once it has been installed and is operating
under normal conditions.



Annex 10
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN PROJECT
Economic Justification
Introduction
1.        For each of seven major corridors leading into San Jose, economic
analysis was used to fínd the particular road improvement, chosen from sev-
eral alternatives, to be included within the project. Although previous
transport studies had evaluated and apparently justified on cost-benefit
grounds a beltway and a large number of new radial roads into San Jose,
analysis revealed that most of the benefits alleged to flow from the new
radials could be gained by much smaller expenditures on widening and
rehabilitating existing highways.
2.        The principles of the economic evaluation are presented in Section
A. Then the following four sections correspond to the main steps in the pro-
cedure:
B.   Forecast of traffic for each corridor and assignment
of traffic to different road links for the years
1981 and 1990.
C.   Determination of standard user costs for both vehicle
operation and time at different speeds over different
qualities of road.
D.   Calculation of benefits for a particular alternative,
determined by subtracting the projected user costs
incurred on that alternative from the projected costs
of confirmed use of the unimproved road.
E.   Choosing the best of the proposed alternatives for
each corridor. For some corridors, as many as three
alternatives were evaluated, including construction
of new radials within the corridor. Most alternatives
had benefit-cost ratios of more than one and high
internal rates of return. The best alternatives were
determined on the basis of highest net present values.
This test revealed that in comparison with the more
modest alternatives, the marginal benefits of the more
expensive alternatives were generally less than the
additional costs.
3.        In addition to carrying out economic analysis for road improvements,
the signalization program was also evaluated in Section F. No attempt has
been made to assess the training program, technical assistance, and the TOPICS



Annex 10
Page 2
measures in terms of cost-benefit analysis.  This is in part because of the
lack of a detailed data base (particularly in the case of TOPICS), and partly
because of the inherent difficulties in measuring payoffs (particularly in
training and technical assistance).
A. Principles of Evaluation
(a) Benefits
4.        One may conveniently represent the measurement of benefits for a
particular year (1990) in the form of Figure 1.  The vertical axis represents
the costs of a passenger car unit (pcu), while the horizontal axis represents
the number of vehicle trips (pcus) for a 24-hour day. These measures are
transformations and simplifications of the underlying quantities; the funda-
mental demand is for a passenger trip of a specific length and at a particu-
lar time of day. However, for the purpose of presentation, the problems of
modal choice and peaking are assumed to be constant and unalterable.
5.        The two demand curves D   and Dg  represent the demands for the
road services of the corridor in 1977 and Y990 respectively. These demand
curves are drawn for a particular case - that is, where the 1990 demand curve
intersects the cost curve of the improved road at a cost (C 1) which is the
same as the cost experienced on the existing road in 1977. Thus it is
supposed that the "improved road" is of a standard such that, with the demand
of 1990, the cost conditions experienced by traffic will be the same as they
were in 1977.  The rationale for this supposition, discussed in Section B,
ís that the ETAMSJ study assumed constant cost conditions (at 1973, however)
ín producing their forecasts and so T  in Figure 1 represents the estimate
of 1990 traffic on the assumption thai the particular improved road is then
in situ.
6.        The only evaluation which can be illustrated by the figure is
whether the improved road is worthwhile compared with a do-nothing situation.
In the latter case, costs, with 1990 demand, would have risen to C aand traffic
would have been constrained to T - both corresponding to the nters2ection
E1. The measurement of the benefits for the year 1990 is approxímately:



ANNEX 10
Page 3
FIGURE 1
Cost-flow on
improved
Cost-flow on                          road
existing road
Generalizad
Cost =  C, - - - -----------
[Vehicle 
Operating                                                \
Costi
(#/pcu>        C    _____                  ____                 yI 
Plus time
*,1 1\~~~~~~~~~~~~
T,           Te           T,                               Vehicle trips
(pcu per day)
Fig 1 = Cost and Fiow (when road ímprovement maintains same vehicle
operating coat pluw time cost as in 19771
C, - Cost bofore (1977> and after (1990) improvement
C. -Cost in 1990 without irnprovement (i.e., the conseauences of a
do--nothing alt.) if elasticity of dernand is zero
Ce2  Cost in 1990 without improvement but with demand curve D,e
T,= 1977 traffic
T2   Estimated traffic in 1990 if cost = C#
Worid Bank - 17709



Annex 10
Page 4
1/2 (Ce    -   C1)  (T2  +  T e)
e2e
This is a comparison of "with ímprovement" and "without improvement" and not
before and after.
7.        This consists of first the lower costs for existing traffic (i.e.,
traffic that would have used the highway in 1990 even though no improvements
had been carried out which is represented by the value (E minus E ) multi-
1 ~~2
plied by the traffic volume The, and secondly the benefits caused by generated
traffic whlch is shown by the triangle E1E2F - and is measured approximately
by (E1 minus E2) multiplied by half the generated traffie T2 minus T . 1/
8.        There is a general rule derived from this methodology:  the higher
the elasticity of demand the lower the benefits of improvement. The rationale
for this seemingly paradoxical proposition is that the higher the elasticity
of demand the better the substitutes for the corridor under consideration;
and the closer the substitutes the `less essential" is it that the corridor
be improved.
9.        Much depends on the appropriate assumptions about the remainder of
the improvements. Since it was quite clear early in the analysis that vir-
tually all the widening and rehabilitation would pass the appropriate tests,
the best assumptíon was that alternative corridors would be improved. How-
ever, because of the independence of the corrídors, this would add little to
the substitution possibílities except in the long run. More sensitive effects
might arise from the proposed beltway around San Jose. These are reviewed in
Section B.
10.       The problem of assigning an elasticity of demand to the corridors
is of some importanee when the constant-cost traffle projection has to be
converted to the new-road traffic projection in circumstances where the new
road reduces costs considerably below those which obtained in 1977. For the
investments that are included in the project, thís effect is likely to be
important only in the case of the new Tibas radial. Also it is of some con-
cern for the new roads that were examined and rejected for inclusion in the
project - namely Hatillo and Desamparados.
1/   It is conceivable tbat a particular elasticíty may imply that the old
facility could not conceivably service the traffíe. This will occur
if the 1990 demand curve lies wholly to the ríght of the cost-flow curve
on the old or existing road. Then one knows that the demand elastiíity
must exceed the assumed value; and one can calculate the elastiícty that
is implied by the old road carrying traffíe to capacíty (near G in Figure
1) and the associated speed and standard of service.



Annex 10
Page 5
11.       The circumstances are illustrated in Figure 2.  This is similar to
Figure 1, except that the demand in 1990 does not intersect the new-road cost
curve at a cost equal to that which obtained in 1977, i.e., C1. So much new
capacity is created by the new construction that, at the forecast, constant-
cost traffic (T 9) costs are well below C1.  Consequently, traffic expands
to T' and costs are C.
90                 2
12.       The appropriate measure for the benefits of the new road relative
to a do-nothing alternative is given by the formula:
1/2 (C    -   C-)  (T   +  T-
e     ~2     e       90
If the forecast constant-cost trafic (T 9) be substituted for T' , the bene-
fits will be underestimated by the value measured by the triangte HFF'.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
FIGURE 2
Old Road
Cost-Flow
---------   -  e   -~~~~~-  -                - -    -  -                                     New
Cost-Flow
Gen.
Cost                                                                                /
[voc plus
time costs]
per pcu              _
e~                     I   11
1  3~~~-1
---   Veh icle trips pcu per day
T,7       T,        T,o   Tso
Fig 2 Cost and Flow (when new road reduces generalized cost to C, below 1977 levei C,)
C, = Cost in 1977
C, = Cost in 1990 without new road with T;0 traffic
C; = Cost in 1990 with new roed and with T;. traffic
CO 5 Cost in 1990 with traffic Toimplied by D09
T;0= Traffic in 1990 on new-road-cost assumption
World Bank - 17710



Annex 10
Page 7
13.       The substantive question remains:  how can an unknown, but non-
trivial, elasticity of demand be reflected in the evaluation? There are ob-
viously advantages in dealing with this problem if one can use a mean of the
"with" and "without" traffic flows in 1990 as the appropriate traffic measure
to include in the evaluation (as in the formulae above). With the fírst-run
evaluation of the alternatives, it was supposed that, if the particular im-
provement had not been carried out, and so if costs had risen above the "con-
stant" level, the absolute traffic increase from 1977 would be only 75% of
the "constant-cost" estimate. (Cet par, this allowed for a higher elastí-
city, the greater the growth of traffíe.)  This arbitrary adjustment did not
affect the ranking of the alternative programs in each corridor but modified
somewhat all NPVs. The selected project, however, was still appropriate on
these slightly lower NPVs. However, this adjustment was not further pursued,
partly because of the arbitrary nature of the implied elasticities and partly
because it lacked transparency.
14.       One alternative way of reflecting the elasticity is to choose a
single value for traffic in 1990 which, for the supposed cost conditions
(either econstant-cost" or the reduced costs of the new radials), is at
the lower end of the expected outcome. This then gives an adjustment in
the right direction - whether it will be too much or too little remains un-
known. A further consideration relates also to the assumptions in calculating
the costs; as will be shown, it has been supposed, and it is believed realis-
tically, that apeeds would not continue to fall on the existing "without"
highway. They fall only to a limit of 10 kph. Thus the rise in costs would
not follow the typical fluid-dynamic analogue of congestion effects; it would
reflect the smoothing of traffic over the day and the discouragement of some
journeys so that the speeds do not fall (and costs rise) to the extent that
a simple application of flow would prediet.
(b) Discounting and the Alternatives - NPV, B/C, and ERR
15.       The benefits and costs were calculated for each year, then were
discounted, using the rate of 12% as the test rate of discount, to find the
net present value (NPV) of benefits minus costs in 1977 constant colones.
This measures in money terms the net gain from carrying through the invest-
ment compared with doing nothing.
16.       Although previous "comprehensi;o transport studies" had evaluated
and apparently justified on cost-benefit grounds a large number of new radial
roads as well as a beltway into San Jose, 1j it was clear to the pre-appraisal
and confUrmed by the appraisal mission that much of the benefits alleged to
flow from the new radíals could be gained by much smaller expenditures on
widening and rehabilitating existing highways. Thus the evaluation was con-
structed so that it explored the net benefits (NPV) from more modest improve-
ments of widening and rehabilitation whíle, at the same time, testing the
1/   See ETAMSJ Final Report, Table VIII-4 (1976).



Annex 10
Page 8
additional net benefits (NPV) of those new radials which clearly ranked
highest in the existing assessments of public officials and engineers. The
basic approach was therefore first to find what net benefits could be ob-
tained by rehabilitation and widening in each of the corridors. Then, se-
condly, the evaluation examined what additional (or marginal) net present
value could be adduced from building a new radial.
17.       When compared with a do-nothing alternative, the fact that a new
radial will pass with a handsome margin the cost-benefit ratio, the ERR or
indeed the positive NPV criterion does not imply that such investments are
worthwhile. It means only that constructing the new radial is better than
doing nothing. To show that a new highway is better than merely widening or
rehabilitating the existing roads one must show that, compared with widen-
ing or rehabilítation, the new radial will produce additional benefits in
excess of the additional costs. Although the chosen investment will have a
benefit-cost ratio greater than unity and an ERR which exceeds the test rate
of discount, the B/C ratio and the ERR on the selected investment are not
necessarily higher than those on the rejected alternatives. Maximization
of the net present value is a sufficient condition for the best choice of
project whereas the B/C and ERR tell us only the necessary condition that
the projects should be considered as better than a do-nothing. 1/
B. Traffic Forecasts
The Main Assumptions
18.       The basic assumptions which underpin the traffic forecasts are as
follows:
(1) The forecasts suppose that traffic in 1990 will enjoy
the same cost conditions as those experienced in
1977 - this is the "constant cost` assumption dis-
cussed above. This may be taken to imply (but need
not necessarily imply) that, on the one hand, for
a given speed the real costs on one kilometer of
travel remain the same, and, on the other hand,
that, hypothetically, such road improvements are
made that the speed of travel is about the same
in 1990 as in 1977. Thus the forecasts reflect the
effects of population and income growth and the
shift of tastes toward travel; they do not reflect
the relative change in the real cost of travel.
1/   All this is consistent with the recommendations in CPN Investment
Criteria in the Economic Analysis of Projects (June 29, 1977)



Annex 10
Page 9
(2) The forecasts assume that there is so little dependence
between the corridors that one can effectively treat
them independently. Similarly it is assumed that the
proposed ríngway, which is unlikely to be in operation
before 1990, will have little effect on the forecasts
for the radíals.
The Process of Estimation
19.       Vehicle traffic volume for the design year 1990 was developed in
'the ETAMSJ study on the basis of 1973 traffic counts, trip rates and planning
projections. The total number of vehicle movements was assigned to two dif-
ferent road networks:
(1) Assuming that all proposed new roads will have been
built by 1990. This is referred to as the "with
project" assumption.
(2) Assuming that no new roads will have been built by
1990, and that all of the future year traffic will
move over the existing road system. This is re-
ferred to as the "without project" assumption.
20.       Traffíc assignments were made for each assumed network on a link-
by-link basis. It was pointed out in ETAMSJ reports 1/ that the traffic
assignment model used for projectíng 1990 traffic volumes was based on an
"all or nothing" algorithm which does not realistically reflect the actual
distribution of traffíc over the old and new elements of the road system
or over alternative routes. Therefore, ETAMSJ made a manual adjustment of
the traffíc volumes on a corridor basis to reflect more accurately "real
life" conditions. Thís adjustment related the model output more closely
to the 1973 traffic counts and corrected the distribution of traffic among
the various elements of the road system. This manual adjustment was done
for both assignments, with or without new roads. But this was carried out
for corridors and not for links. Thus four sets of forecasts were available
from ETAMSJ, viz:
1.   Assuming all planned new roads are built by 1990
a)   All-or-nothing assignment
b)   Manual adjustment of assignment to whole road
system.
1/   ETAMSJ Working Paper No. 22, pages 24-28 (1973).



Annex 10
Page 10
2.   Assuming no new roads are built by 1990
a)   All-or-nothing assignment
b)   Manual adjustment of assignment to whole road
system.
21.       While the manually adjusted figures are not avallable on a segment
or link-by-link basis, these can be computed readily from the adjustment fac-
tors for the corridor for each of the three major categoríes of vehicles -
passenger car, truck, and bus.
22.       First, there appeared little question that the manually adjusted
assignnent was more realistic than the more drastic simplifications of the
all-or-nothing method. Second, the "no new roads" seems the best assumption
to adopt. Many projects which seemed imminent or likely in 1973 now appear
as not worthwhile or long postponable.
23.       Probably the most difficult presumption to pin down is that per-
taining to the proposed beltway. While it is undoubtedly true that the
complete beltway - or even significant quadrants of it - would have a con-
siderable effect on traffic generally, it is not clear whether it would re-
sult in any large change in the use of the roads to be included in the proj-
ect. There would be two effects: first there would be a response in the form
of more travel - including increased number and perhaps longer trips (with
probably some effects on auto ownershíp). This is the response of road users
to the existence of a larger amount of road space, thus one should expect an
increase in the quantity of traffic generally. Secondly, there will be some
diversions of route caused by the presence of the beltway. These two effects
would to some extent offset one another. The beltway will increase traffic
generally, but will also divert some travel from radials.
24.       This offsetting effect is one reason for supposing that the evalu-
ation of the radials will be robust with respect to the beltway. But there
are two other reasons. First, the ETAMSJ Final Technical Report (Table VII -
4) shows that both the Hatillo Radial and Desamparados Radial had benefits
which were affected only by about 3% by the inclusion of all other projects -
by far the largest of which was the beltway. Secondly, it appears that the
costs of the beltway are considerably more than those estimated in ETAMSJ
and that the project ís likely to be redesigned. This suggests that a belt-
way project will slip back into the 1990's and so have a very limited effect
on the assessments.
Cost and Traffic Projections
25.       It is important to be precise about the assumptions underlying
these forecast traffic volumes. Chapters II and III of ETAMSJ Final Tech-
nical Report describe the basis of the "operational forecasts` in Chapter
VI. These forecasts predicted the implications of expected changes in in-
comes, population, car ownership for the given conditions of travel. Essen-
tially, ETAMSJ assumes that the conditions of travel - in terms of money



Annex 10
Page 11
price and time and conditions of conform, etc. - remain the same as they
were in 1973. This amounts to a constant "price" or "generalized cost"
assumption. Thus the predictions assume that, hypothetically, sufficíent
new road capacity is built such that travel conditions remain the same
as they were in 1973.
26.       This methodology assumes that there is no "feedback" on car own-
ership and size of the city. Clearly these will themselves depend on the
travel conditions in the city. However, this assumption i8, in principle,
tenable provided that the particular levels of car ownership, city size,
and other geo-social characteristics are clearly understood to relate to
one and only generalized cost. If new roads are not built, the city will
not expand at the same rate, or, if so many improvements are made that the
conditions of travel ameliorate considerably, then the city may expand even
more rapidly and car ownership may increase at a greater rate than pre-
dicted.
27.       To obtain a single figure for "volume," ETAMSJ calculated for the
road the weighted average from the individual links. Although the road proj-
ects are all. short - averaging 4 km for the new radíals and 2-1/2 km for the
old radials to be upgraded - traffic volumes vary considerably along different
segments or "links" of the roadway. For analysis, therefore, it vas de-
sirable to divide each road segment ¡ato "links" based on traffic volume
changes and roadway design. While link-by-link volumes vere available only
for the all-or-nothing assignment, the ETAMSJ manual adjustment factors for
the entire road length can be applied to individual link sections.
28.       Having selected the manually adjusted "no new roads` projections
as the most desírable for economic evaluation, further analysis of each
project was performed by comparing the ETAMSJ 1990 projected volume with
long-term trends from 1967 to 1977, and extending these to 1990. The follow-
ing year-by-year, 24-hour vehicle volume counts were used for this purpose:
(1) Basic Studies Division of DCP counts for the years
1967-72 and 1974-75;
(2) counts made for ETAMSJ for 1973; and
(3) counts made by Public Transport Division of DGTA
in cooperation vith consultants for March 1977.
In general, these counts, except for 1973 ín some instances, appear to be
consistent and to afford a sound basis for projection testing. In most cases
the resulting trend líne is consistent within acceptable limits, índicating
that the 1990 manually adjusted "no new roads" projections may be accepted
as reasonable and realistic. But in some cases further review was necessary.
In particular the projections were checked by examining the Evaluacion del
Censo de 1973 y Proyeccion de la Poblacion por Sexo y Grupos de Edades 1950-
2000, published by the Director-General of the Census (June 1976).



Annex 10
Page 12
29.       In the Uruca and San Sebastian corridors, projected 1990 volumes
were found to be substantially lower than trend projections and growth esti-
mates in population and business activity. Further investigation showed
that in these corridors volumes for the inner segments closer to the cen-
tral city area were significantly smaller than in the next segment or link.
These next segment volumes were plotted and found to be consistent with the
trends projected in 1990.
30.       In the Hatillo corridor there was clearly a divergence between
trend projection on the one hand and the ETAMSJ-adjusted figures and the es-
timates of the planned increase in population on the other. The main fea-
tures of Ratillo are that, although there has occurred a very rapid increase
in population up to the early 1970's (about 9%), the rate of growth is pre-
dicted to slow down substantially to about 3% from 1973 through 2000. In
the central forecast, therefore, a figure of 6% for the growth of traffic
from 1977 to 1990 was thought te be appropriate. Rowever, a further sensi-
tivity test took into account a nearly 9% growth rate in order to explore
the robustness of the conclusions.
31.       Perhaps the most difficult corridor to forecast is that of Tibas.
One would expect that there would be an initial surge in traffic as the Fourth
Highway Project is completed and that this would taper off to a lower, but
still relatively high, rate of growth. Trend extrapolation (which gives a
rate of increase 1977-90 of 3.7%) would hardly show this pattern and, in
fact, historical data largely reflect the constricted conditions of the
existing route number 5. It is clear that the new Siquirres Highway and
Tibas Radial will "pull out" development and generate traffic along its
length. Taking into account the traffic from the Siquirres Highway, it has
been estimated that an 8% growth over the whole period is the best estimate
for evaluation. But in view of the elasticity argument, the value of the
"best" estimate has been put at 6%. In order to test sensitivity, the trend
projection rate of 3.7% has also been employed. Since a very rapid increase
will occur in the early years, the assumption of a smooth trend rate of
growth somewhat underestimates the benefits of the new radial and may give
a conservative twist to the test.
32.       All of the other adjusted ETAMSJ projections, on the "no new roads"
basis, appeared to be consistent with planning projections and not markedly
discredited by trend projections; thus they were adopted in the evaluation
calculations.
33.       The year 1981 is assumed to be the first year of completion of each
of the road projects. Traffic volumes for this year were interpolated by
moving back from the 1990 estimates at the compound rate of traffic growth
for that corridor. The proportionate composition of the vehicle fleet (cars,
trucks, buses) for 1990 was taken to be constant throughout the period of
benefits.



Annex 10
Page 13
C. Highway User Costs
Vehicle Operating Costs
34.       In 1976, MOPT prepared a study of vehicle operating costs (VOC) on
level, tangent roads for five typical classes of vehicles: automobile, pick-
up trucks, bus, truck, and a tractor-trailer combínation. Included in the cal-
culations were the costs - both economic and financial - of tires, oil, and
fuel, maintenance and depreciation. The results were then compared to a simi-
lar study completed at the same time, the Estudio Centro Americano de Trans-
port. After differences in the calculations of tire wear and maintenance were
reconciled, the two sets of figures were virtually the same.
35.       In late 1974, the Louis Berger firm carried out tests in Panama to
find the variation of vehicle operating costs wíth overall travel speed. The
financial costs for Costa Rica - approximately three years after the Panama
costs were developed - are about 20% to 30% higher than the corresponding
Panama costs at comparable speeds, while the economic costs in Costa Rica are
0.74 to 0.78 times the corresponding Panama financial costs. These relation-
ships were used to find cost curves for Costa Rica. And 1.28 was selected as
the appropríate Panama/Costa Rica financial cost adjustment factor; 0.75 was
used for economic costs. The equation of cost on travel time can be rewritten
ín a more convenient form as a speed cost relationship illustrated in Table 1:
Table 1: SPEED-COST EQUATIONS - COSTA RICA
Cost (1) per 1,000 Kilometers
Typical
Vehicle               Economic Cost                             Financial Cost
(= y = colones/1,000 kilometers)
Auto                  425 +  (7,310)/x                           725 + (12,480)/x
Píck-up               509 +  (7,960)/x                           646 + (19,110)/x
Truck               1,426 + (16,630)/x                         1,522 + (17,740)/x
Bus                 1,657 + (19,320)/x                         1,807 + (21,070)/x
Heavy truck         2,408 + (32,650)/x                         2,580 + (34,980)/x
Notes:  x is the overall travel speed in kilometers per hour.
1 colon = 11.63 US cents.



Annex 10
Page 14
36.       The costs apply to a vehicle travelling at a constant speed.
However, the project is in an urban area, with vehicles frequently stopping,
starting and changing speeds. It was necessary, then, to adjust driving
costs from a constant speed condition to the slow-stop-go of driving on the
congested roada of San Jose. As shown in the following table, the influence
of congestion increases dramatically at lower speeds.
Table 2: IDEAL AND CONGESTION COSTS AT SELECTED SPEEDS
Automobile Financial Costs
Speed KPH                                          Speed-Operating Costs
Constant         With Congestion Factor
(Colones per 1,000 kilometers)
10                                     945                      1,973
20                                     819                      1,349
30                                      715                     1,141
40                                     634                      1,037
50                                     575                        975
60                                     539                        933
70                                     525                        903
80                                     533                         881
90                                     564                         864
100                                     617                        850
110                                      692                        839
120                                     790                        829
Source: Louis Berger
Time Costs
37.       The imputation of money values to savings in time raises more issues
than can be resolved in this Annex. One is aware that however persuasive the
argument for counting time as money, there is a marked reluctance to write
in the benefits of time-saving on a dollar-for-dollar basis comparable to the
value of other "real" resources saved. This reluctance stems from (a) the
fact that time saved may not be used for any useful or "productive" purpose;
and (b) the time saved may be only a few minutes (this is typically the case
for the relatively short lengths of trips in San Jose) and may be little
valued by the traveller. It is difficult to ignore, therefore, the view that
money imputations of time-savings are different from money valuations of
resource-savings. Thus, throughout the analysis these two valuations have
been kept separate.
38.       In reviewing the evaluation it ís assumed that a particular project
component is clearly justified if it passes the appropriate tests of justifi-
cation without taking time-savings into account. If, however, it is only by
adding a value for tíme-savings that an investment is justified, then one must
be less certain of its desirability.



Annex 10
Page 15
39.       Based on 1973 census data, and adjusted for inflation, the average
wage rate for the metropolitan area in 1976 was determined to be ¢7.00 per
hour. Bus drivers' wages were computed at 06.00 per hour; truck drivers' at
¢4.90.
40.       Table 3 shows the time value of the driver and passengers for each
of the typical vehicles. (The value of 1.36 occupants per automobile is an
average of all automobile trips in the metropolitan area; school trips, for
example, show higher vehicle occupancy.) In general, passenger time is valued
at 25% of the wage, giving ¢1.75 per hour.
Table 3: TIME VALUE OF VEHICLE OCCUPANTS
(Colones per hour)
Driver            No. of            Value of Passengers'    Vehicle
Wage/Value        Passengers                Time (¢)             Total
Auto        «3.50(A)            0.36                    0.63               ¢4.13
Pick-up     «4.90               0.50                    0.88               ¢5.78
Camion      ¢4.90               0.50                    0.88               «5.78
Bus         «6.00             50.00(B)                 87.50              «93.50
T2-S2       «5.90               0.50                    0.88               «6.78
Notes:    (A)  Auto driver's time at 50% of Study Area Average hourly wage.
(B) Based on traffic survey results (Wilbur Smith & Associates),
April 1977.
41.       These averages have been used for all purposes and have been assumed
constant over the life of the project. This assumption does not reflect the
rise in the real wage per hour of Costa Rican workers which might be expected
over future years. This imparts some downward blas to the evaluation of time
savings.
Time Values at Different Speeds
42.       The following table converts the time values developed into time
costs at different speeds.



Anuex 10
Page 16
Table 4:  TIME VALUES - TYPICAL VEHICLES AT DIFFERENT SPEEDS
Speed
KPH                                            Time Values
Pick-ups
Autos                   Camions          Buses            T2-S2
(Colones per kilometer)
5                 0.83                      1.16          18.70              1.36
10                 0.41                     0.58            9.35             0.68
15                 0.28                     0.39            6.23             0.45
20                 0.21                     0.29            4.68              0.34
25                 0.17                     0.23            3.74             0.27
30                 0.14                     0.19             3.12             0.23
35                 0.12                     0.17            2.67              0.19
40                 0.10                     0.14             2.34             0.17
45                 0.09                     0.13             2.08             0.15
50                 0.08                     0.12             1.87             0.14
55                 0.08                     0.11             1.70             0.12
60                 0.07                     0.10             1.56             0.11
65                 0.06                     0.09             1.44            0.10
70                 0.06                     0.08             1.34            0.10
75                 0.06                     0.08            1.25              0.09
80                 0.05                     0.07             1.17             0.08
85                 0.05                     0.07             1.10             0.08
90                 0.05                     0.06             1.04             0.08
D.  Calculation of Benefits
43.       The ETAMSJ study had estimated existing road capacities for each
radial link by link, based on a "D" service level as described in the U.S.
Highway Capacity Manual. Road capacities in 1990 were derived from the
observation that rehabilitation of an existing two-lane road would increase
capacity by an average of 20% and adding two lanes would approxímately double



Annex 10
Page 17
the two-lane capacity. Ratios of volume over capacity were then calculated
for all alternatives in each corridor for the years 1981 and 1990 and also
for the base case, the unimproved situation, for the same years.
44.       Based on work ín other cities in developíng countries (Kuala
Lumpur and Guatemala City), Wilber Smith & Associates had developed a chart
relating volume of traffic to capacity-of-road (V/C) ratios to average traffic
speeds. Separate curves were calculated for highways with and without limited
access. These gave increases in speeds, on the average, of 10 km/hr due to
limited access. Regardless of the magnitude of the V/C ratio, it was assumed
that speeds of PCU's would not drop below 10 kph. 1/  Thus an average speed
could be found for every V/C ratio.
45.       Of the five vehicle types for which VOC and time costs had been de-
veloped, three were used in the economic evaluation:  autos, buses, and
trucks.  The costs incurred by each of these vehicles were brought together
in one weighted average cost for a passenger car unit (PCU), based on a city-
wide average traffic composition figures of 49% autos, 29.5% trucks, and
21.5% buses. 2/ Weighting costs separately for each corridor, based on that
corridor's estímated traffic composition, would have provided greater accur-
acy. Variations of the composition were calculated as part of the sensiti-
vity testing and ín order to attribute the benefits of the project.
46.       An average congestion factor was then added and, in addition, higher
VOC's were also calculated for a "poor road" case. It was assumed that the
exísting roads would be of poor quality for the 1981-2000 period, while the
improved road would be of good quality and remain so due to the projected
program of expanded maintenance.
1/   This assumption may be interpreted to mean that as congestion becomes
severe there are shifts in journeys in time so that, up to some un-
specified limit, more traffic can be accommodated at less desired times.
2/   These are percentages in PCU's as given in the following example for
buses:
Bus trips x 3.0
(Car trips x 1) + (Truck trips x 1.6) + (Bus trips x 3.0)
In calculating costs, however, it was necessary to derive the actual
number of trips per PCU for each vehicle, calculated as follows:
Bus trips
(Car trips x 1) + (Truck trips x 1.6) + (Bus trips x 3.0)
Total costs for a given speed were then given by the equations (.49 x
car costs) + (.84 x truck costs) + (.072 x bus costs). Buses were
assumed to be travelling only 3/5 of auto and truck speed.



Annex 10
Page 18
47.       Finally, a total time cost for a PCU was calculated, on the same
basis as VOC costs, using the fraction given by the number of trips for
each vehicle type per PCU. At low speeds, the cost of time rises rapidly.
Table 5 presents the final cost calculation, as developed by Wilbur Smith &
Associates.
48.       For a given alternative, benefits were calculated as follows:
(a) V/C ratios for each link were computed for both 1981
and 1990.
(b) VOC and time costs for each link were then determined
from the V/C speed graph and speed-cost chart.
(c) Costs - in colones/km/PCU¡day - for each link were
then aggregated to give a total cost per day for the
specified alternative, in both 1981 and 1990. VOC
and VOC plus time calculations were calculated
separately.
(d) The costs for both years were subtracted from the
higher costs derived for the unimproved base case.
The difference, providing the basic figure of bene-
fits, was then multiplied by 287 to yield the bene-
fits for the entire year. Maintenance costs derived
for that particular alternative were then subtracted.
Benefits for the intervening years, 1982-1989, were
assumed to be in accordance with the compound rate
of growth of benefits between 1981 and 1990. Bene-
fits between 1991 and 2000 were assumed to be con-
stant at the 1990 figure.
(e) In computing capital costs, it was assumed all right-
of-way acquisition would be completed in 1978, with
20% of the construction being completed in the same
year, and 40% in each of the years 1979 and 1980.
(f) Throughout the calculations, the discount rate was
taken as 12%.



Annex 10
Page 19
Table 5:  COSTS FOR TRAFFIC (PCU's) - 1977
Total Cost   Total Cost   Time/km         VOC/km              VOC/km
(PCU/000)    (PCU/OOO)    (PCU/000)   (PCU/000)              (PCU/000)
Surface G    Surface P                  Surface G            Surface P      Surface G
kph  Congestion   Congestion                No Congestion         Congestíon    Congestion
70     906.99      1,062.64        193        429.39               869.64           713.99
930.79     1,081.34         207       425.99                874.34          723.79
60     960.19      1,105.76        225        426.10               880.76           735.19
993.84     1,133.87        245        429.73                888.87          748.84
50   1,030.80      1,170.17        270        436.74                900.17          764.80
1,082.15     1,211.37         299       447.41                912.37          783.15
40   1,146.81      1,269.90        337        461.44                932.90          809.81
1,226.68     1,344.52         385       479.01                959.52          841.68
30   1,334.10      1,446.51        449        500.06                997.51          885.10
1,481.96     1,589.46         539       524.52              1,050.46          942.96
20   1,709.61      1,814.31        673        552.63             1,141.31         1,036.61
2,517.07     2,656.57         895       584.11              1,761.57        1,622.07
10   3,250.79      3,387.86      1,347        619.10             2,040.86        1,903.77
5,004.07     4,879.50       2,694       654.37              2,310.07        2,185.50
NOTE: PCU Traffic Composition
Auto - 49Z
Bus - 21.5%
Truck - 29.5%
E. The Alternatives in San Jose and the Selection of the Project
49.       The original conception of the project, as set out in the terms of
reference which the government contracted with Wilbur Smith in 1976, was
largely to build three new radials - Tibas, Hatillo-Alajuelita, and Desampar-
ados. A preliminary examination of the evidence, however, suggested that
widening or rehabilitation, including removal of bottlenecks, on the existing
highways may well bring in much of the benefits at a small fraction of the
costs. Similarly, when considering the proposed widening, the evaluation
examined also the low-investment alternatives such as removing bottlenecks
and rehabilitation of the existing highway. The options considered in addi-
tion to the "do-nothing" case for each corridor are as follows:



Annex 10
Page 20
Tibas           IA New four-lane highway
IB Rehabílitation of existing route 5
Guadalupe      Rehabilitate existing highway
Widen existing highway to four lanes throughout whole length
San Pedro      Widen existing highway to four lanes throughout whole length
Desamparados   Widen existing highway to four lanes throughout whole length
New (short) road plus widening existing highway
New (long) road plus widening existing highway
San Sebastian Rehabilitate existing road
Widen to four lanes throughout whole length
Hatillo        Rehabilitate existing Alajuelita highway
New (westerly) alternative road plus rehabilitation of Alajuelita
New (easterly) alternative road plus rehabilitation of Alajuelita
Uruca          Rehabilitate existing highway
Widen to four lanes throughout whole length
Avenida 2      Widen 1 kilometer to eliminate a bottleneck
The reasons for the most important choices are reviewed below.
50.       Tibas.  The new four-lane highway has an alignment largely deter-
mined by the Fourth Highway Project road from Siquirres which ends a few
meters north of route 102. Various alternatives were considered and rejected.
First, an examination was made of possible alternative alignments; but the
crossíng of the Virilla River and the corridor at Tournon limit considerably
the choice of alternatives, and it seemed very likely that the planned align-
ment was among the best. The second was to widen the existing route 5 and
put a spur to join the Sequirres Highway. Calculations of the cost of ac-
quiring the right-of-way on route 5 suggested that the land costs alone would
be in the region of 25-30 million colones and that there would be very great
disturbance for a large number of frontagers. The third rejected alternative
was to construct a two-lane highway as the first stage of the expansion to a
four-lane road. The cost savings would have been small (circa 10%), however,
largely because the expensive land would still be required. The only alter-
native which was thought feasible and desirable was to review the intersec-
tions to see whether it was possible to reduce the expenditure on them. This
issue is to be reviewed.
51.       Desamparados.  MOPT engineers and planners agreed that widening
the existing highway was feasible and not expensive. This widening was
desirable whether or not a new highway is built. Two alternative new high-
ways were selected: the short (2.96 km) and the long (5.62 km) - they are
illustrated in Map 12935, and an estimate of the costs (without contingencies)



Annex 10
Page 21
is shown in Table 6 . In fact the authorities, at the instigation of previous
consultants' reports, had originally considered a four-lane highway as appro-
priate.  A review of the evidence, however, suggested that such an alterna-
tive was not worth further consideration. In this corridor the widening of
the existing highway was always considered as a necessary element in the
package, including a new road. Such a combination clearly dominated any
list of investments including a new road without widening the existing high-
way. The test was first to see whether widening was worthwhile, and secondly
to see whether a new road should be buílt by 1980/81 or delayed for some years.
Table 6:
ESTIMATED FINANCIAL COSTS
(millions of 1977 Colones)
Length (km)   Construction   Right-of-Way
New Desamparados (Short)             2.96            9.73            6.23
New Desamparados (Long)              5.62           16.26           13.32
New Hatillo (Westerly)               2.54           31.80            0.58
New Hatillo (Easterly)               3.66           19.22            2.52
52.       Hatíllo-Alajuelita.  The discussíon of Desamparados applies broadly
to the Hatillo-Alajuelita corridor also.  The existing road to Alajuelita,
however, is only to be rehabilitated and not widened. The alternative of
wídening the road was rejected on the grounds that very considerable acquisi-
tion and destruction of buildings would be necessary - involving not merely
a large financial cost (circa 025-50 million), but also causing considerable
movement of families. Nevertheless, the rehabilítation of the existing Ala-
juelita Highway is so obviously right that it has been included as a necessary
element in the packages with new Hatíllo radials. Two new Hatillo radials
were considered - a westerly route and a (forked) easterly route. The wes-
terly route clearly dominated the eastern alternative, but the consultants
(WSA) were instructed not to consider the westerly route since it would be
considered politically unacceptable. However, changes in Costa Rica may
eventually eliminate such objections, so the route was retained in the analysis.
The costs of the new roads are shown in Table 7 . Another possibility of
access in the Hatillo-Alajuelita corridor is the bridge, recently constructed
by the municipality, feeding in Calle Moreno to the west of the new Hatillo
radials. The upgradíng of this access was planned by the government and
taken into the assessment.
The Results
53.       The net present value of the alternatives, when compared with the
do-nothing case, are presented in Table . These NPVs correspond to the
"best" estimate of traffic and are calculated usíng a discount rate in real
terms of 12%. The NPVs are shown using first only operating cost reductions
as benefits, and secondly as operating cost savings and the value of savings
in time.



Annex 10
Table 7
Net Present Value 1/
(millions of 1977 colones)
VEHICLE OPERATING    VEHICLE OPERATING
INVESTMENT                            COSTS ONLY           COSTS PLUS TIME
Tibas                                    78                       192
Guadalupe
Rehabilitation                         18                       26
Widening                               17                        33
San Pedro                               106                       248
Desamparados
Widening                              105                       176
New Short & W.                         89                       172
New Long & W.                          79                      167
San Sebastian
Rehabilitation                        56                        98
Widening                               66                       132
Hatillo
Rehabilitation                         10                       15
New Westerly & R                   -  16                     -   5
New Easterly & R                   -  14                     -   5
Uruca
Rehabilitation                        46                        82
Widening                              95                       191
Av. Segunda                              17                       37
1/   vs. do-nothing alternative using 12% discount rate.



Annex 10
Page 22
54.       A negative NPV implies that is i  better to do nothing.  But posí-
tive NPV means only that that investment is better than doing nothing; atill
it does not follow that it is best and is desirable. The best investment in
each corridor can be obtained by choosing the alternative that maximizes the
NPV. As set out in draft CPN (6/29/77) the maximizing of NPV is the only
appropriate method of selection which is valid under all circumstances.
55.       Using this criterion and applying it both to VOC and VOC + T
figures, one obtains, with one equivocal exception, the elements of the civíl
works in the project. The exception is the widening of Guadalupe. Consider-
ing the benefits measured in terms of VOC alone, one would choose merely to
rehabilitate rather than widen Guadalupe. But the difference between the
two figures is small (about ¢1.7 million) and if one considers VOC + T bene-
fits, then the choice is powerfully reversed with an excess NPV for widening
of about 07 million. Thus the Guadalupe widening has been judged the best of
the three alternatives and has been included in the project.
56.       The difference between the chosen maximum NPV and the second best
NPV is usually large and provides substantial evidence that the best alter-
native has been included in the project. This ís clearly the case for the
rehabilitation and widening. More questions, however, may be levelled at the
new radíals - and particularly at the rejected new Desamparados and Hatillo
highways.
57.       The long Desamparados ís clearly inferior to the short new radial,
so the judgment may be restricted to the latter. On VOC alone the widening
dominates the new radial by some 014 million of NPV, but when time is in-
cluded, the dominance falls to 03.2 million of NPV. Thís evidence suggests
that the new radials should not be built by 1980, and the indications are
that a date in the mid-1980s would be near the appropriate time. However,
no detailed study of the best tíming of new Desamparados capacity has been
carried out. This issue should be analyzed further in 1980 to 1982 when
new data on traffle and development wíll be available. It ís sufficient
for present purposes to widen the existing radial.
58.       For the Hatillo new radials, the issue looks much more clearly
demarcated. All the NPVs for both the easterly and the preferred westerly
routes are negative. Only rehabilitation is called for in the present pro-
gram. However, as in the case of Desamparados, it would be wise to reopen
the question of a new radial, by which time one may presume that the pre-
ferred westerly route may be no longer unacceptable, in 1980-81.
59.       The main issue in the Hatillo corridor was the rate of growth of
traffic. Since the capacity of the Hatillo corridor will only be increased
by a relatively small amount by the project investments (and the improvements
to Calle Morino), the effect of variations in traffic forecasts are consid-
erable. The best forecast used in thís assessment is that of a 6% growth;
and, as argued above, in view of the planners' projections of a 3.1% in-
crease in population from 1973 to 2000, this appears to be on the high side,



Annex 10
Table 8
Traffic Forecasts and NPV
for Tibas and Hatillo-Alejuelita
(NPV in millions of 1977 colones)
VEHICLE OPERATING VEHICLE OPERATING
COMPONENT            TRAFFIC GROWTH          COSTS ONLY       COSTS PLUS TIME
Tibas                     Low (3.7%)              -   6                   44
Best (6.0%)                78                 192
High (8.0%)               113                 260
Hatillo - Alejuelita
Rehabilitation       Low (4.0%)                  6                   10
Best (6.0%)                10                  15
High (8.6%)                25                  39
New Westerly & R    Low (4.0%)               -  20               -  13
Best (6.0%)            -  16                -   9
Hígh (8.6%)                12                  40
New Easterly & R    Low (4.0%)               -  17               -  12
Best (6.0%)            -  14                -   5
High (8.6%)                11                  36



Annex 10
Page 23
if anything. Nevertheless, there was a strong belief among government offi-
cials, probably generated by the very rapid (over 9%) expansion of popula-
tion in Hatillo in the period 1960-72, that a new highway opening in 1980/81
would be justified. Thus is seemed necessary to examine the sensitivity of
the result to increases in the rate of growth of traffic. The indifference
condition, where the two NPVs with VOC + T were equal, comes at about an 8.5%
growth in traffic. In order to reach the indifference condition with only
VOC, the rate of growth of traffic would have to be much higher. Since the
8.5% over the whole period from 1977 to 1990 appears to be most unlikely, the
rejection of the new Hatillo radials is thus confirmed.
60.       The new Tibas radial involves a large fraction of the project spend-
ing and so it is important to check on the robustness of the tests. Again the
most sensitive input is the rate of growth of traffic, which in the best esti-
mates of Table 7 has been written at 6%. If traffic experienced a rate of
growth less than 3.9%, the project would not pass the positive NPV test using
only VOC as benefits - but it would clearly satisfy the condition with the in-
clusion of time savings (í.e., VOC + T). Such low rates of traffic growth are,
excepting calamities, most unlikely for a new road connecting a major arterial.
Thus the probability of the Tibas radial not satisfying the test is very
small.
Economic Rates of Return and Benefit Cost Ratios
61.       The implied economic rates of return (ERR) are shown in Table 9
Strictly, these must be defined as the ERR with respect to a do-nothing alter-
native. They illustrate the rate of return on the investment, gross of the
12% discount rate, compared wíth doing nothing. In the project all the in-
vestment elements have ERRs in excess of 12%. Some are extraordinarily high -
especially for the rehabilitation and widening. This is not surprising; much
of the works involves the elimination of bottlenecks, and so for a small
expenditure large gains are achieved.
62.       It is important to note, however, that the ERR does not enable one
to choose the appropriate elements to include in the project. Indeed, the
ERR is most misleading as a guide to investment choice. If, for example, the
investments were chosen which maximized the ERR, one would elect merely to
rehabilitate Uruca and Guadalupe and not to widen them. Clearly one should
not forgo the substantial net benefits to be reaped through widening by using
false guides such as the maximization of the ERR.
63.       While abjuríng ERRs as guides to decision-making, they may neverthe-
less be used heuristically to examine the consequences of the decision. They
provide an evocative measure similar to those commonly employed in business
practice, and thus reach a wíder audience of understanding than the somewhat
esoteric principle of maximizing the NPV.



Annex 10
Table 9
Internal Rates of Return (x)
and Benefit Cost Ratios (discount rate 12%)
INTERNAL RATE             BENEFIT-COST
OF RETURN (%)                RATIO
COMPONENT                     VOC    VOC + T           VOC      VOC + T
Tibas                            22        31            2.4        4.5
Guadalupe
Rehabilitation                 63        71            7.9       10.8
Widening                       28        39            2.7        4.5
San Pedro                        55        78           11.5       10.4
Desamp arados
Widening                       70        90           18.8       30.7
Short & Widening               36        49            5.7       10.0
Long & Widening                28        39            3.6        6.5
San Sebastian
Rehabilitation               >100     >100            18.4       30.6
Widening                       67        98            9.5       18.0
Hatillo
Rehabilitation                 31        37            3.1        4.2
New Westerly & R                4        16            0.5        1.8
New Easterly & R                3         9            0.4        0.8
Uruca
Rehabilitation                 40        83           17.5      30.7
Widening                       57     >100             6.4       11.9
Avenida Segunda                  21        27            2.3        4.0



Annex 10
Page 24
64.       Much the same is true of the benefit-cost ratios which are produced
in Table 9. Again to be precise each should. be defined as the benefit-cost
ratio when considered with respect to a do-nothing alternative. Choosing the
investment in each corridor that maximizes the benefit-cost ratio will give
the wrong result in a number of cases. Alternatively one could develop the
marginal benefit-cost ratios for investment options in each corridor - and then
the appropriate solution would be to choose the investment which has the
lowest marginal benefit-cost ratio in excess of unity. But since this is
merely a more complicated way of explaining the more straightforward principle
of maximizing NPV, it has not been pursued.
65.       All the investment options in the Desamparados corridor - including
both of the rejected new roads - have a benefit-cost ratio exceeding and con-
siderably over unity. But even a benefit-cost ratio as high as 5.7 (VOC
only) or 10 (VOC + T) does not earn a place in the selected list of projects.
This is rejected because most of the beneifts can be obtained from widening,
and the additional benefits to be reaped by building a new road (the short
option) do not compensate for the additional expense. 1/
Sensitivity Tests
66.       With the high NPVs, ERRs, and B/C ratios emerging for most of the
elements of the project, it appeared that a formal concatenation of sensi-
tivity tests would be otiose. However, for the consideration of the proposed
new radials, instead of sensitivity tests it has been ascertained at what
value of the growth of traffic would the decision (not to build new Hatillo
and Desamparados) be reversed. These have been reviewed above. Variations
in the quantity of benefits will not much affect the marginal relationships
and.the project choice is the same.  Similarly only differentials in the
costs of the options will affect the choice. However, the most important
investment in the project is the new Tibas radial and since that is compared
with a do-nothing alternative, it is important to see that the decision is
robust. In Table 8 the three rates of growth of traffic (3.7%, 6% and 8%)
are used together with a reduction in benefits of 10% and 25%. The results
suggest that, nevertheless, Tibas is a worthwhile project.
67.       One other sensitivity test was carried out for the different (and
perhaps changing) composition of traffic. Buses are counted as three PCU,
and thus an increase of one bus is associated with a reduction of three
passenger cars. Varying the bus/car composition does not much affect the
savings in VOC because, for the range of speeds anticipated in the 1990s,
the VOC of a bus is about 3-1/2 times that of a car. But an increase in
the fraction of buses will affect time savings considerably. However,
none of the possible compositional effects would be sufficient to upset
the choice made above.
1/   It so happens that in the Demaparados (and the Hatillo-Alajuelita)
corridors the appropriate choice is the highest benefit-cost ratio;
but that is an accident.



Annex 10
Page 25
F. Signalization
68.       To provide an indication of the economie viability of the proposed
San Jose traffic signal system, ETAMSJ developed operating and time value
estimates for three alternative control systems. The alternatives were:
the existing traffíe control system, a sophisticated computer system, and a
three-dial system similar to the system recommended for implementation.
69.       Eighteeen time periods were selected as having sufficiently dif-
ferent traffic demand patterns to require unique timing plans. The TRANSYT
program was run for the existing control system and the two alternative
systems for each time period. A 30-intersection sample network was used for
this analysis.
70.       The TRANSYT program utilizes data inputs defining the physical
roadway network and traffic volumes. The program simulates traffic behavior
and calculates vehiele travel distance and network speeds which can then be
related to operating and time cost. Through an iterative process, the
program will compute the traffic signal timing plan which optimizes desig-
nated operating parameters. These criteria include the relative importance
of stops and delay on designated roadway segments. 1/
71.       System results, based on the three-dial compromise timing plans,
were used for the remaining time periods. It was assumed that operation
no worse than that afforded by them would be attainable through various
combinations of the optimum plan parameters.
72.       TablelO shows a comparison between travel speeds for each time
period simulated by the TRANSYT program for both the existing signal con-
trol and the proposed three-dial program. These data are for the 30-
intersection sample network utilized by the TRANSYT program. Increases
for bus speeds ranging from 8% to nearly 30% are found with improvements
of over 20% being typical. Projected improvements in travel speeds for
autos/trucks range between 5% and 16% for all time periods except during
the daylight hours on Sunday. During this particular period, a decrease
in travel speeds of 1% to 6% is projected for autos; however, this is
accompanied by a speed increase of nearly 20% for buses.
73.       This sample of 30 intersections in the central area of San Jose
is, however, not a random sample of the area affected by the signalization
investment. The 30 intersections cover the area where traffic was more
dense than in the rest of the area where the 99 other intersections were
to be signalized. Although no detailed traffic flow figures were available
1/   A detailed description of the TRANSYT program and the methodology
used in the ETAMSJ study can be found in Chapter III and Appendix
A of ETAMSJ, Stage II Final Technical Report.



Annex 10
Page 26
Table 10: OVERALL TRAVEL SPEED COMPARISON
1 = Existing System (Null condition)
2 = New 3-Dial System
Autos/Trucks                        Buses
Program                     Speed (km/h)           %       Speed (km/h)           Z
Number of Time Period          1         2      Change        1         2      Change
Normal Work Day
1                         12.30    13.72   +11.5         8.22    10.62    +29.2
2                         13.46    14.98   +11.2         8.01      9.95    +24.2
3                         10.85    11.96   +10.2         7.80      9.83    +26.0
4                         14.32    16.16   +12.8         8.11    10.29    +26.9
5                         18.35    21.48   +17.0         9.07    10.02    +10.5
Saturday
6                         13.54    15.13   +11.7         8.00      9.86    +23.2
7                         12.64    13.20   + 4.4         7.92      9.56    +20.7
8                         12.53    14.09   +12.4         7.60      8.22    + 8.1
9                         15.45    17.49   +13.2         8.24    10.26    +24.5
Sunday
10                         16.67    15.73   - 5.9         8.39    10.14    +20.8
11                         16.73    16.55   - 1.0         8.49    10.15    +19.5
12                         16.71    16.62   - 0.5         8.48    10.15    +19.7
13                         18.27    17.84   - 2.4         8.82    10.22    +15.9
14                         19.53    22.68   +16.1         8.96    10.35    +15.5
Hol1iday
15                         11.49    12.20   + 6.2         7.83      9.23    +17.9
16                         11.75    12.46   + 6.0         7.85      9.46    +20.5
17                         10.17    10.70   + 5.2         7.70      8.88    +15.3
School Vacation
18                         14.16    14.87   + 5.0         8.09      9.68    +19.6
Note:  Overall travel speed derived from TRANSYT program was based on:
Overall Travel Speed = Total Vehicle Distance Travelled in Network
Total Vehicle Time Spent in Network



Annex 10
Page 27
for 1977 to enable the conditions for the 99 to be replicated, an analysis
of the ETAMSJ figures for 1972 and 1973 showed that the gain in speed of
buses was likely to be in the range of 9% to 10% with cars and trucks gain-
ing about 5%. There is much uncertainty in making such an extrapolation,
but it is believed that these figures are probably underestimates of the
true value. These will tend to underestimate the benefits, so that the
estimate should be looked upon as a lower limit. The average increase in
speed over the whole of the central area where controlled signalization is
to be installed will therefore be about 12% for buses and 6% to 7% for pri-
vate cars and trucks.
74.       Evaluating these improvements involves finding the amount of bus
time and bus kilometers spent in the affected area - again using the same
ETAMSJ data and roughly checked by estimating the bus routes. From these
figures metropolitan area buses would spend on average about 35-40% of their
time in the controlled area. In a continuous system this would mean that
the annual saving in bus-time would be:
12 x 35 x 560 x 400 x 348 = 13,300,000
100    100
where 560 is an estimate of the bus fleet in 1977
0400 per day is the estimated full cost of operating a bus per day
348 is the assumed (by ANA) number of days a year the bus operates.
75.       Although this estimate of the money saving of 03.3 million per annum
is due to the inereased productivity of buses in the central area, it is
based on the possibly invalid assumption that all the bus time set free could
be saved.  While thise seems to be the appropriate assumption for "best
estimate"' purposes, one might assume more conservatively that only part of
this can be adduced as saving; another part will be frittered away in in-
creases in idle time. Supposing that only one half of the savings are gar-
nered in real gains, this would imply a benefit to buses of about ¢1.6 million
per annum, in the year 1977. 1/ And on the assumption of a very low rate of
growth of bus traffic of 1-1/2% per annum, this figure for bus savings alone
would give a rate of return in excess of 15% per annum.
1/   To avoid misunderstanding, it must be noted that the normal method of
evaluating such improvements, by finding the effects of the increased
speed on operating costs for a given kilometrage per bus, is quite
inappropriate. Such a methodology would imply that one of the main
effects of the improvement would be to reduce the amount of time that
the average bus spent in gainful employment on the highway. This is
clearly wrong and can be easily illustrated by reducto ad absurdum
arguments. The assumption adopted in the text is that the bus spends
the same time on the road but travels further and does more work. In-
terpreted in another way, one assesses the depreciation as a reduction
for all kilometers travelled.



Annex 10
Page 28
76.       For the reduction in automobile and truck user costs, including
depreciation due to signalization, the estimate is 01.45 million - thus giv-
ing a total user cost saving of about ¢3.00 millíon for the year 1977. The
time-savings costs were calculated using the assumptions referred to above to
give the results in the following Table.
77.       The signalization investment is clearly justified - indeed it is
a matter of urgency - and there is no need to investigate either sensitivity
tests or alternative investment programs. However, the very large gains to
be obtained from such modest spending does suggest that a wider application
of controlled signals might be explored in any further projects in San Jose.
Table 11:  ANNUAL BENEFITS FROM THE CBD SIGNAL SYSTEM
(1977)
(Mililion
Vehicle operating costs                                                 colones)
Autos and trucks                                                         1.4
Buses                                                                    1.6
Savings of time
Autos and trucks                                                         0.7
Buses                                                                    1.4
Grand total                                                                5.1
Source: Application of TRANSYT program to 129 intersections (see Project
Preparation Report No. 9, dated May 1977 by WSA).



COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Implementation  Schedule
1977                    1978                   1979                    1980
1    2     3    4       1    2      3    4     1    2      3    4       1    2      3    4
PROJECT COMPONENT
RADIAL ROUTES
1. New Tibas Radial                                            -   - __
2. San Pedro Widening _
3. Desemparados Widening                     .                             - .  _ _
4. San Sebastian Widening                             . .
5. Alajuelita Rehabilitation
6. Guadelupe Widening                               .                                   - .
7. Tibas Rehabilitation
8. Uruca Widening                                                        .......
9. Avenida 2 Widening                                              ....  .
TOP ICS
Intersection Improvements
1. Betania - Calle Negrita                                         ....    .
2. Sabana Norte - Calle 42
3. Avenida  11 - Calle 10
4. Calle 23 - Avenidas 1 & 3                                                   ....
5. Clinica Moreno Canas
6. Calle 8 - Avenida 9                                             .... .   .
7. Calle 20 -Avenidas 10 & 12                                                  ...
8. Avenida 9 - Calle 14
9. Calle 16 - Coca Cola Entrance                             .     _
10. Calle 24 - Pacific RR Crossing
11. Calle 10 - Avenida 7                                                         ..
12. R 201 - R 202                                                               ....
13. Calle 14 - Av. 2 - Paseo Colon                            ...
14. R 7 - Sabana Oeste
15. R 7 - Anonos Bridge
16. R 1 - R. Virilla Bridge
Sub Area Improvements
1. East - West Connection
2. Parque Morazan Area
3. Calle 23
4. Avenida 14 (Calles 16 to 18)
5. R214 (R.M. Aguilar Bridge)                                                  .... ....
6. Calle 5 (Avenidas 20 to 22)                                                  ....
7. Paseo Colon (Calles 14 to 42)
Dispersal Schemes
1. Sabana
-   °laza Gonzalez Vicquez
Pedestrian Crossings
Central Area Circulation Plan
EQUIPMENT
1. CBD Signal System                             .........
2. DGTA Equipment
3. DGT Equipment
4. DGV Equipment
5. Bus Inspection Facility                                         ...............
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TRAINING_
KEY
Construction/Execution Periad                  ......... .Estimated available period for
Estimated period for contract                                 final design, Bank review etc
procedures and Bank review
of contract procedures etc
World Bank-17642






COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Organization Chart of The
Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MINISTER
l L O I R     E      C      T     O       RGENERAL DIREC
|   LEGAL DEPARTMENT   l                 l                      l     OF AUDITING
PUBLIC RELATIJNS
VICE MINISTER
TECHNICAL ADVISORY
-                                                                                                                  1
GENERA                  EN DIRECTORAT~~~~0GE N, DEN CTOATECEN.DIRCTORTE'.N 
DIRECTORATE OF     <"'>       GEN DIRCTRA E           3IETOAE   GEORCNRTI.                                                                                                        GEN. DIENRDCRCTORAT
VIATION                   INSTITUTEIT I Of1 iOF OyAON                                                                                                GanL
~~ G~~rector8tes responsible br project mplementation.                                                                             World Eank-~~~~~~~~~~~~~W.,ldBank1764






COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Proposed Organization of Public Transport and
Traffic Engineering Departments in the Direction General of
Automotive Transport - MOPT
PUBLIC TRANSPORT                          MINISTER OF PUBLIC
COMMISSION                                WORKS AND TRANSPORT
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
AUTOMOTIVE TRANSPORT
OTHER
. l.- DEPARTMENTS
r                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF DGTA
PUBLIC TRANSPORT      _                    TRAFFIC ENGINEERING 
DEPARTMENT                                 DE*PAR~ L TMEN
CONCESSIONS AND
P-RMITSSECRETARIAT  1                          TRAFFIC SIGNS
TO COMMISSION       j                          AND MARKINGS
FINANCIAL REPORTS
OPERATING STATISTICS                          TRAFFIC SIGNALS
INSPECTION AND
_  CONTROL OF                            g    CONTROL OF
SERVICE STANDARDS                             GOODS VEHICLES
INSPECTION AND
_ CONTROL OF                                 TRAFFIC PLANNING
VEHICLE STANDARDS
TRAFFIC AND
TRANSPORT POLICY
STUDY UNIT
Worid Bank-17643






T
PACiFtC OCZAN
C
j
-A  7 a.
LA SABANA
J.
H Aj t O
0 S T A Ri CA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
METROPOLITAN AREA
PROJECT.
I.Al1 T 11 ll- -AT11
-0-11T
1.P
AMMELITA
P-1 1     -1.5
DESAMPAgÁbw






COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE U RBAN TR ANSPORT PROJ EC T
,ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS OF TH E METROPOLITAN AR EA
, - r- « ~~~~~~~~SAN JOSE
k.                     ~~~~~~~HEREDIA                                                            ...SANfSlDR
g t"X+w_ \ ,_ __/ SAN JUAN SAN ~~~~~~~VICENT>,    G 0    C   O E C '8EA 
'- \ ~~~LA U RUCA ?ESQUINAS t4  ej    LCRE -/SN.>t
X      >    ~~~LAS PAVAS   (                       iCA LLE  F-                              :_ 
) \--' , \ ~~~~MERCED, _ 
s V REDOND~~~ATlCA           N       --- ----PDO ..................... ,
S AN R AF A EL    E,..NDA   A N TO                  =,    G RANADI LLA-_
t __- X Co-a. ^ HOSPITAL                                                                 pS°-    _-T- CARTAGO
/8   ESCAZU    -L_o  |   '  C ES ! FT>    L   ZAPOTE  t      XID A B,AX T
I   v                         I  ~~~~~~~~~SAN      s  CURRIDABAT  - 
| i 9 f É~~~~~~ S C A Z U                   FE          ALJUEA /S
| | Jo 41/~~~~SA ANTONIOi                                        Fl E e  \4g  j
--- SANJOSEMETROPOLITANARE~.e-ABONARYSNJOS  ,^.o ALAJUELA
pROVINCIAL   BOUNDARIES ......                                    :~0. .  -                                  ......-               -   /*3 
r ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CATO  BOUNARIE                                                                       UANCASE. ..   -
» ---- -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENSUS DSTRC BONARE Th on aeshwontimpdoot..-.;  .,r:
s                                                              Worid Bank and its aff liates~~~~A DE i   (



