gM        7 gUr  uDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2145-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
October 6, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as used in this report )
Currency Unit = Costa Rican colon ¢
¢ 8.6         = US$1.00
¢ 1.0            US$0.116
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CODESA         = Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo/Costa Rican
Development Corporation
CBD            = Central Business District
CTT            = Comision Technical de Transporte/Technical Transport
Commission
DGV            = Direccion General de Vialidad/Directorate of Highways
DGTA           = Direccion General de Transporte Automotor/Directorate
of Automotive Transport
DGP            = Direccion General de Planificacion/Directorate of
Planning
DGT            3 Direccion General de Transito/Directorate of Traffic
DTRP           = Departamento de Transporte Remunerado de Personas/
Department of For-Hire Passenger Transport
MOPT           = Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte/Ministry
of Public Works and Transport
OFIPLAN        = Oficina Nacional de Planificacion/National Office
of Planning
RECOPE         = Refinadora Costarricense de Petroleo, S.A./Costa
Rican Petroleum Refining Co.
TOPICS         = Traffic Operations Programs to Increase Capacity
& Safety
TRANSMESA      = Transportes Metropolitanas de San Jose, S.A.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Republic of Costa Rica
Amount:                    US$16.5 million equivalent
Terms:                     17 years including 4 years grace with interest
at 7.9 percent per annum.
Project Description:       The objective of the proposed project is to
improve travel conditions in San Jose, especially
for users of public transport, primarily through
the upgrading of existing transport infrastructure.
This will be accomplished by the rehabilitation
and widening of selected existing radial roads
leading into the San Jose Central Business
District (CBD); the construction of one new
radial; the improvement of CBD intersections and
selected streets to increase traffic bearing
capacity in conjunction with the radial improve-
ment program; and a new CBD traffic signal system.
Special peak hour bus lanes and other features to
facilitate bus traffic are incorporated into
the design of the project. Equipment will be
provided for road maintenance, traffic manage-
ment and regulation enforcement and bus inspection,
and training and technical assistance will be
provided to improve local capacity to manage
the program, continue improving public transport
and plan for future growth of the city. The
Government might have difficulty in enforcing the
requisite traffic regulations and it will have to
carry out a continuing program of traffic and
public transport planning to achieve full benefit
from the project. Features have been incorporated
into the project to help the Government accomplish
these tasks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign       Total
------- US$ (million) -------
1. Radial Routes                           3.5         8.0         11.5
Right-of-way cost                      6.7          -           6.7
Total Component                     10.2         8.0         18.2
2.  TOPICS                                 0.4         1.0          1.4
Right-of-way cost                      0.5          -           0.5
Total Component                      0.9         1.0          1.9
3.  Equipment and Buildings                0.5         2.4          2.9
Land acquisition cost                  0.1          -           0.1
Total Component                      0.6         2.4          3.0
4.  Technical Assistance                   0.2         0.7          0.9
5.  Training Component                     0.2         0.6          0.8
Total Excluding Contingencies         12.1        12.7         24.8
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies               0.7         1.7          2.4
Price Contingencies                  2.1         2.1          4.2
TOTAL PROJECT                         14.9        16.5         31.4
Financing Plan:                                 Local      Foreign       Total
------- US$ million ---------
Bank                      -         16.5        16.5
Government              14.9          -         14.9
14.9        16.5         31.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1978        1979       1980       1981
------------ US$ million ------------
Annual          0.80        7.73       5.86       2.11
Cumulative      0.80        8.53      14.39      16.50



- iii -
Rate of Return:             The rate of return on the radial component (vehicle
operating costs only) and the Central Business
District traffic signal system which represent
about 79 percent of project cost, is estimated at
37 percent.
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 1702-CR, dated September 23, 1977.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Costa Rica for the equivalent of US$16.5 million for
a San Jose urban transport project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including a grace period of 4 years, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Costa Rica"
(No. 1666-CR) is nearing completion and will be distributed to the Executive
Directors shortly. The principal findings of this report are summarized in
the following paragraphs. Annex I summarizes the main economic and social
indicators.
3.        Costa Rica provides an example among developing countries of how
high per capita income growth may be achieved without an undue concentration
of development benefits in the upper income groups. A high level of invest-
ment and rapid export growth allowed real output to grow at about 6.5 percent
yearly between 1960 and 1975, while family planning and rising educational and
income levels contributed to a sharp decline in the population growth rate from
close to 4.0 percent in 1960 to 2.6 percent in the early 1970's. The fast
growth of output facilitated the absorption of the rapidly growing labor force
and the unemployment rate has remained at about 7 percent during the last
fifteen years. Real output per capita grew at 3.3 percent per year during
1960-75 and per capita GNP in 1976 reached US$1,040 (World Bank Atlas).
4.        Agriculture continues to be an important sector of the economy,
generating about 20% of GDP and accounting for about 36 percent of total
employment. Agricultural output growth exceeded that of all other countries
in Latin America in recent years, especially as a result of the production and
export expansion of bananas and beef. Four products (coffee, bananas, beef
and sugar) made up about two-thirds of merchandise export earnings in 1973-75
while 20 years earlier only two commodities - coffee and bananas - accounted
for 85 percent of exports. Rapid industrial growth was made possible as a
result of the creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM) and the
favorable economic conditions resulting from the growth of agricultural
exports. Industrial exports, largely to the CACM and Panama, have grown from
about 10 percent of all merchandise exports in the early 1960s to about a
third currently.
1/   Substantially identical to Part I of the President's Report dated
April 14, 1977, for the Costa Rica Agricultural Credit and Develop-
ment Project.



- 2 -
5.        The openness of the economy, the continued heavy dependence on
the export of a few agricultural commodities and the government's expansionary
fiscal and monetary policies, which were adopted whenever it was necessary
to offset periods of cyclical downswings, have led to periodic and at times
severe financial difficulties. On the whole, however, the economic policy
makers have, through demand management and production incentives, been able
to overcome these difficulties and to sustain economic growth. Economic
management was made easier by the long term, rapid rate of growth of exports.
The experience of 1974-75 provides a vivid illustration of the policies
followed. In 1974, the rate of economic growth declined to 5.4 percent,
largely reflecting a poor agricultural crop year. At the same time, the
terms of trade deteriorated sharply. Consumption and investment growth,
however, fueled by expansionary monetary policies, far exceeded GDP growth
and the balance-of-payments deficit on current account reached $270 million
or the equivalent of 17 percent of GDP. Inflation, measured by the consumer
price index, rose from 2.5 percent per year during 1960-72 and 15 percent
in 1973 to 30 percent in 1974. The level of net international reserves by
the end of the year was the equivalent of less than three weeks of imports.
6.        The Costa Rican Government, aware of the mounting economic difficul-
ties took several measures during late 1974 and early 1975 to curtail exces-
sive private demand, reduce imports and increase exports. Interest rates were
raised as were consumption and sales taxes, credit restrictions for consumer
durables were introduced, support prices for basic grains were increased
substantially and special credit facilities were granted for basic grains
production. These measures facilitated an improvement in agricultural (mostly
basic grains) output, and in spite of the effect of the world recession on
industrial production and on exports, GDP grew at 3.4 percent in real terms,
in 1975. The current account deficit on the balance of payments was reduced
to about $217 million or 11.3 percent of GDP, inflation slowed down to 17.4
percent, and net international reserves by the end of 1975 increased to the
equivalent of one month of imports.
7.        Real GDP growth during 1976 increased by an estimated 5.5 percent.
The outstanding element in the economic picture was the sharp rise in real-
ized coffee prices (in 1973-75 coffee accounted for one-fourth of total
merchandise exports) which increased from 57.1 cents/lb in 1975 to 107.0
cents/lb in 1976. As a result the current account deficit in the balance
of payments decreased further to the equivalent of 8.9 percent of GDP and
net international reserves increased to the equivalent of almost 2 months
of imports. The annual average rate of inflation decreased to 10.9 percent
in 1976, or to only 4.4 percent when measured from December 1975 to December
1976.
8.        The public sector has long played an important role in Costa Rica's
development process. The Government has given substantial attention in recent
years to improving the country's basic infrastructure such as highways, feeder
roads and the development of the hydroelectric potential of the country.
Substantial emphasis is placed on the opening up of new areas for settlement
and cultivation. At the same time, the Government has provided a wide range



- 3 -
of public services. Mfore than 40 percent of all expenditures of the Central
Government have traditionally been in education, health, nutrition and other
social sectors. Health and nutrition programs have been an important factor
in reducing mortality rates from 9 per thousand in the early 1960s to the
present 6 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth has risen to 69 years. At
the same time, general development, higher educational standards and active
birth control related programs reduced birth rates so that the natural rate of
population increase fell from 3.7 percent in 1960 to 2.6 percent by 1975.
Moreover, by spending almost a third of its budget on education, the Central
Government has been able to improve coverage and quality of primary and
secondary schools, reduce illiteracy to a minimum -- the adult literacy rate
was 89 percent in 1973 -- and provide a good quality university education.
Costa Rica has no standing army and the share of Central Government expendi-
tures devoted to security - about 2 percent - has long been one of the lowest
in the world.
9.        Costa Rica's income distribution is one of the most equitable
in Latin America, and the principal beneficiary of the development process in
the last decade has been the middle class. A new initiative enacted by the
Government in 1975 is the "Family Welfare Program" which is designed to
increase the living standards of the poorest rural families representing about
one fourth of the population. The program includes, among others, rural
health, sanitation, housing and education projects, as well as nutrition
programs for pre-school and school-age children and is financed primarily
through a recently passed payroll tax and an increase in the sales tax rate.
On the whole, the program's impact on the distribution of income and on rural
living levels is significant: currently, roughly 1.5 percent of GDP is being
redistributed to the poorest 20 percent of the population.
10.       The policy of maintaining high levels of public services and invest-
ment has from time to time been accompanied by serious financial difficulties.
The tax system is income inelastic, pricing policies by some state enterprises,
such as the water supply agency, have been inadequate to generate sufficient
revenues and several new autonomous agencies have become increasingly reliant
on the Central Government for finance. Large budget deficits have emerged,
which were then periodically reduced through the introduction of new taxes and
increases in tax rates. Thus, in 1974, when several new taxes were introduced,
the improvement in public sector finances was reflected in a public sector
deficit equivalent to only 1.4' percent of GDP down from close to 5 percent
during 1971-73. Since then, expenditure-growth has outstripped revenue growth
and the public sector deficit during 1975 and 1976 was again equal to about 5
percent of GDP.
11.       Prospects are that the public sector deficit will remain at about
5 percent of GDP during 1977. At the same time, it is presently estimated
that realized coffee prices will average about 210 cents/lb in 1977. In order
to absorb the resulting excess liquidity and control inflation the Government
has initiated a stabilization program, involving increased reserve requirements,
credit restrictions and the issuance of Government bonds designed to provide



- 4 -
the domestic resources necessary to finance the public sector deficit. A
replenishment of international reserves should also result from implementation
of this program.
12.       The exceptionally high coffee prices have aided the balance of
payments in 1977, though a recent spurt in import growth is likely to result
in a current account deficit of about 7 percent of GDP in 1977, as compared to
9 percent in 1976. Over the longer term a substantial effort towards indus-
trialization, through selective import substitution and export diversification
would be necessary if Costa Rica is to continue its high GDP growth rate while
strengthening its balance-of-payments. Some important steps in this direction
have already been taken. Thus, a major effort towards export promotion has
been initiated. Currently exports of non-traditional products to countries
outside the Central American Common Market are promoted through a tax rebate
scheme equivalent to 15 percent of f.o.b. value; marketing outlets are being
established in several countries in the Caribbean; an export and tourism
promotion fund has been created and special interest rates are accorded to
production for export; also, a substantial expansion of hotel facilities is
taking place to promote the tourism industry. The country has good potential
to expand existing and develop new export lines and the experience thus far
has been satisfactory; despite depressed world market conditions, non-
traditional exports grew at 7 percent yearly in real terms between 1974 and
1976.
13.       Assuming that the efforts to diversify and strengthen the export
sector over the longer term are successful, Costa Rica will remain credit-
worthy for the foreign borrowing envisaged by the Government to implement
its development program. The public debt service ratio has fluctuated around
10 percent during the last several years and is projected at 10.2 percent
for 1977. Assuming a gradual decline in coffee prices to more normal levels
by 1980, but a parallel and successful implementation of export promotion
policies, the public debt service ratio is estimated to rise to a still
manageable level of around 15 percent by 1980.
External Assistance
14.       As of December 31, 1976, it is estimated that the Bank Group held
21.2 percent of the US$932.6 million external public debt outstanding--
including undisbursed--repayable in foreign currency. This share is likely
to decrease somewhat by 1980 because of an expected increase in the activity
of other external lenders. The Bank Group share of total public debt service
in 1976 is estimated at 15.8 percent, and it is projected to decline by 1980.
Of the other major lenders to Costa Rica, the IDB holds 13.9 percent of
external public debt outstanding, including undisbursed, CABEI 13.1 percent,
the U.S. Government 9.4 percent, Venezuela 3.9 percent, other bilateral
lenders 6.6 percent and private lenders 30.6 percent.
15.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of the lending by the principal
external agencies, apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture,
transport and health, the IDB on transport, power, agriculture, health and
industry, and CABEI on infrastructure and housing, and they are likely to
continue in these areas in the future. The lending of these agencies during
the past 10 years is summarized as follows:



-5 -
IBRD      AID       IDB      CABEI
--------- (US$ millions) ----------
LendinRg 1966 - June 30, 1976
Transport                         56.1       7.1      23.5     81.5
Power and Telecommunications     107.0       -        68.4     24.8
Education                          6.2       -         8.2      5.6
Health                             -         7.6      26.3      9.5
Urban Development                  -        4.6        -       37.7
Agriculture                       12.0      29.3      18.9      3.7
Industry                           -        5.0       17.8      -
Others                             -        3.0        2.3     16.1
Total                       181.3     56.6      165.4    178.9
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Costa Rica has received to date 20 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totaling $250.6 million net of cancellations. The last operation, a loan
for an agricultural credit project amounting to US$18.0 million, was signed on
June 2, 1977. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of June 30, 1977, and notes on the execution of on-
going projects.
17.       Since other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with
substantial amounts of concessional lending which the Government preferred
to use for its socially oriented investments, the main thrust of the Bank's
past lending has been to help develop basic infrastructure, such as power,
telecommunications and highways. However, the Bank has also supported
efforts to increase and diversify exports through lending for agricultural
credit, and has helped make educational programs more consistent with
manpower objectives through a loan for secondary and vocational education.
18.       In future lending to Costa Rica, we intend to continue to provide
some support for infrastructure such as power and telecommunications, in
view of the continuing need for substantial amounts of external financing
and our long-standing involvement in these sectors which gives us a special
ability to foster institutional development. However, we are planning to
increase Bank lending in other areas, particularly agriculture, rural develop-
ment and industry to provide support for productive investment and assistance
to the rural poor. The recent agricultural credit loan is financing prepara-
tion of a rural development project, and an industrial credit project to
stimulate industrial growth is now being prepared. For the future, we are at
the Government's request exploring the possibility of projects in forestry,
irrigation and tourism, and identification missions in these areas will visit
Costa Rica at the end of 1977 and beginning of 1978. In addition, in order to
help expand exports, particularly those with a high percentage of local value
added, the Bank is considering possible participation in the financing of, and
in helping to mobilize additional external resources for, the large Boruca
hydroelectric project which is designed primarily to supply the power require-
ments of a proposed aluminum complex.



-6-
19.       In our lending activities in Costa Rica, we will continue to coor-
dinate closely with IDB, USAID and CABEI not only with a view to improving the
effectiveness of lending by major external agencies at the national level, but
also to help assure that Government programs are developed in a manner
consistent with Central American priorities.
20.       IFC has made only one investment in Costa Rica ($0.6 million in
1966 to Productos de Concreto, S.A.) which has been fully repaid. At present,
IFC is exploring the possibility of participating in the financing of the pro-
posed aluminum project and a secondary mortgage finance institution.
III. THE SECTOR
Urban Population Distribution
21.       Of the current (1977) population of Costa Rica of about 2,000,000,
just over 40 percent live in places with a population of 5,000 or more which
are classified by Government as urban. Urban population is estimated to be
growing at about 5 percent, of which about half represents migration. The
1973 census showed that the San Jose Metropolitan Agglomeration, which con-
sists of the Metropolitan Area comprising several municipalities surrounding
downtown San Jose (see map) and the towns around this Area, had a population
of 885,000. The Metropolitan Area alone had a population of about 488,000,
and the 1977 population is estimated to be about 600,000. The Agglomeration
includes the towns of Alajuela (96,000), Cartago (65,000), Heredia (36,000),
and numerous other small towns. The next two largest cities were Puntarenas
(33,256) and Limon (31,910) and only nine other cities had more than 10,000
inhabitants.
The San Jose Metropolitan Area
22.       San Jose was founded in 1723 and became the capital of Costa Rica
in 1823. The city is located in the temperate and fertile Meseta Central
and is the country's center for government, industry, commerce, and culture.
The physical structure of the city is determined by a radial road network
that converges on a very active central area. Most of the Metropolitan Area
is suitable for construction and urban development potential is not limited
by physical characteristics. The provision of transport facilities is some-
what constrained by the rivers and creeks that crisscross San Jose,
necessitating bridges and limiting the number of feasible      connections in
the road network.
23.       The San Jose Metropolitan Area has increased its share of total
population in the past 15 years, and in the absence of public policies aimed
at changing this trend by diverting growth to other regions, San Jose will
increase its dominant position relative to the rest of the country. Since the
population of the largely commercial central district of San Jose is not



- 7 -
expected to grow greatly, the population of other municipalities in the Metro-
politan Area, especially those on the southern and western sides of the city -
Desamparados, Hatillo, San Sebastian, Paso Ancho, Escazu - are expected to
double or even triple by 1990.
24.       Economic activities and employment are concentrated in the central
district of San Jose which contains approximately half the jobs in the metro-
politan area leading to heavy demands for transport into the center. The
number of jobs in the metropolitan area is expected to grow at a little over
4.5 percent annually from 146,700 in 1973 to 319,700 in 1990, and the central
district is expected to continue to contain just over half of all the jobs
in the area - more than four and a half times as many as workers who live
there. In fact, not all the workers who live in the central district work
there, so that even more workers will have to travel in from outside. Thus,
the demand for transport between the outlying municipalities and the central
area will increase.
Planning Framework
25.       Urban development is San Jose takes place in an uncontrolled
environment. There is no master plan or policy statement reflecting the
Government's view of what might be considered appropriate or desirable
directions for urban development. Nor are there instruments, such as land
use or zoning regulations, that might be used to control and direct urban
growth. This means that forecasts of San Jose's potential growth patterns,
especially concerning the location of new employment and population, are
necessarily indicative. Therefore, it is important that current investments
in urban infrastructure, including transport, be designed in such a way as
to enable them to perform effectively under alternative future growth
patterns as well as to ensure that they do not compromise future urban devel-
opment options. Meanwhile, a development planning framework for the metro-
politan area must be formulated.
Transport in San Jose
Institutional Structure
26.       The construction and maintenance of all streets and roads in San
Jose is the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT). The local governments for San Jose and the surrounding municipali-
ties in the Metropolitan Area have neither the financial nor technical compe-
tence to undertake this responsibility. The Government is now considering
a plan to create a unified metropolitan area government, and provide it with
adequate sources of revenue so that it can begin to deal effectively with
metropolitan problems. It is not expected, however, that this will be accom-
plished for a number of years because of the political problems involved.
Since the metropolitan agglomeration has 44 percent of the country's popu-
lation including the wealthiest portion of that population, and most of the
industry and commerce, it makes a substantial contribution through the
national tax system to local improvements carried out by MOPT.



Infrastructure
27.       The 800 km road network in the San Jose Metropolitan Area includes
470 km of urban streets and paved highways. The remaining 40 percent of the
network is made up of gravel and dirt roads, mainly in the outlying parts of
the area. Construction and maintenance of the roads is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT). The condition of the
network is very mixed, ranging from recent and good quality pavement to badly
maintained streets with crumbling shoulders and many potholes. In addition,
the effective capacity of the network is limited, in physical terms, by open
gutters and drainage ditches, utility poles in the roadway, and varying
pavement widths and, in operational terms, by illegally parked vehicles,
pedestrians forced to walk in the roadway by a lack of sidewalks, and poor
traffic discipline. Together, these factors mean that the effective capacity
of the existing street network is severely limited.
Vehicle Fleet
28.       About 34,000 motor cars were estimated to be in circulation in the
metropolitan area in 1976 - about 70 percent of the number operating in the
whole of Costa Rica - together with about 500 buses (excluding inter-city
buses) and 1,000 taxis. The total number of motor vehicles in Costa Rica
tripled between 1962 and 1972, but the number of cars grew much faster than
the number of buses. In 1972, the Government imposed a 100 percent ad
valorem duty on cars. In addition, motorists pay annual registration fees and
road taxes, and gasoline costs US$0.95 per gallon of which 40 percent is tax.
Incomes, however, continue to rise and this implies a continued growth in car
ownership. It is estimated that the car fleet in the metropolitan area will
grow to over 80,000 by 1990. The bus fleet is expected to grow much less and,
therefore, will in the future operate as a diminishing percentage of the total
vehicle fleet and compete for road space with a growing number of cars.
Unless steps are taken to set aside part of the road network for the exclusive
use of buses and to provide other appropriate priority measures, there is
likely to be a deterioration in bus service which would affect bus ridership.
Traffic Patterns
29.       Annual traffic counts show that average daily traffic entering the
central area more than doubled between 1967 and 1975. Of the passenger
vehicles, 10 percent were buses and carried 75 percent of the passengers,
8 percent were taxis carrying 2 percent of passengers, 9 percent were motor-
cycles carrying 2 percent of passengers, and 73 percent were cars carrying
21 percent of the passengers. These figures represent a highly inefficient
use of road space and indicate the necessity to take steps to promote the use
of and give priority to high occupancy vehicles.
30.       Enforcement of traffic regulations in San Jose is the responsibility
of the Directorate of traffic in the MOPT. In general, traffic moves
tolerably well; however, it is deteriorating quite rapidly. A comparison
of the latest speed and delay surveys with a limited survey carried out in



-9 -
1967 shows that, in the central area, travel times have more than doubled in
this period0 There is every indication that, with increasing car ownership,
traffic performance in the future will become progressively worse.
Bus Operations
31.       All public transport in San Jose is operated by private entrepreneurs
under Government regulation. About 240 owners operate the bus fleet within
the metropolitan area, and it is estimated that they carry about 500,000
passengers daily. The routes to be travelled, the number of buses to be used,
and the frequencies are set out in the concession granted to each private
operator by the Technical Transport Commission in the MOPT. Unfortunately,
this system does not always respond adequately to growing demand. Concessions
were given to existing operators in 1965 and since then are ordinarily re-
issued as extensions because of the difficulties and delays involved in going
to bid. Thus, the degree of competition for bus lines is small. Given this
situation, it is essential that the regulatory body on a regular basis (a)
review the demand conditions on existing lines and hence the need for capacity
increases, and (b) monitor urban expansion to ensure that services are
provided to newly urbanized areas.
Bus Fares and Subsidies
32.       Fare studies are carried out in the MOPT Tariff Office.    They
establish operating costs from private operator accounts and recommend fares
based on operating costs plus a "fair" return (25 percent of operating costs).
Fares are currently t 0.40 (US$0.05) for regular routes and ¢ 0.50 (US$0.06)
for longer routes or for services that use buses that are two years old or
less.
33.       In 1976, the Tariff Office studied fares in San Jose and reported
that, to continue to cover costs plus the "fair" return, bus fares should be
raised by ¢ 0.10, or 25 percent. Public objections to the announcement of
this fare increase were so intense that the Government was obliged to revoke
the increase. In order to avoid making the bus operators bear this burden,
an ad hoc operating subsidy was initially introduced. More recently, since
the Government set up Transporte Metropolitanas de San Jose, S.A. (TRANSMESA)
in 1977, subsidies have been channelled through it. Using funds generated
from gasoline taxes TRANSMESA buys buses in bulk and on favorable credit terms
and resells them to private bus operators. Given the Government's inability to
raise bus fares in 1977, TRANSMESA was authorized to use petroleum refinery
funds to take over part of the repayments that private operators had to make
on their new TRANSMESA buses. The subsidy was calculated at the proposed
e 0.10 fare increase multiplied by the average monthly passengers carried by
a bus. The subsidy is contractually tied to the fare level and will be
eliminated immediately upon Government action to implement the ¢ 0.10 fare
increase.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Rationale and Objectives
34.       In designing the project, special importance was attached to four
factors. First, given the absence of an accepted urban development strategy
for San Jose and the lack of effective land use controls over the city's
growth, it was important that the proposed urban transport project should
not significantly change San Jose's growth patterns in a manner which would
block future options. Second, preference was given to low-cost traffic
engineering and transport management techniques to increase the effective
capacity of the existing network of roads and streets. Only where sufficient
capacity could not be created through these measures or when special facili-
ties, such as bus lanes, were necessary was consideration given to new road
construction. Third, urban transport improvements were aimed primarily at
enhancing public transport in order to prevent further deterioration in
service, and a resultant shift to inefficient private car use. They include
special facilities to give preferential treatment to buses, and growth in
traffic, therefore, will tend to have a greater negative effect on car than
bus operation. Finally, the proposed project was viewed as the first step in
a continuing program of urban transport monitoring and improvement based on
the above principles. Therefore, the institutional changes that are required
to create the local capacity to carry out such a program constitute an integral
part of the project.
35.       Together, these measures will deal with current traffic problems by
increasing capacity and removing bottlenecks, and create sufficient capacity
to absorb the growth of traffic in the next few years. In addition, they will
increase the performance of public transport significantly. It is expected
that the network that will result from the project will provide adequate bus
facilities and create enough central area and radial capacity to postpone
the need to consider large-scale investments in new roads until the mid-1980's0
The breathing space provided, together with the creation of local traffic
management capacity, will give the Government both the time and the expertise
necessary to develop the policies and measures that will be required in the
future to give greater priority to high occupancy vehicles and to discourage
the inefficient use of the private car. If such measures can be effectively
-implemented, the necessity for new road construction may be considerably
reduced, resulting in substantial savings in urban transport investment.
Project Components
36.       The project will consist of:
1.   The construction, widening and rehabilitation of roads
radiating from the center of San Jose as follows:



- 11 -
(a) construction of the 2.3 km new Tibas radial;
(b)  widening of:
I)   the San Pedro radial over a distance of about 3.0 km
II)   the Desamparados radial over a distance of about 4 km
III)   the San Sebastian radial over a distance of about 2.8 km
IV)   the Guadelupe radial over a distance of about 2.6 km
V)   the Uruca radial over a distance of about 3.8 km
VI)   Avenida 2 radial over a distance of 1 km
(c) rehabilitation of:
I)   the old Tibas radial over a distance of 2.70 km
II)   the Alajeulita radial over a distance of 3.82 km
(d) a Traffic Operations Program to Increase Capacity and
Safety (TOPICS), comprising an integrated traffic light
system for the Central Business District (CBD), improve-
ments of intersections, sub-area traffic flow schemes,
traffic dispersal schemes, pedestrian facilities, and
a central area bus circulation plan;
(e) equipment for road maintenance, signing and marking,
traffic regulation enforcement, and bus inspection;
(f) technical assistance in the form of advisors for project
management, traffic planning, public transport promotion,
traffic regulation enforcement, and road maintenance;
(g) a training program for Ministry of Public Works and
Transport staff concerned with urban transport; and
(h) a land use and urban growth study for the San Jose
Metropolitan Area.
Radial Roads
37.       The new Tibas radial to be constructed will be a four lane divided
road which will provide an extension of the San Jose-Siquirres Highway (Fourth
Highway Project, Loan 1187-CR), now being constructed, southwards into the
San Jose CBD. Although designed at the same time as the Fourth Project,
this extension was not included in it because the amount the Bank could
make available for the project was limited, and was not sufficient to cover
the foreign cost of the highway itself. It was agreed at the time, therefore,
that the Bank would consider financing the extension into San Jose under
the Urban Transport Project.



- 12 -
38.       An important criterion in the selection of the routes for widening
was the magnitude of bus flows, and peak period curbside bus lanes will be
provided along each widened route. The lanes will not incorporate physical
separation in order to allow access to buildings fronting on the street, but
will rely on parking prohibition and enforcement for their success. It has
been agreed that the Government will ban parking on radial route peak hour bus
lanes and undertake enforcement measures to prevent them from being used by
cars (section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). In the case of the roads
to be rehabilitated, bus priority measures are not possible because of the
restricted width of the routes, but it is intended to improve passenger wait-
ing areas and to provide bus-bays to avoid delays to both general traffic
and buses during loading at stops.
Traffic Operations Program to Increase Capacity and Safety (TOPICS)
39.       The TOPICS schemes are largely designed to remove bottlenecks where
the radials enter the central area. Experience with TOPICS schemes in the
USA has shown that intersection through-put can be increased up to 10%, while
speeds increase (and hence delays fall) by up to 25%. These schemes include:
(a) Intersection and Sub-Area Improvements. Sixteen intersections
located either on the fringe of the CBD area or at sites in the
outer areas of the city will be improved through the use of
sign and traffic light systems, widening, etc., with the
principal objective of facilitating the flow of bus traffic.
In addition, similar improvements affecting a wider sub-area
than a single intersection, will be made in seven other
locations.
(b) Dispersal Schemes. As a consequence of the implementation
of the radial route widening and rehabilitation program, it
will be necessary to provide for the dispersal of traffic at
the edges of the central city area, through the use of one-way
systems, traffic channeling and other such measures.
(c) Central Area Circulation Plan. The plan will reorganize the
use of certain streets currently used by general traffic to
provide peak hour bus priority routes and curbside bus lanes
for east-west and north-south bus flows. Parking would be
banned on bus priority routes in peak periods, and the
scheme also provides for "bus only" movements on two streets.
As in the case of radial route bus lanes, it has been agreed
that adequate enforcement measures will be carried out
(section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(d) CBD Traffic Signal System and Pedestrian Facilities. The
proposed traffic signal system for San Jose will provide
coordinated signal control along the primary routes in the
central area of the city. The proposed system will also



- 13 -
incorporate pedestrian crossing features in the central area
of the city, and outside the CBD at 20 important locations
adjacent to schools and commercial area concentrations.
Equipment and Buildings
40.       The Project will include programs of signs and road marking, road
maintenance for San Jose, and improved traffic regulations, and the proposed
loan will finance equipment for these programs.
41.       In addition, in order to improve the operational and safety perfor-
mance of buses, DGTA intends to increase the regularity and stringency of
bus inspection. As part of the project, it is proposed to construct and
equip a bus inspection station that will be capable of inspecting each bus of
the metropolitan fleet once every two months. It has been agreed that the
station will be administered by TRANSMESA and its functions confined to
inspection only (section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
42.       Technical assistance under the project is intended to provide
Government with expert advice on: (a) the immediate tasks of coordinating and
managing project implementation; (b) start-up of traffic planning and public
transport development; (c) organizing the metropolitan road maintenance unit
within the MIinistry's Directorate of Highways (DGV); and (d) a metropolitan
land use study. Six internationally recruited advisers will be financed: one
to the Project Committee (see para. 50 below); two on traffic planning; two on
public transport; and one on road maintenance, for a total of 9-1/2 man-years.
These advisors will be recruited as soon as possible, but no later than
September 30, 1978, except in the case of the advisor to the Project Committee
who will begin work by March 1, 1978 and the road maintenance advisor who
will be recruited by June 30, 1978. Funds are also included to provide 33
man-months of technical assistance for the proposed study of land use and
urban growth in San Jose which will be the first step in the process of
establishing the urban development strategy that is a prerequisite for urban
transport planning in particular, and urban infrastructure planning in general.
Most of the advisory services will be procured from outside Costa Rica. It
has been agreed that the advisors and consultants to be hired and their res-
pective terms of reference will be acceptable to the Bank. (Section 3.02(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Training
43.       To create adequate local capacity to plan and implement urban
transport improvements on an on-going basis, the project includes a training
component to be administered through the MOPT Training Section, which consists
of:



- 14 -
(a) an in-country training program dealing with traffic
engineering, traffic planning, public transport regulation,
and traffic surveillance and enforcement, and seminars in
simple business management techniques for bus operators; and
(b) training abroad for selected MOPT staff in urban transport
planning, management and economics. Also, the project will
finance the development of traffic engineering courses
at the University of Costa Rica.
44.       The content of all the training programs to be financed under the
project will be subject to Bank approval (section 3.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Three internationally recruited instructors will be financed for
the MOPT Training Section to provide 4 1/2 man-years of assistance, and it
has been agreed that they will be approved by the Bank and appointed by
June 30, 1978 (section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
45.       Total project cost is estimated at US$31.4 million of which US$16.5
million is foreign exchange. Project costs are summarized in the table in the
Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report.
46.       Physical contingencies amount to 10 percent for the new Tibas radial,
20 percent for radials to be widened or rehabilitated, and 15 percent for the
TOPICS program and for the bus inspection facility. The 20 percent physical
contingency for radial improvements reflects the difficulties inherent in
estimating costs for this type of component, especially given the problems
of executing the project while maintaining an adequate level of traffic flow
during construction. Price contingencies in 1977-79 amount to 9 percent and
7.5 percent for civil works and equipment, respectively. For 1980 and follow-
ing years, the rates are 8 percent and 7 percent for the respective categories.
For technical assistance and training, costs are based on man-month rates
ranging from US$6,000 to US$7,500 which are considered reasonable for the type
of expertise required under the project, and price contingencies amount to 10
percent.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of $16.5 million would finance 100 percent
of foreign costs, which represent about 52 percent of total costs. Local
costs of about US$14.9 million, of which over $8.0 million (including price
contingencies) are for land acquisition, would be financed by the Government.
Project Implementation
48.       The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) has overall
responsibility for transport policy, programming, and regulation in Costa
Rica, and it will carry out the project with the exception of the land
use and urban growth study which will be supervised by the National
Office of Planning (OFIPLAN).



- 15 -
49.       Three units of the Ministry, called Directorates will participate
in project implementation as follows:
(a) The Directorate of Highways (DGV) will oversee the design,
contracting and contract supervision for the construction,
widening, and rehabilitation of the radials and the TOPICS
schemes. It has received technical assistance in the past to
strengthen its capacity to undertake such tasks and should be
able to carry them out without difficulty. The Bank will
approve all final plans, and in order to ensure that the
most sound and economical design standards are employed,
MOPT will hire a senior consulting engineer acceptable to
the Bank to review final plans before they are submitted for
Bank approval (section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The unit to be created in DGV for street maintenance in the
San Jose metropolitan area will concentrate initially on
streets with high bus volumes including those improved under
the project. In time it will assume responsibility now
handled as part of the DGV's general nationwide maintenance
reponsibility, for maintaining all major roads in the metro-
politan area. It has been agreed that the unit will be
created, and that a work program and staffing pattern for the
unit satisfactory to the Bank will be prepared by September 30,
1978 (section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(b) The Directorate of Automotive Transport (DGTA) will be
responsible for public transport development and traffic
planning and engineering. In order to accomplish this a
Public Transport Department, and a Traffic Engineering
Department will be created and a work program acceptable to
the Bank defined by September 30, 1978 (section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement). In addition to the reorganization,
DGTA needs to expand and strengthen its technical staff. For
the CBD Traffic Signals System, three technicians to carry
out the traffic signal timing surveys and an Installation and
Maintenance Manager are required. It has been agreed that
the three technicians will be hired by January 1, 1978 and
the maintenance manager by March 31, 1978. For the traffic
signs and road marking program, two senior technicians are
required, and it has been agreed that one will be hired by
March 31, 1978, and the other by September 30, 1978. To
support the advisory staff being provided under the project
and to carry out basic policy studies (see paragraph 52), a
Traffic and Transport Policy Studies Unit will be established
and contain at least two well-trained staff members, prefer-
ably one engineer and one economist, together with adequate
support staff. It has been agreed that these staff will be
hired by March 31, 1978. (Sections 3.02(a) and 3.03(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement.)



- 16 -
(c) The Directorate of Traffic (DGT) is the traffic police agency
which will be responsible for traffic enforcement particularly
of bus lane regulations. It is reasonably well staffed and
will be able to carry out its functions effectively with the
better equipment and on-the-job training to be financed under
the project.
50.       In order to ensure coordination among the various entities involved
in the project, the Ministry has created a San Jose Urban Transport Project
Committee. This committee consists of the Directors of the three directorates
referred to above, the Director General of the Planning Directorate (DGP), the
head of the MOPT Training Unit, and other interested parties, and a represent-
ative of TRANSMESA. The Chairman of the Committee is of Vice Minister rank.
The committee will oversee project management which will be the responsibility
of a Costa Rican Project Manager. It has been agreed that the Project Manager
will be hired by December 31, 1977 (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
At Government's request an expatriate adviser to the Committee with broad
experience in urban transport programs will be funded under the technical
assistance component of the project (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
51.       It has been agreed that the Government will undertake a program of
monitoring to provide a basis for: (a) making adjustments to various traffic
control components of the project; (b) designing follow-up programs; (c) eval-
uating the operational performance of the program. The monitoring program,
which should be acceptable to the Bank, will be established by December 31,
1978 (Section 3.06(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Policy Studies
52.       In order to develop future traffic policy proposals to control
the inefficient use of private cars and maintain efficient bus service,
the Government will undertake the following studies:
(a) the MOPT will do an analysis to develop (i) a program for
the expansion of exclusive bus facilities; (ii) a scheme for
giving priority to other high occupancy vehicles (e.g., car
pools) and discouraging the inefficient use of cars; and
(iii) a policy to cover parking supply and rates. It has
been agreed that the results of this study will be reviewed
with the Bank by June 30, 1979, and the Government will, no
later than December 31, 1979, present to the Bank for comment
a statement of the resulting urban transport policies and the
measures that will be taken to put the program into operation
(Section 4.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
(b) In order to increase the efficiency of both bus operations
and bus regulatory procedures, MOPT will undertake studies
of (i) the adequacy of bus services, (ii) the level of
fares, (iii) the structure of fares; (iv) the procedures for
granting concessions, and (v) operating specifications for
buses and a bus inspection program. It has been agreed
that this study will be reviewed with the Bank by June 30,
1979 and the Government will submit the proposed modifications
to its public transport policy and a timetable for their
implementation to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1979
(Section 4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(c) Early in 1978, the Government expects to increase bus fares
and eliminate the public transport subsidy. Following the
fare increase, the Government will initiate a study of the
effects of this policy on the urban poor. In the event that
the subsidy has not been eliminated by June 30, 1978, the
Government will undertake a study of the incidence,
effectiveness, and the potential fiscal burden of continuing
the public transport subsidy. While this study is being
undertaken, existing subsidies will be frozen and no new ones
will be introduced. The subsidy studies will be reviewed
with the Bank by June 30, 1979, and a timetable established
by December 31, 1979 for implementing policy changes that may
be proposed (Section 4.05(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Contracts for the radial route construction, widening, and rehabili-
tation (estimated total value US$11.50 million excluding contingencies and
right-of-way costs), for the supply and installation of the CBD Traffic
Signal System and for the supply of other equipment (estimated total value
US$2.9 million excluding contingencies), will be let on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Since some
of the equipment to be purchased migh.t be obtained from manufacturers in the
Central American Common Market, a regional preference of 15 percent of c.i.f.
landed price or 50 percent of the import duties whichever is lower is provided
for such manufacturers. In order to obtain competitive bids as well as to
facilitate participation by local contractors, radial improvements would
be grouped in such a way that bidders would have the opportunity to bid on
works for one or several radials according to their capacity. Procurement of
equipment for signing and marking, enforcement, road maintenance, and the bus
inspection facility will be on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
54.       Contracts for the construction of the TOPICS schemes will be on
the basis of local competitive bidding. This is justified in view of the
relatively low contract sums involved (US$1.41 million for the total program
comprising some 60 schemes) and the techniques and local knowledge that will



- 18 -
have to be employed to construct small-scale road schemes while maintaining
traffic flow in a busy urban environment. Local bidding procedures have
been reviewed and found to be satisfactory.
55.       Disbursements will be made to cover 70 percent of total cost
(excluding land) of the radial improvements and TOPICS schemes representing
the estimated foreign exchange cost; 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of equipment or 85 percent of the cost of imported but locally procured
equipment; 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance or
75 percent of total cost; and, 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of
training or 70 percent of total cost. Any funds remaining upon completion of
the project would be used to finance additional TOPICS schemes meeting Bank
approval.
Economic Analysis
56.       The physical project components -- civil works, TOPICS, traffic
signals, etc. -- are justified in terms of the benefits that they are expected
to generate directly or indirectly. The other components -- the equipment for
traffic planning and enforcement, highway maintenance, and bus inspection, the
technical assistance, and the training -- are justified because they are
required to ensure effective project implementation, operation, maintenance,
and replicability. No quantitative analysis of benefits has been carried out
for the latter type of component or for the TOPICS (except for the traffic
signal system) because of lack of a detailed data base. The rate of return
on the radial component (vehicle operating costs only) and the traffic signal
system, which represent about 79 percent of project costs, is estimated at
37 percent.
57.       Radials  The benefits resulting from new construction, widening and
rehabilitation on radial routes include the reductions in vehicle operating
costs and travel times that result from the improvements. Although reductions
are also expected in air pollution and accidents, because of the difficulties
inherent in estimating such benefits they have not been included in the
analysis, which therefore represents a conservative estimate of the total
benefits from the project. Benefits were estimated by first forecasting
traffic flows through the year 2000. Travel speeds were estimated on the
basis of traffic flow forecasts and the capacities of the road for the chosen
alternative in each corridor as compared with the unimproved base case, as
well as with other less expensive alternatives (rehabilitation vs. widening)
and where appropriate, more expensive alternatives (new construction on a
different alignment vs widening). Time and vehicle operating costs were
derived from the speed estimates. Benefits were then calculated by determining
the savings in travel times and vehicle operating costs for the different
alternatives.
58.       The chosen alternatives were those with the highest net present
values (NPV's). In most cases, the chosen projects are justified economically
on the basis of vehicle operating cost savings alone. The internal rates of
return based on operating cost savings only range from 21 percent for Avenida



- 19 -
2 to 70 percent for Desemparados and give a weighted average of 35 percent for
all radial work which represents 73 percent of total project cost. Sensi-
tivity analysis indicates that even if benefits have been overestimated by
25 percent all the radial work is still economically justified.
59.       Distribution of Benefits.   Benefits in the form of savings in
private car operating costs and travel time will accrue directly to car
owners. Savings in bus travel times, which accounts for 75 percent of total
time savings resulting from this component, will accrue directly to bus
passengers. This savings was valued at 1/4 of the average hourly wage rate
in San Jose, based on previous Bank study of this matter in other countries.
Savings in bus operating costs will accrue to bus operators; however, fares
in San Jose are set on the basis of operating costs plus a "fair" return
and the bus industry is competitive. Therefore, bus operating cost savings
are likely to be passed on to bus riders through avoiding fare increases
and providing a more frequent, more reliable, and less crowded service.
Of the estimated 300,000 daily travelers on the radials 220,000 are bus
passengers, and 51 percent of total benefits from this component will accrue
to bus operators and passengers. Savings in truck operating costs and drivers
time will accrue to truck operators, and will be reflected in lower overall
production and distribution costs.
60.       CBD Traffic Signal System.   The major benefits from this system are
expected to be smoother traffic flows resulting in reduced operating costs and
travel times and the concommitant reductions in air pollution and accidents.
Since the traffic signal timing will be set to favor buses, the largest
benefits will accrue to public transport. Bus speeds are expected to rise by
11 percent, car speeds by 6 percent or 7 percent. For buses, the benefit
estimate has been obtained by calculating the savings that the reduction in
operating costs would imply for the bus fleet if today's service levels were
to be maintained. In fact, competition on existing lines means that, rather
than reduce the fleet, bus operators are likely to expand services and delay
increases in fares. The benefits give first year. rates of return of 26
percent when only operating costs are considered and 44 percent when time and
savings are included. Since traffic will clearly grow in central San Jose,
the returns over the life of the system will be considerably larger than
this. Fifty-nine percent of the benefits will accrue to bus operators and
passengers.
Risks
61.       The two specific risks that might reduce the project's effective-
ness in meeting its objectives, and the steps that have been taken to minimize
these risks are:
(a) Government Capacity to Take Follow-up Actions. One of the
objectives of the project is to increase Government capacity
to carry out a continued program of traffic and public
transport planning. The program of technical assistance and
training is aimed at creating this basic capacity. Work



- 20 -
programs and studies in these areas will be instituted
together with a series of consultations with the Bank on the
choice of new policy measures and on the appropriate
implementation schedules.
(b) Enforcement of Traffic Regulations. The effectiveness of the
exclusive bus facilities proposed under the project might
well be compromised by inadequate enforcement of traffic
regulations regarding parking and the use of private cars in
bus lanes. The authorities do not have a good record in this
area. Therefore, the project would provide adequate training
and basic equipment to the Traffic Police. In addition, a
bus lane monitoring program will provide early warnings of
problems in this area. Bank project supervision missions
will place emphasis on assisting Government devise adminis-
trative ways of overcoming resistance to change which might
occur. A key element will be public education to explain to
car drivers the purpose of the bus lanes and the necessity
for them to be kept clear. A system of bus lane patrols by
the police will also have to be developed to ensure that
drivers will be discouraged from attempting to drive or park
in a bus line.  Finally, should these measures prove to be
inadequate, consideration will have to be given to the
feasibility of introducing physical, permanent or semi-
permanent separation for bus lanes, such as hemispheres or
"speed bumps."  It is believed that these measures will be
adequate to avoid serious enforcement problems.
V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and
the Bank, the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
COSTA RICA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                -
---------------                         COSTA RICA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       50.7                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      20.7                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE          MEXICO        PANAMA         SPAIN +
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   340.0      580o0*   1040o.0*a          6go.o*      830.0*     1580.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           1.2        1.7       2.0  a            50.4        1.4        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      24.o       34.0      40.0 /a            26.0       19.0        67.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       85.0       93.0      97.0   a           52.0       85.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        47.9       41.8      31.0               43.8       39.8        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          11.6       8.1       5.8               10.2        8.7         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       68.6      62.0       37.6               68.5       41.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      61.3       66.8      69.1               62.4       64.9        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5        2.8       2.1                3.1        2.8         1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                3.7        3.4       2.6                3.4        3.1         1.1
URBAN                                4.2 a      5.2a      5s.o !b            4.8        4.3         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         34.5 Z     36.5      40.6               58.7       47.6        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      48.4       47.4      44.1               46.2       43.7        27.8
15 To 64 YEARS                      48.5      49.3       52.4               50.1       52.3        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.1        3.3       3.5                3.7        3.5         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.1       1.0       0.9                1.0        0.9         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.9       1. .6                        2.0        1.5         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ,.       40.2     185.5               55.5         .
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ,.        ,.      33.7
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         400.0/b       ..     590.0            13000.0      5oo.0/a   11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)        49.0         ..      36.4               45.0       38.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           7.0        .     .  7.3Cj               ..        7.0         1.1  a
INCOME DISTRiBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           33.0         ..      22.8 /d            37.8       22.2/b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           58.6         .       50.6               63.2       49.37w
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            5.7        ..        5.47X              4.2        4.17IY
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.0        ..       14.7 d             10.2       13.87i
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..        .                37.1       45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..         ..        ..                0.3         1.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2600.0    1630.0     140o.o             1480.0     1550.0       740.0 b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1770.0    1690.0         ..             1620.0     1420.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              .      250.0     260.0              960.0      360.0       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)        98.0      11o.o     113.0              110.0      109.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             55.0       63.0      66.0 L             65.0       61.0        81.(
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        30.0       35.0        *-               28.Oj      31.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (,'THOU) AGES 1-4           6.9        4.6       3.0                9.8        7.5         0.g
EDUCAT1IN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      96.o     110.0      111.0 /f           104.0      105.0       131.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    21.0       28.0      32.0               22.0       41.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            11.0       11.0      11.0               12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                    19.0      10.0       12.0 If            24.0       32.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)               84,4/f       ..      89.0               76.0        82.0/c     94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (UiRsAN)              1.3 /b               1.4                2.2         1.8
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER t%)                     41.0/b d             19.0               61.0 1     74.0/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                55.01       .       68.8               59.0       52.0
RURAL DWELLiNGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                  32.01       ..      50.0               28.0        16.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOu POP)        66.0       72.0      74.0              276.0       157.0      214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          14.0      23.0      28.0               24.0        32.0       71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         355.0      594.0     786.0              567.0       585.0     1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               3.1       6.4       5.2                3.2         4.0        5.8
SEE NOTE- S --  -_ - _ E F-_- _--_-_-0-_- -- - -- -E- -E- - I   -O -- - - D  - - ------------------ - - --- ---- O  E--R--   - - - ---- - -- -



ANNEX I
NOTES                                                   Page 2 of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to soy yea:r between 1959 sod 1961, for 1970 between i968 sod 1970 sod for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
ORGN per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974.-76 basis).
**Spain has been selected as so objective country because it has the same cultural tradition, it us also an open economy with strong trade relations
with neighborinig countries and baa a high standard of living. Yet because of a dynamic growth of exports of goods and services, Spain has achieved
so economic dLiversification and stability that would be desirable for Costa Rica.
COSTA RICA     1960     /a   1950-65;     /b  196j;     /j  Open unemployment;      /d   inside only
1970     /a  1963-70.
MOST RNCIMT ESTIMATE:      /a   1976;     A4  1970-73;     /c  Open unemployment;       /d  1971;     /4  1969-71;      If  1972;     /4  Total.
MEXhICO        1970     /a  1964-66;      /b  Inside only.
PANAMA        11970    /a   including residenits working in Canal Zone;        Ab  Income recipients;      /4   10 years sod over;      /d  Inside only.
SPAIN          1970     /a  Ibmployment office estimate;      /b   Regiutered, not all practicinig in the country.
R4, August 22, 1977
DOEFINITIORS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lsed Ares itbos ke2)                                                                      P.psiatise per cursing person - Pepsistbon divded by somber of Practicing
Total  T-Ttai surface ares casprising land area and inland waters.                          ..le and female graduate nurse, 'trained' or     ~ertified' nurse  and
br.-most recess estimate of agricultural area osed temporarily or peras-               ausiliary perso..nnel  ith training or esperience
sently for crops. pauturs..  sachet h bitches gardens or to lie fallow.                 Population per hosnirsl bed - Population divided by numbee of hospital beds
acaliable Is poblic and private ge..er-1 and spacililtsd hospital and
CRP Per capita (US$i) - GMP per capita estimates at correct market prices.                  rehabilitatiss centers, exclodee esraleg hsmes asd establishments for
calculated by same c onveralor me thod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis),               o-atmdisl and preventive care.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 data.                                                               Per capita supply of calsriss (% of requirements) - Conputed fran esergy
equivalent of met food sapplies available in country per capita per day,
Population and vital statistic                                                              avilable supplies crerprise doanestic production, imports less enports , and
Population (mid-vest million)    Au of July first- if not available, average                changes in stock; met supplies enclude asiasal feed, seeds, quantities used
oftoend-ysar esiae,160, 1970 and 1975 data.                                           in food prmcessing and looses in distribution; Cequireasts were estimated
by FAO based con pbysisiogical needs for ..-aI autivity sad health usmaud-
Population dens ity - per noars Ion - Mid-year population per square kilometer              sinag enw iroemeta1 temperture, body weights, ag     am. d .ec dietribsatione of
(100 hectaresi of total area.                                                             pops1at ion,and allowing li7t for waste at household level.
Population density - per square km of agric. land - Conputed as shove for                 Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein consent of per capita
agriculture1 land nnly.                                                                   net supply of food par day; net supply of food is defined as above; reqaire-
mania for all coutries establis,hed byg05DA Econt.l Research Serv-ices
Vita! sLtaistics                                                                             provIde for a minou      - slanc  of 60 grass of totalI protein per day, sand
trude birth rate per tbou-and. ave-rae - Annul live births per thousand of                  20 gras   of animal and poise protein, of ahich 10 grams should be animal
aid-year ppoplation, ten-yea   arithme tic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,              protein; tbeae standards are Imar than thooe of 75 gras      of total prmsein
,.d fiv-year. overge ending is 1975 for mast recent estimate,                             sod 23 grass of animal protein as an avrage for the wmrld, p-mpae.d by FAO
Crude deoth rate ner thousan.d, averag   - Annuael deaths per thousand of mid-year           in the Third World rood lorvey.
yspsl.toio,  te-arrithaetic overages ending in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-                  Per capita Protein supply fron anma sd pulse - Protein supply of food
year overage eding in 1975 for most recent estima te,                                     derived fr-n animals and poise    is gras. per day
Infan srtlrt     rae(/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under nse year of age              Death rate I/thou) Sf00 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand is age group 1-i
per thousand live births.                                                                 years, to children in this age group, suggested as an indicator of
Life axpectancy at birth (yrs) - Average number of years of life raemaining at              malnutrition
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                          Education
Groos reproduction rate - Average masher of lIve daughters a w-a      will bear            Adjuoted enrollmet ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she esperiences present age-specific                  ..entage of priosry school-age population , inclu.des children aged 6-li years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted (or different lengths of primary edocation; for cou.tries witb
for developing countries,                                                                 universal edoctio, enrollment may emceed 100. since sane pupils are below
Population growth rate M%   - total - Canpound annual growth rates of mid-year               or above the offiriol uchool age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adiusted enrollment raio-hnndaynuol - Conpated as above; secondary
Population growth rate (7.) - urban - Conputed like growth rate of total                     education requires at least Osor years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect canparability of               provides general, vocatleno1 or teacher training ins tructions for pupils
data among coun tries,                                                                     of 12 to 17 yearn of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
irban population (7, of total) - Ratio of urban to tvtal population; different             Years of suheo1ing provided (first and second levels) - Ttota   years of
definisioun of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countries,               schooling; at secondary level, vo.caional instruction may be Partially or
Completely ecluded.
ace trutur (pecee) -Children (0-14 yeru) , worbing-age (15-hi years),               Vocational1 enrollment_(7._of uacondary) - Vocationa  institutions include
and reised fb5 yea rs and acer) an percentages of mid-year population.                     technical, industrial or other programs which operate independently or as
1ce dpndny ai           - istia of population under 15 sod 65 and over to those              departments of secodary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (7.) - Icterote adslta (able to read and write) as per-
icosonc depedeccy atio  - ia;l  of popslataun under 15 ond h5 and over to            ceetage of total adult population aged 15 years and meet.
the lsbor force In age group of 15-64 nears.
Family planting - acceptors fca,mulative, thou ) - CumulatIve nuber of -rcptoru            Hoosion
of birth-oo-tr1 dev,ices under auspices of national family planstng program              Per-on  per roan (urban) - Average nunher of persons per room in occapied
since ince.ption                                                                           conventional dwellings In urban areas, dwellings exclude non-permanet
Fanile planning - user     (7. of "-ried waed) - Percentages of nsrrtcd women of              troctures and un ccupied parts-
chsld-bearirg age (15-44 ym..rs) who sue birth-control devices to all married            Occupied dwellings wiehost piped water 1.    - Ocropied convetional dwellings
wone   ii same age granp.                                                                  in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
ins percentage of all occupied d.Inelings
toEol ymen t                                                                               AcestoeetricitY (7,o         i   welns         Conventional dwellings with
ocol1 labor forte (thousand) - cnnclyative persons, including armed                         elecirsity in I1-ing quaters as percent of total dwellings is -rban and
forces and unem ployed but eecluding housewives, students, etc , definitions               rural ares.
Inn vaios   outries are sot conparable.                                                  oRa-I dwellings connected to electricit   l      optda        bv    o   ua
Labor force in agriculture %l gricultural labor farce (is faeming, forestry.                 dwellings only.
hooting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
in-ployed (% of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as per-son     who           Consumption
are able and willing to tabe a Job, out of a job on a given day, r-asined nut            Radlo receivers (per thou pop) - 611 types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking worb for a specified minimum period not esceeding one                to general public per thousand of posu1ation; excludes unlicensed receivrer
week, may not be ranparable between coun tries due to differnt definitions                 In countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g. , employment office sttstc,        aple             data for rece.nt years may not he canparable since wmot countries abolished
survys, canpolsory unmaploy,ent insurance                                                  licensing.
Passen,ger_cr (e to pp           - Pasenger oars canprias  ostor care sea ting
Inctas diatribation - Percentage of private incan       (both so cash and bind)              les    than eight persons, enclsdeu ambulances, hearses and military
received by richest 5%, richest 207,, poorest 207., and pooreut 407. of house-             vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   Ele-tricity (kwblyr per cap) - Annual consn.psion of indastria1,      -er-ia1,
poblic and priva te electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribstion of land owership - Percentages of isod owed by welthiest 107.                   based on production data, without allowance for looses in grids but allow-
and poorest 107 of land ownrs.                                                              ing for imports and exports of electricity.
Rewsprit(1kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
Health and Rutrition                                                                         es timted from domestic prodoction plus met Importa of newsprint.
Population per physlician - Popolation divided by numsber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university levei.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 41 rages
ECONOMIC   IDVELPM2ST DATA
(AMounts in millioni of US. dollars)
Actual             Estimated   Projected
1      A970  173  1975      1976     1977    19            1970-1975      1975-1980      1970    1975    1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Aotxnts in 156? - 19o9 Pricea a. Exchale n-te5         Average Annual Growth Rates      As Percent of 0DY
Gross Domestic Product         855.2   1064.0   1159.4     1222.3  1295.8   1536.9            63             5.8         99.41   106.2   104.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)    5.0    -40.3    - 7*        ql.q   67*0     -6h-                                         o.6     _6.2      .4
Gross Domestic Income           o6     12S.7     1092.0    1170.8  1299.8   1472.2            4.9           6lo00                100.0   100.0
Imports(incl. NFS)             337.6    386.9    385.o      412.2   442.8    535.1            2.7           6.8          39.2     35.3    36.4
Exports   " (imort capacity) 2     0    324.3    2          14      418.9    441.             1.8            8.2          31.7    27.3   _20QO
Resource Gap                    60F .5            87.0       72.2    23.9     93.7                    .7.7                         T.o     6.1
Consumption Expenditures       746.4    843.0     928.0     956.2  1020.5   1230.4            4.4            5.8          86.8    85.o    83.6
Investment   " (incl. stocks) 178.4     243.3    251.0      286.8   303.2    335.5            7.1           6.o          20.7     23.o    22.8
Vomestic Savings                113.8   180.7     164.o      214.6  279.3    241.8            7.6            8.1          13.2    15.o    16.V
National Savings               106.3    156.7     142.6     190.6   246.3    201.5            6.o            7.2          12.4    13.1    13.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                        Annual Data at Current Prices    -                                               As Percent of Total
Imnorts
Capital goods                 78.6    124.3     177.2      199.7   227.0   313.0           17.7           12.1          24.8     25.1    23.0
Intermediate goodc(ecL fuels) 122.8   184.1     333.6      349.3  415.0    670.0           22.1           15.0          38.8     47.3    49.2
Petrole8n, Oil, Lubricants    12.3     31.5      56.1       74.0    86.0   126.0           35.5           17.6           3.9      8.0     9.2
Consumption goods            1030     115.4     138.4      160.1   180.0   2 4.0            6.1           12            32.      19.6    18.6
Total Mer.hLpot ,.)=                  455.3             70                53   .0          I:ETT    l      o.     loo    o
Toa  ec.IMorts (cif)   33R7 jT     3      75.       7U.             I33 MO11                                     100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products (excl.fuels) 169.9   242.1     326.6      366.5   544.0    593.0          14.0           12.7          73.5     66.2    59.3
Manufactured goods             61.3   102.4     166.7      220.0   24.0      07.0          30.0           19.6          26.5     33.8    40.7
Total Merch. Exports (fob)    231.2   344.5  49T         3     .   7980   10.0                            I1 0T                 100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                  Average 96769 * 100
Export Price Index           105.0    112.2    157.2      179.2   231.7    240.9            8.4          12.9            -        -       -
Import Price Index           102.7    129.1    200.1      210.1   226.3Y   280.7           14.3           6.o            -        -       -
Terms of Trade Index         102.2     86.9     78.6       85.3   102.4     85.8           -5.2           0.1            -        -       -
Exports Volume Index         131.1    177.3    187.2      194.7   205.0    247.0            7.4           4.9            -        -       -
VALUE ADDED BY SECTp           Annual Data at 1967-69 Prioes and Exchange Rates    _     Average Annual Growth Ratie      As nercent of Total
Agriculture                  199.2    231.8     242.3      256.9   267.4    299.1           4.0            4-3          23.3      20.9    19.5
Industry and Mining          205.3    269.8     306.1      327.6   352.2   439.5            8.0            7-5          24.0      26.1    28.6
Service                      45o.7    562.4~    611.0      637.8   676.2    798.3           6.3            5.5          52.7     5.7     51.9
MY               U79.l      I2        55.3   I                                           100.0     100.0   100.0
Annual Data at Current Prices     As Percent of GDP
PUBLIC FINANCE                A1t90      1973     1975   r   97      0 1970  1975
(Central Government)
Current Receipts             130.9    180.0     261.9      316.3    13.2     13.7
Current Expenditures          113.7   159.8     246.7      316.2    11.5     12.9
Budgetaryv Savings            ITT     1   5.  2 o  .     l          T 7     -0-7
Other Public Sector           15.7     28.8      47.9       77.0     1.6      2.5
Public Sector Fixed Investment 46.7    78.3     128.3      202.8     4.7     6.7
CENTRAL GOVEIMIENT                                                                     DETAIL ON
TOTAL E5PENDITURE DETAILS              Actual            Preliminary                   PUBLIC SECTOR                    As Percent of Total Preliminary
As % Total Expenditures          1970      1975            1976                      FIXED INVESTMENT                   1970       1975       1276
Education                3U         T        R'                                      SociaI Sectors
Other Social Services            11.3      13.8            13.0                      Agriculture                         1.3        1.1        2.0
Economic Services                15.6      21.3            22.8                      Power                              20.5       20.2       241o
Other                            39.3      32.3            31.2                      Transport and Communications       38.6       45.0       41.6
Total Expenditures              100 0           100 0                                Other                               2.3        0.2        0.7
Total Expenditures                100 0      1000      100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                         Total Labor Force            Value Added per Worker at Factor Cost (Current Pricea)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                   In  housands           of Total         1963-73         In u.S. Dolars   Percent of Average
1_        1973       L963     1973    Grwth Rate         1963      1973      19b3  173
Agriculture                        194.3    213.2      49.2      36.4         0.9           639      s1914       54       62
Industry                           73.9     116.1      18.7      19.8         4.6          1248      2320       106      119
Services                          127.1     25.0       32.1      43.8         7.3           1949     2417       166      124
Total                              395.3    55        fo10.0    100.o   l    oo.0           175       i5 1oo             100



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(In millions of US dollars at current Drices)
Actual            ePreliminary      Projectd
1970    1973    1974     1975    1976        1977   100
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                    280.2   418.7   528.6   596.4     714.5      948.o 1239.0
Z  -ts (incl. NFS)                     346.5   499.6   765.7   770.3     866.o     1002.0  1502.0                                                  Actual       Preliminar
Resour~ice BnTan (X- M)          -. 3              9  -237.1  -173.9 -151.0 -263.0                                DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE          1970    1975 1976
Interest (net)                          -9.8   -16.9   -24.6   -36.2     -38.5      -47.0   -71.0               Public Debt Out. & Disbursed    134.2    419.7     534.4
Direct Investment Income                -3.8   -21.1   -16.4   -19.4     -29.0      -35.0   -57.0
Workers' Remittance                       -       -       -       -         -           -       -                 Interest on Public Debt          7.1     23.4     27.5
Current Transfers (net)                  9.9     7.0     7.6    12.5      14.0       15.0    18.0                 Repayments on Public Debt       20.6    41.0      39.5
Balance on Current_ Account            i71Nx0  Tf7 U   7      -217.0       5!7T                                   Total Public Debt Service       27.7    64.4      67.0
Private Direct Investment               26.4    37.7    46.3    69.o      63.0       65.0    80.0               Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Official Capital Grants                  3.8     5.2     6.4    11.0       2.7         2.0      -                 Public Debt Service              9.9     10.8      9.4
PDS+Direct Invest. Inc.         11.2     14.1      13.4
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                         29.6    71.2    87.1   152.2     156.0      213.0   301.0               Average Terms of Public Debt
-Repayments                           -20.6   -30.5   -33.4   -41.0     -39.6      -6.0    -88.o                 Int. as % Prior Year DO&D        5.7     7.7       6.6
Net Disbursements                        9.0             1.                           5     213.0                 Amort. as % Prior Tear DO&D     16.5     13.5      9.4
Capital Transactions n.e.i.             23.1    46.7   141.2    46.7      87.6       30.0    30.0               IERD Debt Out. & Disbursed        36.1     85.0    104.0
Change in Net Reserves (- - increase)   11.7   -17.9    22.9   -20.9     -64.7     -133.0     50.0               ti as % Public Debt O&D          26.9     20.3      26.4
as % Public Debt Service     14.8     13.4     15.8
LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                   IDA  Debt Out. & Disbursed        4.6      5.2       5.2
as % Public Debt O&D          3.4      1.2       1.0
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                                "   as % Public Debt Service      0.1      0.1      0.1
IBRD                                  15.7     6.2    23.5    41.0      39.0
IDA                                     _       _       _       _         _
IDB                                    2.2      -     14.7    75.6      35.o
Other Multilateral                    10.7     7.4    24.2    38.2      36.6                                                    Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1976
Governments                           20.7     5.5    34.0    24.4      48.6                                  EXTERNAL DEBT         Disbursed Only           Percent
Suppliers                              1.7     8.2    10.3     4.6      11.2                                    World Bank              1014.0                19.5
Financial Institutions                 6.3    46.4    66.6    70.0     104.0                                    IDA                       5.2                  1.0
Bonds                                   -       -       -       -         -                                     IDB                      24.3                  4.5
Public Loans n.e.i.                    0.4      _       _       _        2.9                                    Other Multilateral       56.4                 10.6
Total Public M&LT Loans                     5                           77.  1  2 53. o                         Governments             123.4                 23.1
Suppliers                28.3                  5.3
Financial Institutions  184.3                 34.5
Bonds                      -                    -
Public Debts n.e.i.       8.5                  1.5
Total Public M&LT Debts 7                    100.0
V Exclude loans repayable in local currency.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of July 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million
Credit
Number     Year   Borrower            Purpose               Bank     IDA /1  Undisbursed
Thirteen loans and credits fully disbursed                  85.4     4.5           -
800        1972   ICE                  Power                6.5        -         0.1
801        1972   ICE                  Telecommunications  17.5        -         0.2
827        1972   Banco Central        Agriculture          9.0        -         1.9
915        1973   Costa Rica           Education            6.2        -         5.6
1006       1974   ICE                  Telecommunications  23.5        -         6.3
1126       1975   ICE                  Power               41.0        -        24.0
1187       1976   Costa Rica           Highways            39.0        -        36.4
1410       1977   Costa Rica           Agriculture Credit  18.0        -        18.0
Total                                          246.1      4.5        92.5
of which has been repaid                      33.7     0.3
Total now outstanding                          212.4      4.2
Amount sold                    10.9
of which has been repaid      4.0              6.9       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 205.5      4.2
/1   Excluding exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of December 31, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year           Obligor                 Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1976    Productos de Concreto S.A.     Concrete products      0.6     -       0.6
Total gross commitments                               0.6     -        0.6
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                           0.6     -       0.6
Total now held by IFC,
fully disbursed                                          -           -



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 800 Fourth Power Proiect: US$6.5 Million Loan of February 24, 1972:
Effective Date: June 2, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This project has been completed, except-for delivery of some equip-
ment which is expected to be received by November 1977. Some minor cost over-
runs on the transmission component are being financed under loan 1126-CR.
Loan 801 Third Telecommunication Project: US$17.5 Million Loan of February 24,
1972: Effective Date: June 2, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
After some delays attributable to revisions of the project scope and
late deliveries, the project is now progressing satisfactorily and is expected
to be completed shortly. An estimated 18 percent overrun in total project
costs is expected, mainly due to increases in local cost elements, and this
will be financed by the borrower, ICE.
Loan 827 Second Agricultural Credit Project: US$9.0 Million Loan of June 5,
1972: Effective Date: January 25, 1973; Closing Date: September 30,
1977.
Almost 90 percent of Bank funds have been committed as of August 30,
1977 and the balance has been tentatively earmarked for applications in
process. The closing date is now being extended to provide time for full
disbursement.
Loan 915 Education Project: US$6.2 Million Loan of June 25, 1973: Effective
Date: December 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is about 20 months behind schedule -- partly because of
the delay in Congressional ratification of the Loan Agreement and partly
because of difficulties encountered in the organization and functioning of the
Project Unit. Some improvement has been noted in the operation of the Project
Unit, although close supervision is still required, and a revised and accel-
erated implementation schedule has been developed. There may be some reduct-
ions in project scope, resulting primarily from rapidly increasing construction
costs.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. These should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 1006 Fourth Telecommunications Project: US$23.5 Million Loan of June 14,
1974: Effective Date: November 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
The project is progressing satisfactorily, and no cost overruns or
delays in implementation are envisaged at this time.
Loan 1126 Fifth Power ProJect: US$41.0 Million Loan of June 16, 1975:
Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing Date June 30,_ 1979.
Effectiveness of the loan was delayed by legal and administrative
difficulties, but the project is nov in execution and progress is satisfactory.
Loan 1187 Fourth Highway Project: US$39.0 Million Loan of January 14. 1976:
Effective Date: July 30. 1976; Closing Date: October 31. 1980.
There was a 12 month delay in the award and signing of the construct-
ion contract for the project highway because of appeals on the award filed by
some losing contractors. This has been resolved and construction has begun.
Loan 1410 Agricultural Credit and Development Project: US$18.0 Million Loan
of June 2. 1977: Terminal Date for Effectiveness: October 4, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1983.
The Government is in the process of satisfying the conditions for
effectiveness.



ANNEX III
Page 1
COSTA RICA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation:       Initial preparation began with a UNDP
financed Metropolitan Area Transport
Study completed in December 1975. The
final preparation study financed under
the Bank's Fourth Highway Loan was
initiated in September 1976 and completed
in May 1977. The consultants who carried
out these studies worked together with
the staff of the Ministry of Public Works.
(b) First Presentation to the
Bank                     : The Bank was the executing agency for the
Metropolitan Area Transport Study and
has cooperated in the preparation of the
project since that time.
(c) Appraisal Mission
Departure:                 May 30, 1977
(d)  Negotiations Completed:    September 21, 1977
(e) Loan Effectiveness
Planned:                   December 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation actions
Bank staff will work closely with the Government in the development
of policies on traffic management and public transport.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed to:
(a) create in DGTA by September 30, 1978 'a Public Transport Department,
a Traffic Engineering Department (including a Traffic Planning
Unit), and a Traffic and Transport Policy Studies Unit to carry out,
during the project implementation period, work programs acceptable
to the Bank, including a monitoring program (para. 49);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) provide for adequate enforcement of the exclusive bus
facilties including banning parked or moving cars from
bus priority routes and radial bus lanes in peak periods
(para. 38);
(c) cause the bus inspection facility to be constructed by DGTA
under the project to be operated by TRANSMESA for the sole
purpose of bus inspection (para. 41);
(d) appoint the following: three expatriate training specialists
by June 30, 1978; a project manager by December 31, 1977; an
adviser to the Project Committee by March 1, 1978; a road
maintenance adviser by June 30, 1978; three technicians to
carry out traffic signal training surveys by January 1, 1978;
one signal Installation and Maintenance Manager by March 31,
1978; two senior technicians for the signing and marking
program by March 31, 1978 and September 30, 1978; one eco-
nomist and one engineer for the traffic and transport policy
studies by March 31, 1978; and four and other advisers to the
DGTA including two public transport advisors, two traffic
planning advisors as soon as possible after negotiations, but
no later than September 30, 1978 (paras. 42 and 44);
(e) define by September 30, 1978 a work program and staffing plan
for a Metropolitan Area Road Maintenance Unit, satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 49);
(f) undertake traffic planning studies, in accordance with Terms
of Reference acceptable to the Bank, of methods of extending
further priority to buses and other high occupancy vehicles
and discouraging the inefficient use of cars; review these
studies together with the Bank no later than June 30, 1979;
based on the studies and the review, prepare a statement of
urban transport policies and measures that will be taken to
put these policies into effect, to be submitted to the Bank
for comment by December 31, 1979 (para. 52);
(g) complete the first series of studies on the adequacy of bus
services on major routes, current fare levels, and the fare
structure for joint Government/Bank review by June 30, 1979;
submit proposed modifications to public transport policy and
an implementation timetable to the Bank for comment by
December 31, 1979 (para. 52);



ANNEX III
Page 3
(h)  following the elimination of the bus subsidy, undertake a study
on the effect of this action on the urban poor or, in the event
that subsidies are not eliminated by June 1978, initiate a
study of the effectiveness, incidence, and potential fiscal
burden of the current subsidy policy. Existing subsidies will
be frozen and no new ones introduced during the period of the
study. The studies will be reviewed with the Bank by June 30,
1979, and a timetable established by December 31, 1979 for
implementing appropriate changes that may be proposed (para. 52).






-         ~~~~~PACIFJC  CA
SAN JOSE URBAN TRAN./t       SP    PEDROJE
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUDeSTO                                SES| StiUSlE
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                         ,_T  A   R2X I- C   SANP-"
=4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                         SUBJ SLLRUUUU
a eI                                              2 / - g /RU'-1 {Xl_(/_   C 0 SETROPOLITAN AREA
a \\ _ r *'? o '< \ t\* _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJEa.
UELr . IT.A                                                /       UUUj5IGHAY
ALAJUELITA   5,  >,            oD,Sf  . - ~  .ESN.PARADOS  NC



