Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1937 MLI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                   (Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
                                 Program)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated September 7, 1988
                          CREDIT NUMBER 1937 MLI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 7, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated April 21,
1988, from the Borrower describing the Borrower's strategy in respect of its
Public Enterprise Sector (PE Sector), declaring the Borrower's commitment
to the execution of a program of actions designed to achieve essential
reforms of the Borrower's PE Sector (said strategy and actions hereinafter
called the Program), and requesting assistance from the Associationin the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution;
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association as Administrator of
Special Joint Financing from Japan (the Japanese Grant Administrator) to
provide assistance in the financing of such imports under the Special Joint
Financing Agreement for the African Facility and, by an agreement of even
date hereto by the Borrower and the Japanese Grant Administrator (the
Japanese Grant Agreement), the Japanese Grant Administrator is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an amount of one thousand million Japanese Yen
(Y 1,000,000,000) (the Japanese Grant);
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Japan Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) under the Special Joint Financing Agreement
for the African Facility a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount of four
thousand million Japanese Yen (Y 4,000,000,000) to assist in the financing
Page  2
of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
      (D)   the Borrower has contracted from the Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD) a loan under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the African
Facility (the SFD Loan) in an amount of twenty-two million Saudi Riyals (SR
22,000,000) in support of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the SFD Loan Agreement) dated February 12, 1987 between the
Borrower and SFD;
      (E)   the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide
assistance towards the financing of a Public Enterprise Institutional
Development Project in support of the Program and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the Companion
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to seven million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000) (the Companion IDA Credit); and
      (F)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower
by making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions
      of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
      the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
      Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
      obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Air Mali" means Compagnie Nationale Air Mali, an EPIC;
      (b)   "BDM" means Banque de Developpement du Mali, a SE;
      (c)   "Central Bank" or "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest, the Borrower's Central Bank;
      (d)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (e)   "CMTR" means Compagnie Malienne de Transport Routier, aSE;
      (f)   "COMANAV" means Compagnie Malienne de Navigation, a SE;
      (g)   "COMATEX" means Compagnie Malienne de Textiles, a SE;
Page  3
      (h)   "EDM" means Societe Energie du Mali, a SEM;
      (i)   "EDIM" means Editions Imprimerie du Mali, a SE;
      (j)   "EMAB" means Entreprise Malienne du Bois, a SE;
      (k)   "EMAMA" means Entreprise Malienne de Maintenance, a SEM;
      (l)   "EPIC" means Etablissement Public a Caractere Industielet
Commercial, a Borrower's public entity;
      (m)   "Grand Hotel" means a hotel unit owned by the Borrower and
entrusted with financial and operational autonomy;
      (n)   "ITEMA" means Industrie Textile du Mali, a SEM;
      (o)   "LPM" means Librairie Populaire du Mali, a SE;
      (p)   "OCINAM" means Office Cinematographique National du Mali, a SE;
      (q)   "OERHN" means Office d'Exploitation des Ressources Hydrauliques
du Haut Niger, an EPIC;
      (r)   "PE" means Public Enterprise, namely any enterprise in which the
Borrower has directly or indirectly (through any of its subdivisions or
through other public enterprises) a financial participation equivalent to
20% or more of said enterprise's equity;
      (s)   "PPM" means Pharmacie Populaire du Mali, a SE;
      (t)   "RCFM" means Regie des Chemins de Fer du Mali, an EPIC;
      (u)   "SAT" means Societe Africaine de Transport; a SEM;
      (v)   "SCAER" means Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural,
a SE;
      (w)   "SE" means Societe d'Etat, a company wholly owned by the
Borrower or a company whose capital is jointly owned by the Borrower and by
domestic or foreign public enterprises);
      (x)   "SEBRIMA" means Societe de Briquetterie du Mali, a SE;
      (y)   "SEM" means Societe d'Economie Mixte, a company whose capital
is jointly owned by the Borrower and by domestic or foreign private
enterprises);
      (z)   "SEMA" means Societe d'Equipement du Mali, a SEM;
      (aa)  "SEPAMA" means Societe d'Exploitation des Produits Arachidiers
du Mali, a SEM;
      (bb)  "SEPOM" means Societe des Produits Oleagineaux du Mali,a SEM;
      (cc)  "SHM" means Societe des Hotelleries du Mali, a SE;
      (dd)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical
Papers, Series M. No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
      (ee)  "SMECMA" means Societe Malienne d'Etude et de Construction de Materiel 
Agricole, a SEM;
      (ff)  "SOCAM" means Societe des Conserves Alimentaires du Mali, a SEM;
      (gg)  "SOCIMA" means Societe des Ciments du Mali, a SE;
      (hh)  "SOCOMA" means Societe de Conserves du Mali, a SE;
      (ii)  "SOCORAM" means Societe de Constructions Radio-electriques du
Mali, a SEM;
Page  4
      (jj)  "SOMBEPEC" means Societe Malienne de Betails, de Peaux et de
Cuirs, a SE;
      (kk)  "SOMIEX" means Societe Malienne d'Importation et d'Exportation,
a SE;
      (ll)  "SONATAM" means Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes du
Mali, a SE;
      (mm)  "SONEA" means Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Abattoirs et
Annexes, a SE;
      (nn)  "SONETRA" means Societe Nationale d'Entreprise et des Travaux
Publics, a SE;
      (oo)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (pp)  "TAMALI" means Societe des Tanneries Maliennes, a SE;
      (qq)  "UCEMA" means Usine Ceramique du Mali, a SE.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 29,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall,, for the purposes of the Program, open and
maintain in CFAF a special account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding
the Accrual Date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year,
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
Page  5
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1998, and ending May 1, 2028. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a), above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amount of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the abovementioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) The National Manager (Directeur National) of BCEAO
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower
hereby entrusts BCEAO with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal 
applications under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and
other evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications; 
such withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to 
apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than one million Dollars 
($1,000,000) equivalent.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from  time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
Page  6
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of suchaudit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied uponto
                  support the related withdrawals.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that no actions shall be taken inconsistent with the
Program.
                                ARTICLE IV
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   That a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (b)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Companion Development Credit Agreement.
      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any grant, loan or credit (including the
                        Companion Development Credit Agreement) made to the
                        Borrower in support of the Program shall have been
                        suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
Page  7
                        part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                        providing therefor; or
                  (B)   any such loan or credit shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                        Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds in support of the Program are
                        available to the Borrower from other sources on
                        terms and conditions consistent with the
                        obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of
that paragraph.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all
conditions precedent to the effec-tiveness of the Companion Development
Credit Agreement, the Japanese Grant Agreement, the OECF Loan Agreement and
the SFD Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen (15)
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  8
                  MINIFINANCES                  2559 MINIFINANCE
                  Bamako
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
                  By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                        Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                               of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule,
the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the
Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
sub-groups or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to
the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112            -              Alcoholic beverages
      121            -              Tobacco, unmanufactured tobacco refuse
      122            -              Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                                    containing tobacco substitutes)
      525            -              Radioactive and associated materials
      667            -              Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                    stones, unworked or worked
Page  9
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof,
                                    fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                    irradiated for nuclear reactors
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                    group metals (except watches and watch
                                    cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                    silversmiths' wares (including set
                                    gems)
      971            -              Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                    ores and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 6,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after the date four months before the date
of this Agreement;
      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less
than $10,000 equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military
purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    (a)   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total
amount of such commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
11,800,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (i) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and (ii) that
the actions described in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been
taken.
      (b)   No further such withdrawal or commitment shall be made after
such aggregate shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 20,600,000, unless
the Association shall be satisfied, after a further such exchange of views:
(i) with the further progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program; and (ii) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule
3 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.    If, after such exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress
achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                                Procurement
1.    Contracts for goods to be procured by public entities (such term to
include the Borrower, any of its subdivisions and its PEs) and estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded. through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
Page  10
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a timely
      manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising
      invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to
      apply for prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be
      placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
      Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the following
      forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
                  Forum, Business Edition; or
            (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
                  journal of wide international circulation; or
            (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
                  territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                  potential suppliers of the goods required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative,, bidding documents may require the
      bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
      international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    (a)   Contracts for goods to be procured by public entities estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 each, contracts for goods to
be procured by private entities, and con-tracts for agricultural commodities
and petroleum products commonly traded on the international market shall be
awarded on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of such goods; and
      (b)   for the purposes of subparagraph (a) "public entities" includes
the Borrower, any of its subdivisions and its PEs.
3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids
and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Schedule,
where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, the copies of such contract or the documentation and the
information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall
be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
Page  11
                                SCHEDULE 3
                Conditions for Release of Second and Third
                          Tranches of the Credit
      The following actions shall be taken consistent with the principles
outlined in the Program and in a manner satisfactory to the Association:
Part A:     Actions referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (ii) of Schedule 1 to
            this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Second Tranche).
1.    Reduction of the number of products subject to price controls.
2.    Receipt by the Association of the Borrower's investment budget for
1989 meeting satisfactory criteria and receipt of indication of satisfactory
allocations for the Borrower's 1989 current budget regarding electricity,
water and telephone services.
3.    Substantial progress in carrying out the restructuring of BDM.
4.    Implementation of the necessary measures to ensure the management and
operation of the Borrower's postal checking and savings services in
accordance with sound financial and institu-tional practices and, in
particular, for insuring their continued liquidity.
5.    Submission of a satisfactory action plan for the reform of the
Borrower's financial sector.
6.    (a)   Modification of the charters of, or enactment of new charters
for, and necessary accompanying measures in respect of, COMANAV, OERHN, RCFM
and SONATAM to reflect the principles of improved PE organization and
Borrower oversight set forth in Law 87-51 and accompanying texts.
      (b)   Development of standard guidelines for the preparation of
charters (statuts) of SEs and EPICs reflecting principles of improved
organization and Borrower oversight adopted in Law 87-51 and other relevant
instruments.
7.    Enactment of a law modifying Law 81-10 and other necessary provisions
relating to the regime and remuneration of PE personnel.
8.    Substantial progress in carrying out the Borrower's action plan to:
(i) settle reciprocal debts between the Borrower and PEs and, in particular,
paying out net arrears of the Borrower to PEs; and (ii) cause PEs to settle
their arrears in payments due to third parties.
9.    (a)   Satisfactory progress in carrying out the divestiture of the
Borrower's holdings in COMATEX, EDIM, EMAMA, Grand Hotel, SEPOM, ITEMA, PPM,
SEMA, SEPAMA, SMECMA, SOCAM, SOCIMA, TAMALI and UCEMA in accordance with the
Borrower's program for the purpose.
      (b)   Evaluation by the Borrower of measures previously taken under
said program, including completed restructurings and divestitures, and of the 
financial performance of enterprises included in said program.
10.   Conclusion of satisfactory performance contracts with EDM and the PEs
in charge of postal services and telecommunications, with specific efficiency targets.
11.   Enactment of an improved institutional framework governing the water
and power sectors providing, inter alia, for: (i) involvement of EDM in the
planning of the power sector in the Borrower's territory; (ii) attribution
to EDM of the responsibilities for constructing and operating all power
facilities in the Borrower's territory with the exclusion of regional,
multi-purpose and self-production projects; (iii) integration of OERHM
personnel into EDM; (iv) establishment and maintenance of adequate tariff
structures; and (v) conclusion of a management contract whereby EDM would
operate OERHN power facilities.
12.   Enactment of an improved institutional framework governing the postal
and telecommunications sectors and providing, inter alia, for: (i)
establishment of a national telecommunications office incorporating the
telecommunications sector of OPT with Telecommunication Internationale du
Page  12
Mali; and (ii) establishment of a national post office incorporating mail
and postal financial services.
13.   Progress with implementing necessary measures to carry out
institutional reforms in the postal and telecommunications sectors and the
power and water sectors.
14.   Completion of the liquidation of AIR MALI, SHM, SAT, SCAER, SEBRIMA,
SOCOMA, SOCORAM, SOMBEPEC, and SONEA.
15.   Initiation of a review of necessary reform measures with respect to
wholly state-owned PEs, not covered by the Program.
16.   Progress with implementing the Borrower's program to promote the
reconversion of personnel terminated as a result of the Program's execution.
17.   Adoption of a satisfactory action plan for the Borrower's textile
sector.
18.   Suppression of all provision granting the Borrower any right on SEMs
greater than that of a shareholder.
19.   Satisfactory progress in the restructuring of SOMIEX.
Part B:     Actions referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to
            this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Third Tranche)
1.    Receipt by the Association of the Borrower's investment budget for
1990 meeting satisfactory criteria and receipt of indication of satisfactory
allocations for the Borrower's 1990 current budget regarding electricity,
water and telephone services.
2.    Substantial further progress in carrying out the restructuring of BDM
and the postal checking and savings services.
3.    Progress in carrying out the action plan referred to in Part A.5
above.
4.    Progress in implementing the reforms referred to in Part A.7 above.
5.    Completion of the implementation of the Borrower's action plan
referred to in Part A.8 above.
6.    Satisfactory further progress in carrying out the divestment of the
Borrower's holdings in PEs, under the Borrower's program referred to in Part
A.9 above.
7.    Completion of the liquidation of CMTR, EMAB, OCINAM, LPM and SONETRA.
8.    Implementation of the principles referred to in Part A.6 (b) above
with respect to all SEs and EPICS.
9.    Conclusion of satisfactory performance contracts with COMANAV, RCFM
and SONATAM.
10.   Further progress with implementing the measures referred to in Part
A.13 above including enactment of provisions relating to the water and power
sectors (power and water codes, charters of EDM and OERHN).
11.   Development of an action plan with respect to the PEs referred to in
Part A.15 above.
12.   Evaluation of the Borrower's program referred to in Part A.16 above
for the reconversion of personnel terminated as a result of the Program's
execution.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  13
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods required during the exe-cution of the
Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
one thousand five hundred million CFAF (CFAF 1,500,000,000) to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may
be made as follows:
      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit, furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for
which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or
at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association
when either of the following situations first arises:
            (i)   the Association shall have determined that all further
                  withdrawals can be made by the Borrower directly from the
                  Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
                  Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
                  Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
            (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the
                  amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
                  by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
                  General Conditions with respect to the Program, shall be
                  equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
                  Authorized Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such pro-cedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in
any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
Page  14
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
