Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3376-LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Reform  Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 21 , 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3376-LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 2000, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated November 9, 
1999, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen and reform the Borrower’s health sector 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its 
execution of the Program through a series of Credits over a period of 10 
years, the proceeds of such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for 
implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Development 
Bank (AfDB) financing in an amount equivalent to three million four 
hundred thousand dollars ($3,400,000) (the AfDB Financing) to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB (the AfDB 
Page  2
Agreement);
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the European Union (EU) 
a grant in an amount equivalent to three hundred and sixty thousand 
dollars ($360,000), (the EU Grant) to assist in financing the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EU (the EU Grant Agreement);
(E)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Republic of Ireland 
(Ireland) a grant in an amount equivalent to one million three hundred 
thousand dollars ($1,300,000), (the Ireland Grant) to assist in financing 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and Ireland (the Ireland Grant 
Agreement);
(F)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations 
Children’s Fund (UNICEF) a grant in an amount equivalent to one million 
five hundred and ninety thousand dollars ($1,590,000), (the UNICEF Grant) 
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and UNICEF (the 
UNICEF Grant Agreement);
(G)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the World Health 
Organization (WHO) a grant in an amount equivalent to three million seven 
hundred and thirty thousand dollars ($3,730,000), (the WHO Grant) to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and WHO (the WHO 
Grant Agreement);
(H)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
which Project forms the first phase of the Program, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Activities” means the activities to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary, under Part D of the Project, in the prevention or mitigation 
of the HIV/AIDS epidemic;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means any one of the churches, industries, 
CBOs and other entities or groups participating in the fight to reduce 
HIV transmission and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS which meets the 
Page  3
criteria specified in the Project Implementation Plan and to which or for 
whose benefit a Grant is made or proposed to be made for the Activities;
(c)
“CBOs” means community-based organizations participating in 
the Project; 
(d)
“CHAL” means the Christian Health Association of Lesotho, 
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(e)
“Estates Management Unit” means the Estates Management Unit 
referred to under Part B.4 of the Project;
(f)
“Finance Unit” means the Borrower’s Finance Unit in MOHSW;
(g)
“Financial Manager” means the Financial Manager referred to 
in paragraph 4 (b) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which 
runs from April 1 through March 31 of the year next following;
(i)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Grants” means the grants referred to in Part D of the 
Project; 
(k)
“HPSU” means the Borrower’s Health Planning and Statistics 
Unit in MOHSW;
(l)
“Implementing Agency” means the Implementing Agency referred 
to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)
“Maloti” means the currency of the Borrower;
(o)
“MOHSW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Social 
Welfare;
(p)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations operating under 
the laws of the Borrower;
(q)
“NHTC” means the Borrower’s National Health Training 
College;
(r)
“Operations Manager” means the Operations Manager referred 
to in paragraph 4 (b) (i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(s)
“Procurement Adviser” means the Procurement Adviser referred 
to in paragraph 4 (b) (iii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(t)
“Procurement Unit” means the Procurement Unit in MOHSW 
referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (iii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(u)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
Page  4
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(v)
“Project Accounting Unit” means the Project Accounting Unit 
in MOHSW referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(w)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project 
Implementation Plan referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(x)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with the provision of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(y)
“Project Partners” means entities or other developmental 
organizations and agencies, including donors, participating in, or 
assisting the Borrower with, the carrying out of the Project;
(z)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on July 29, 1999 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on October 7, 1999; 
(aa)
“Project Year” means the 12 month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 
month period following thereafter;
(ab)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(ac)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of  this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
Page  5
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 
2010 and ending December 15, 2039. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on December 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  6
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
health and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account in Maloti in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit an amount equivalent to one 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) into such account to 
finance the Borrower's counterpart contribution to the costs of the 
Project, as determined by the Borrower and the Association;
(c)
promptly thereafter deposit into the Project Account monthly 
in advance, until the completion of the Project, such other amounts as 
the Borrower and the Association shall determine as the Borrower’s 
monthly counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project; and
(d)
use funds deposited in the Project Account exclusively to 
Page  7
finance expenditures under the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
sustainability of the Project, and the next phase of the Program; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  8
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months after the 
Effectiveness Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a  report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
Page  9
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)
Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section: 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or loan made 
to the Borrower (including the 
AfDB Financing, the EU Grant, the Ireland 
Grant, the UNICEF Grant and the WHO Grant) for the financing of the 
Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(c)
Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that (i) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that the 
event specified in paragraph (b) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association 
(i) the Project Implementation Plan and a budget relating thereto; (ii) a 
chart of Project accounts; and (iii) a financial procedures manual for 
the Project, all in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has installed an accounting system in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement (i) the 
Operations Manager; (ii) the Financial Manager; and (iii) the Procurement 
Adviser; and
(d)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and paid into 
the Project Account the Initial Deposit.
Section 6.02 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  10
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Lesotho
Cable address
Telex:
Facsimile 
FINMIN
4330 LO
266 
310157
266 
310622
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile: 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202)4776391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ Lebohang Kenneth Moleko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
Page  11
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works, equipment,
   2,700,000
furniture, vehicles,
materials and other
goods, consultants’
services and training
except for Part D
of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’
100%
services and
training
(b)
Other items
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Materials and other
   1,500,000
goods, consultants’
services, training and
Grants for Part D 
of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’
100%
services, training
and Grants
(b)
Other items
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Refunding of
    300,000
Amount due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
    400,000
TOTAL
  4,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Page  12
Agreement;
(b)
expenditures under Category (2) unless (i) the Borrower has 
employed an agency satisfactory to the Association to assist in the 
carrying out of Part D of the Project; and (ii) with respect to any of 
the Activities, such Activity has been approved by the Association in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Plan and the Grant Agreement, including the eligibility 
criteria and terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation 
Plan and the Grant Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 each; (c) consultants’ services under 
contracts not exceeding in the case of: (i) consulting firms $100,000 
each, and (ii) individual consultants $50,000 each; and (d) $50,000 for 
training; all, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in 
achieving a sustainable increase in access to quality preventive, 
curative and rehabilitative health care services including (a) 
strengthening MOHSW’s capacity to develop, carry out and monitor the 
Program; and (b) expanding the capacity of the public sector to respond 
to HIV/AIDS.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Financial Planning and Management
1.
The strengthening and improvement of MOHSW’s financial management 
and information systems, including (i) the provision of technical 
advisory services for the development and expansion of said systems; (ii) 
the establishment of unified financial management procedures to 
facilitate disbursements of proceeds of the Credit and other donor funds; 
(iii) training of the staff of MOHSW; and (iv) the acquisition for MOHSW 
of supportive information technology.
2.
Development of a comprehensive integrated budget, including the 
production by MOHSW of a medium-term expenditure framework.
Part B:
Planning and Monitoring
1.
Strengthening the planning and monitoring capacity of MOHSW, 
including:
(i)
its capacity to coordinate the annual workplans and 
budgets for the Program, 
and to monitor procurement under 
the Program efficiently; and
(ii)
the installation in MOHSW of sound procurement 
procedures, functions and 
skills and the training of 
staff of MOHSW in such procedures.
Page  13
2.
(i)
Strengthening of HPSU’s capacity to conduct monitoring and 
evaluation functions under 
the Project, including (a) the 
monitoring and evaluation of health sector activities; 
and (b) training of health sector staff in new developments and 
procedures in the 
health sector, supervision and 
computerization.
(ii)
The preparation of a monitoring and evaluation plan which 
will, inter alia, set out 
financial, programmatic and impact 
indicators for the health sector; and the 
production each year by HPSU of a comprehensive report on the status of 
the health 
sector reform program.
3.
The elaboration and definition of the Borrower’s District Health 
Package, including:
(i)
the determination of the services to be included in the said 
package;
(ii)
the development of criteria for prioritizing health sector 
strategies;
(iii)
the determination of the most efficacious means of employing 
limited human and 
financial resources to address the major 
causes of morbidity and mortality in the 
Borrower’s territory; and
(iv)
the development of national standards for delivery of 
essential health services.
4.
The establishment within MOHSW of an Estates Management Unit and 
strengthening of its capacity to (i) develop a long-term facilities plan; 
(ii) design and carry out a maintenance strategy for MOHSW; and (iii) 
carry out facilities planning and maintenance programs.
Part C:
Human Resources Development
1.
Development of a Human Resource Management Information System in 
MOHSW for use in (i) tracking terms of promotions, filling posts, 
preparation of short lists, structuring of benefits, postings, vacancy 
assessments, and study leave; (ii) assisting in the planning of training; 
and (iii) the improvement of staff data and statistics needed for human 
resource planning.
2
(i)
Formulation of a strategic plan for human resource 
development; and 
(ii)
development and carrying out of a program to provide 
incentives for the retention of 
staff working in the health 
sector, including the provision of in-service training, 
staff housing, and other appropriate benefits to the said staff.
Part D:
HIV/AIDS
Support for the Borrower’s National AIDS Control Program, the 
National AIDS Council, and the AIDS Task Force, for:
(i)
the formulation of the Borrower’s National AIDS Strategic 
Plan;
Page  14
(ii)
the carrying out of the Activities aimed at reducing the 
transmission of HIV and 
mitigating the impact of HIV/AIDS 
being undertaken by (A) agencies of the Borrower; 
(B) 
NGOs; and (C) other private sector entities and CBOs;
(iii)
the making of grants to NGOs, churches, industries, the 
private sector and CBOs 
involved in the fight to reduce 
HIV transmission and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS; 
and
(iv)
the production of annual implementation plans for Part D of 
the Project.
Part E:
Partnerships
1.
Coordination of donor support, including (i) the carrying out of 
annual reviews with Project Partners; (ii) refinement of the program plan 
for the second phase of the Borrower’s health sector reform program; and 
(iii) the development of common implementation procedures, systems and 
capacities.
2.
(i)
The analysis and determination of the most efficacious means 
of working out 
arrangements for cooperation between the 
Borrower and CHAL in order to achieve the 
Project’s 
objectives.
(ii)
Support for CHAL including the  rehabilitation of CHAL’s 
facilities.
3.
Facilitating collaboration on health matters between agencies of 
the Borrower and those of the Republic of South Africa.
Part F:
Planning for Second Phase Activities
1.
The carrying out of preparatory and analytical activities for the 
second phase of the Program, including:
(i)
the definition and assessment of strategic options for said 
second phase; and 
(ii)
the provision of training on health reform and sustainable 
financing necessary for 
the carrying out of the said options.
2.
The formulation of proposals for piloting sustainable financing 
strategies for the health sector.
3.
The provision of technical advisory services for (i) architectural 
design of health facilities; (ii) development of procurement plans and 
tender documents for proposed civil works, including staff housing, 
rehabilitation of CHAL hospitals, NHTC and Mohlomi Mental Hospital; and 
(iii) the structural and economic analysis required to determine the 
future role of Queen Elizabeth II Hospital, and plans for construction of 
a replacement referral hospital.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National and International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  16
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods which are not available locally estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services of the UNDP in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works, and for each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured under 
shopping procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, 
the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution 
of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under  
shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and 
the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  17
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits and services estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an amount not to exceed in the 
aggregate $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
Page  18
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of (i) 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
and (ii) individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Project Implementation Plan and a related budget in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. The Project Implementation Plan shall, 
inter alia, set out, with respect to Part D of the Project: (i) the 
eligibility criteria and terms and conditions, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the provision of a Grant to any Beneficiary; and (ii) 
procedures and guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, applicable to 
the carrying out of the said Part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Plan, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Plan, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
performance indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
Page  19
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association and other Project Partners, 
no later than October 30 of each year, an annual health sector report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said Report, the status of performance indicators as 
described in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association and Project Partners, no later 
than November 15 of each year or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. The 
review shall cover, among other things (i) the progress made in meeting 
the objectives of the Project; and (ii) the Borrower’s overall 
performance in the execution of the Project.  Thereafter, the Borrower 
shall take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
3.
The Borrower shall
(a)
no later than November 15, 2002, or such other date as the 
Borrower and the Association shall determine, carry out (jointly with the 
Association and the Project Partners) a midterm review and evaluation of 
progress made towards the achievement of the Project’s objectives, 
including an evaluation of the progress achieved in meeting the targets 
agreed by the Borrower and the Association as necessary for the 
attainment of said Project objectives; and
(b)
no later than June 30, 2003, submit to the Association an 
overall assessment of the results achieved in the execution of the 
Project and of the Borrower’s readiness to move into the second phase of 
the Program.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain within MOHSW in form and 
with functions and resources satisfactory to the Association (i) a 
monitoring and evaluation unit; (ii) a project accounting unit; and (iii) 
a procurement unit;
(b)
maintain within MOHSW the following specialists whose 
qualifications and experience shall at all times be satisfactory to the 
Association (i) an operations manager; (ii) a financial manager; and 
(iii) a procurement specialist/advisor; and
(c)
ensure that budgetary, financial, staffing and procurement 
activities to be undertaken within the MOHSW units referred to in 
paragraph (a) above are carried out in consultation with the relevant 
staff of the Borrower’s concerned ministries.
5. 
For purposes of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
the Implementing Agency under contractual arrangements satisfactory to 
the Association to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the 
Project.
Page  20
6.
The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agency to carry out Part 
D of the Project in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)
The Implementing Agency shall enter into an agreement with 
each Beneficiary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall include the following requirements: 
(i)
the Beneficiary carries out and operates the 
Activities for which the Grant is 
made with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and health sector standards and 
practices; 
(ii)
the Beneficiary maintains adequate records for the 
Activities; 
(iii)
the Beneficiary procures goods, works and  services 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as (A) time of delivery and efficiency and 
reliability 
of the goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts 
therefor; and (B) in 
the case of services, the quality of such services and 
the competence of the parties rendering the said services; 
(iv)
the Beneficiary uses the goods, works and services to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of a Grant exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Activities; 
(v)
the Borrower reserves the right to inspect, by itself 
or jointly with 
representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, any 
goods, works, plants and constructions included in the 
Activities, the 
operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(vi)
the Beneficiary takes out and maintains with 
responsible insurers such 
insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with 
sound business practice; 
(vii)
the insurance referred to in subparagraph (vi) above 
shall, without any 
limitation upon the provisions of 
said subparagraph, cover hazards incident to 
the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be 
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary 
to replace or repair such goods; 
(viii) the Beneficiary provides all such information as the 
Association or the 
Borrower shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and 
to 
the benefits to be derived from the Activities; and 
(ix)
the Borrower suspends or terminates the right of the 
Beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds of the Grant upon 
failure by such Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under the Grant Agreement.
Page  21
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$150,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of one million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the  Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the  Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
Page  22
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to  the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or 
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
Page  23
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b), and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
The Performance Indicators for the Project shall include the 
indicators set out below:
1.
Budgetary allocations forecasts for MOHSW for FYs 2004, 2005, and 
2006 have been made in accordance with health sector priorities indicated 
in the Borrower’s medium-term expenditure framework. 
2.
Financial data of quality acceptable to the Association have been 
produced not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year during 
the Project implementation period. 
3.
Quarterly reports have been produced with respect to monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out under the Project for each preceding 
quarter, not later than 45 days after the end of the said quarter. 
4.
At least 80% of professional positions within MOHSW have not been 
left vacant for more than 3 months during the execution of the Program. 
5.
At least 50% of funds granted to Beneficiaries for the carrying out 
of the activities referred to under Part D of the Project have been 
disbursed by the end of each Project Year.
