Report No. PID6962
Project Name                     Lesotho-Health Sector Reform Project (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Population; Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       LSPE53200
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH & SOCIAL WELFARE
Ministry of Health & Social Welfare,
Box 514, Maseru, Lesotho
Contact Person: Dr. M. Mosotho,
Principal Secretary
Tel: (266) 314404
Fax: (266) 310279
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                July 28, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 28, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 13, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Health status indicators suggest that the Lesotho health care system is
not responding to rising health needs: the infant mortality rate has
remained constant since 1986; malnutrition among children under five and
maternal mortality are on the increase; tuberculosis -- the most common
cause of death among Basotho adults -- has been rising fueled in part by
the increasing the number of HIV/AIDS cases; and immunization coverage has
more recently fallen. An estimated 8.4% of Basotho are living with
HIV/AIDS. With an estimate of annual TB incidence of 407 new cases per
100,000, tuberculosis patients occupy 50% of all hospital beds.The Health
Sector Expenditure Review as well as the Institutional Capacity Assessment
for the proposed Sector Reform Program, cite institutional capacity as the
leading constraint to improving the performance of the health system.
Constraints encompass the quantity, allocation and accountability of
staff, the systems and procedures for decision making, planning, budgeting
and implementing, and the allocation and use of resources. In addition,
the impact of HIV/AIDS is expected to further constrain capacity. The
sector is plagued by poor absorptive capacity, and inefficiencies, yet
inefficiencies are not fully appreciated due to the under utilization of
financial resources.To address these issues the Ministry has described a
program of reforms which aim to "increase access to quality preventive,
curative and rehabilitative health care & management services in a
sustainable manner". Explicit in this aim is the intent to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system through the
strengthening of planning and management functions (1996 Sector Round
Table Consultations: Building Partnership for the Lesotho Health Sector
Reform). Eight areas have been identified as priorities for long-term
policy and institutional reform: health financing, human resources,
district health services; decentralization, health infrastructure,
pharmaceutical management, social welfare, and coordination/collaboration



with development partners and South Africa.The components of the Health
Sector Program include the following: Sector Financing and Financial
Management to improve allocative efficiency, equity, and better ensure
sustainable financing for the sector, and better inform decision makers at
all levels with appropriate financial informationHuman Resource Reforms to
ensure effective and rational utilization and deployment of human
resources within the sectorDevelopment of a District Package of health
services which defines cost-effective protocols and procedures to improve
standards of careDecentralization to improve efficiency and enhance local
accountabilityPharmaceutical Management to improve the efficiency of
procurement and distribution, quality control, availability, and use of
pharmaceuticalsSustainable standards for investment, and maintenance
strategies for public health infrastructureStrengthened social welfare
functions within the MOHSWIncreased Coordination and Collaboration with
the private sector (esp. CHAL) and South AfricaImproved coordination and
use of external resources through a sector-wide approach
2. Objectives
The objective of the Sector Reform Program is a sustainable increase in
access to quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care
services. The objectives of the IDA-financed Project (Phase I of teh
Reform Program), are to (i) strengthen the institutional capacity of the
MOHSW to refine, implement and evaluate the comprehensive Sector Reform
Program, and (ii) expand the capacity of the public sector to respond to
HIV/AIDS.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There are few development agencies active in the health sector in
Lesotho. WHO and UNICEF are present, but do not have large operations.
They are also not financing agencies. The European Union has provided
significant support for health in the past, but currently is only in a
position to provide technical assistance. The Bank's proposed mode of
support (i.e., a sector-wide program supported through an APL), has
fostered a sector-wide perspective, the ownership to sustain progress, and
a demand for the information required to plan, monitor and react
effectively to sectoral needs.
4. Description
I.Reform. The Reform Project components will be jointly supported by the
GOL and its partners.A. Financial Planning and Management: The Project
will support the development and installation of Financial Management and
Information Systems which will support health sector information and
management requirements, integrated budgeting procedures and the
development of a Medium-Term Expenditure Program. B. Planning and
Monitoring: The Project will support capacity building for Program
Implementation and Management; Monitoring and Evaluation systems and
capacity; Health Management & Information Systems, including surveillance
systems; and the development of Annual Reports. It will support the
identification and prioritization of the health interventions which will
comprise the District Health Package, and development of national
standards for delivery of these essential health services. It will also
support the establishment of Physical Planning and Maintenance systems and
capacity (including basic Geographic Information Systems for tracking
health facilities and catchment populations).C. Human Resources
Management: The Project will support the development and implementation of
- 2 -



Human Resource Information System; development, production and agreement
upon a Human Resource Development and Strategic Plan; in-service training;
and incentives for staff, including training and staff housing.D.
Partnerships: The Project will support the analysis, development and
consensus upon the Agreement between Government and the Christian Health
Association of Lesotho (including rehabilitation of CHAL facilities);
reconvening of the Lesotho/South Africa Health Committee; preparation for
and implementation of Annual Joint Reviews, and development with external
financiers of Common Implementation Systems.E. Preparation for Phase II of
Reforms: The Project will also support activities required to prepare
Phase II of the Program. These include further informing strategy
development through meetings, special studies and training; developing
proposals for piloting new sector financing initiatives (revised user fees
and risk pooling options); and producing tender documents for civil works
to be undertaken in Phase II. It will also support the Functional,
Financial and Economic Analyses required to define the future function and
requirements for referral, in particular for Queen Elizabeth II
Hospital.II. HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control: The Project will channel
resources to the Lesotho National AIDS Program in support of the
government's efforts to respond to HIV/AIDS. To expand government
capacity, these resources will support activities to reduce the
transmission of HIV and mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS implemented by (i)
multiple sectors of government and (ii) non-government entities, including
the private sector, NGOs, and CBOs.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               3.52
IBRD
IDA                      6.5
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT
BANK                     3.4
EUROPEAN COMMISSION      0.36
GOVERNMENT OF IRELAND    1.3
U.N. CHILDREN'S FUND     1.59
WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION             3.73
Total Project Cost       20.4
6. Implementation
During Phase I, the ongoing reform of GOL procedures and institutional
structures for financial management and procurement, as well as program
management, monitoring and evaluation, will be supported by external
expertise. The launch will mark a significant increase in the workload of
the Ministry, as a large number of activities are planned to be
implemented within a short time-frame. Within the framework of the
restructured Ministry and consistent with the aims of the Sector Program,
Project Management will be integrated within the structures of the MOHSW.
This constitutes a departure from the past practice of implementing
through Project Implementation Units (PIUs).Under the supervision of the
Financial Controller of the MOHSW, a new Project Accounting Unit (PAU) is
proposed to be established at the Ministry to be responsible for financial
management and reporting arrangements under the reformed FMIS procedures
as well as the interim arrangements. Procurement under the Project will
be managed by the new Procurement Unit to be staffed by a Procurement
-3 -



Advisor and support staff at the outset of the Project.In order to
facilitate and expedite the implementation of the HIV/AIDS Component, an
Implementing Agency will be contracted by the Lesotho National AIDS
Control Program (LNACP) to perform manage, monitoring and evaluate AIDS
activities supported by the Project. The LNACP will be responsible for
management oversight of the Agency, and the contractual relationship will
be evaluated annually. The vehicle for implementation of most of the AIDS
interventions will be NGOs/CBOs.
7. Sustainability
The Project design responds to lessons learned regarding sustainability of
achievements within previous sector operations. Phase I of the Program
aims to strengthen institutional capacity, and ensure that the government
institution charged with assessing health needs and designing
cost-effective and affordable responses has the capacity to do so. The
government's desire to reduce separate donor-supported projects and
develop a single Program Plan and Budget should reduce the fragmentation
of financing provided to the sector, improve technical and allocative
efficiency of public expenditure, and better ensure that investments are
sustainable. The development of common implementation procedures will
ensure that donors have a vested interest in building the institutional
capacity of government to make allocation and disbursement decisions,
implement strategies, and evaluate impact, rather than establishing
individual Project Management and Implementation Units which rely upon
temporary capacity and systems.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Attention to the foundations which will inform, facilitate and support
reform objectives is required to ensure that effective strategies are
designed, that they are assessed and that the capacity exists to carry out
the strategies for reform. The stepwise, phased Program builds upon
experiences in Lesotho's Health Sector and elsewhere in the region. Where
ambitious reform programs have been defined underlying weaknesses in
manpower policies, planning expertise and procedures and monitoring
systems have been revealed. Although many countries in the region have
defined a goal of coordinating all sources of public sector financing
around a single budget, success to date has been limited as existing
financial information does not readily support such aims. Although human
resource constraints in the public health service cannot generally be
fully resolved outside of broader civil service reform, there are
improvements which the sector can undertake in the interim to ensure
motivated and competent staff, who are critical to the success of reform
strategies.The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Population Health and Nutrition Project (which closed in March, 1998)
identifies the component on institutional development as the least
successful. The main lessons for future operations cited within the ICR
emphasize (i) the need for ensuring sufficient ownership and commitment to
the program; (ii) sufficiently appraising institutional capacity and
tailoring the project to borrower's capacity; (iii) focusing on
institutional strengthening to ensure sustainability of objectives; (iv)
the importance of sufficient supervision; (v) the need to include a
broader range of expertise in Task Teams; and (vi) the importance of
monitoring systems for assessing project impact.The proposed program for
IDA support responds to these lessons. The selection of an APL and a
phased approach is intended to facilitate ownership and commitment, and
- 4 -



the ESW, which supported the development of the booklet on reforms, has
aimed to ensure widespread ownership outside of the central Ministry. An
Institutional Capacity Assessment has been undertaken, and has helped to
inform revisions in the Project Implementation Plan. The program focuses
throughout all phases on institutional strengthening, but in particular in
Phase I, addresses requisite capacity to plan, implement and monitor. The
Bank Team Task involved in preparation has included not only health
expertise, but also health economics, human resource development, capacity
building and financial management.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The construction of health facilities is the only
identified area of possible risk within the Program, however under Phase I
(the Project), construction is limited to minor works. Within the
drafting of the long-term facility development plan, the Task Team will
flag attention to the environmental assessment requirements if new
construction is implied.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Julie Mclaughlin
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-4679
Fax: 202-473-8239
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 15, 2000.
- 5 -



