                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 30317-LS

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-Q1700 IDA-33760)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.5 MILLION

                                           TO THE KINGDOM

                                              OF LESOTHO

                                                 FOR A

                                HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                           December 29, 2005




Human Development 1
Country Department 1
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2000)

                                    Currency Unit = Lesotho Maluti
                                             6.243 = US$
                                     US$ 1.32717 = 1 SDR

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                        April 1   March 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANC          Ante Natal Care
ARV          Ant - Retroviral
CHAL         Christian Health Association of Lesotho
DEMU         Director Estate Management Unit
DHP          District Health Package
DHPSUDirector Health Planning and Statistics Unit
DHMT         District Health Management Team
DHS          Demographic and Health Survey
DRA          Drug Regulatory Authority
DSW          Director Social Welfare
EDL          Essential Drug List
EMU          Estate Management Unit
EPI          Expanded Programme on Immunisation
ESP          Essential Service Package
EU           European Union
FC           Financial Controller
FMC          Financial Management Committee
FMIS         Financial Management Information System
FMU          Financial Management Unit
GFATM        Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria
GOL          Government of Lesotho
HIV/AIDS     Human Immuno Virus/ Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
HMIS         Health Management Information System
HR           Human Resource
HRD          Human Resource Department
HRMIS        Human Resource Management Information System
HSAs         Health Service Areas
HSRP         Health Sector Reform Program
HPSU         Health Planning and Statistics Unit
IDA          International Development Agency
IMCI         Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
LAPCA        Lesotho Aids Program Coordinating Authority
LPC          Lesotho Pharmaceutical Cooperation
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHSW        Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
MOFDP        Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
MOPS         Ministry of Public Service
MTEF         Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NMP          National Medicines Policy
NDSO         National Drug Service Organisation
NGOs         Non-Government Organizations

NTC      National Therapeutic Committee
OPD      Out Patient Diseases
OVC      Orphan and Vulnerable Children
PAU      Project Accounting Unit
PHC      Primary Health Care
PICR     Program implementation Completion Report
PNC      Pre Natal Care
PMTCT    Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QE-II    Queen Elizabeth II Hospital
RHSP     Rural Health Service Project
RSA      Republic of South Africa
SDT              Standard Drug Treatment
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infections
TA       Technical Assistance
TB       Tuberculosis
TOR      Terms of Reference
TWG      Technical Working Group
UNAIDS   United Nations AIDS
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WHO      World Health Organization




                             Vice President:    Gobind Nankani
                           Country Director:    Ritva S. Reinikka
                            Sector Manager:     Dzingai Mutumbuka
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Muhammad Ali Pate

                                          LESOTHO
                                Health Sector Reform Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Government Comments: Executive Summary                                  34

Project ID: P053200                                                  Project Name: Health Sector Reform Project
Team Leader: Muhammad Ali Pate                                       TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Sector Reform Project                             L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1700; IDA-33760
   Country/Department: LESOTHO                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (68%); Central government administration (28%); Other social services (3%);
                            Compulsory health finance (1%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); HIV/AIDS (P); Population and reproductive health (S); Child
                            health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/19/1999                                     Effective: 01/31/2001                01/31/2001
     Appraisal: 11/11/1999                                         MTR: 11/09/2002                  11/09/2002
      Approval: 06/13/2000                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO/MINISTRY OF HEALTH & SOCIAL
                                           WELFARE
                      Other Partners:      WHO, AfDB, Government of Ireland, EU, UNICEF

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ritva S. Reinikka                              Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Team Leader at ICR:             Muhammad Ali Pate                              Julie Mclaughlin
ICR Primary Author:             Emmanuel G. Malangalila


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
          The project was designed as the first phase of a long-term Health Sector Reform Program
(HSRP) aimed at a sustainable increase in access to quality preventive/promotive, curative and
rehabilitative health care services, including expanded efforts in the national response to HIV/AIDS. The
program was defined in three phases, with the first phase comprising the project which this ICR
addresses. The premise of the design was that by building the capacity of the institutions, and
strengthening systems and procedures in the Phase I Project, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
(MOHSW) would be enabled to begin to improve health outcomes. Thus, improvements in service
delivery targets and health outcomes were not anticipated as results of the first phase.

3.1.1     The objectives of Phase 1: Strengthening Institutional Capacity (originally 2000-2003) were
to (i) establish the institutional capacity required to enable the MOHSW to develop, implement and
monitor a comprehensive Sector Reform Program and (ii) expand the capacity of the public sector to
respond to HIV/AIDS. By the end of the first phase, the MOHSW would be able to collect and analyze
information, formulate and assess sectoral strategies for improving equity, quality and access, meet
international standards for financial management, monitor progress against a stated workplan towards
measurable targets, evaluate strategies, and attract and retain qualified staff. The Government of
Lesotho would have established partnerships with nongovernmental organizations undertaking activities
to prevent the transmission of HIV and mitigate the impact of AIDS. Throughout the first phase, the
Ministry and its core partners would endeavor to define common systems, procedures and standards
which would support the longer-term objective of disbursing donor and Bank support as time-slice
financing against a single budget.

3.1.2.    The objective of Phase II: Policy and Institutional Reform (originally 2003 - 2006) will be to
pilot or test, critically assess and revise proposed reform strategies. Strategies include: (i) financing and
financial management reforms, exploration of pro-poor mechanisms to improve the efficiency and
sustainability of sector financing, outsourcing to improve the efficiency and sustainability of sector
financing and staffing; (ii) developing and improving performance management systems; (iii) revision of
protocols for more effective delivery of essential health services at district level; (iv) developing new
approaches to pharmaceutical purchasing and distribution; and (v) replacing or relocating the national
referral hospital. Due to delay in closing Phase I, Phase II commenced in January 2005.

3.1.3     Phase III: Nationwide and Sector-Wide Implementation (originally 2006-2009) will support the
process of scaling-up strategies that produce established evidence of: (i) effectiveness at improving
financial sustainability; (ii) increased ability of the system to reach the poor; (iii) strengthened
commitment to stakeholders; and (iv) enhanced implementation capacity. The dual purpose of this phase
is to realize a nationwide and sector-wide implementation of development strategies and to achieve
measurable outputs according to the stated reform program objectives. This phase will contain the
substantive investment in the program through the roll-out of pilots, training and re-training of staff, and
additional construction of a health system infrastructure. The impact of the project should begin to be
seen in health service indicators by this phase.

3.2 Revised Objective:
          The objectives of the project were not revised. However, the closing date for the project was
extended once to June 30, 2005 to allow attainment of the triggers for moving to Phase II. This project
was an early APL, and the team had agreed with the client that attainment of the triggers would indicate
readiness to move to phase II, rather than being tied to a specific date.

3.3 Original Components:
          The Health Sector Reform Program included 10 key components: (i) financial planning and
management; (ii) decentralization; (iii) development of a health service package; (iv) human resource
management; (v) pharmaceuticals supply and management; (vi) social welfare; (vii) infrastructure
development and maintenance; (viii) partnerships; (ix) HIV/AIDS prevention and control; and (x)



                                                        - 2 -

monitoring and evaluation.

3.4 Revised Components:
          Not Applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
          The project was designed to respond to lesson learned during the previous two HNP operations
regarding institutional capacity, ownership and sustainability. The Population, Health and Nutrition
Project (PHN) and PHNII failed to produce the intended results. Despite cumulative extensions totaling
3.25 years, PHNII only disbursed 80% of the US$12.1 million committed over the 8.5 years of the
project. The PHNII ICR stated that "Lessons emphasize the need for ensuring sufficient ownership and
commitment to the project; sufficiently appraising institutional capacity and tailoring the project to
borrower's capacity; focusing on institutional strengthening which will ensure sustainability of objectives;
the value of Bank supervision; the need to include a broader range of expertise (e.g., financial
management) in Task Teams; and the importance of monitoring systems for assessing project impact".
In 1998, while the subsequent APL was under preparation, Lesotho experienced a period of civil unrest
arising from disputed elections. The outcome was the establishment of an Interim Government Authority
and postponed elections (which only took place in 2002). At this point the APL project objectives were
scaled back, as the Task Team concluded with the Ministry that endeavoring to undertake significant
policy and institutional reforms would be unrealistic in the near term given the political situation.

          The project was assessed by QAG and rated satisfactory 2 for quality at entry. The QAG Team
found that :

i) The APL design, with a phased approach and predetermined triggers for the first phase, was
appropriate for achieving the project objectives: strengthening institutional capacity (Phase I) followed by
policy and institutional reform (Phases II - III). The program design was based on solid analysis of the
sectoral track record and lessons learned from past projects and studies in the health sector in Lesotho.
Program sequencing, with its three-phase design that emphasized capacity building, piloting and scaling
up, made good use of the lessons learned.

ii) Government ownership, a prerequisite for this program that aimed at systemic reform, was another
strong feature of this program.

iii) In terms of the social aspects of the project, there was a highly effective participatory process of
involving beneficiaries and other key stakeholders. In addition, attention was given to gender issues and
the needs of women in the design of the district health service package.

iv) The financial management preparation and planning was highly satisfactory. There were
appropriate strategies for dealing with risks related to technical soundness and institutional effectiveness.


v) The Bank's inputs and processes were highly satisfactory. The task team included a good skills mix:
strong team leadership combined with the skills of a health economist, operations adviser, financial
management adviser, procurement specialist, health systems specialist and consultants with expertise in
human resource development, capacity assessment and other critical areas. There had been continuity
in task leadership and management.

vi) The contributions from Government and other donors had been high, and the value added from
management oversight and peer reviewers' comments was also highly satisfactory.

vii) Areas identified for improvement were: (i) the project had not yet conducted detailed institutional and
political economy analysis of the reforms contemplated for phases 2 and 3, given the level of complexity
of the system, the content of proposed reforms and the changing environment; (ii) although the
economic analysis for AIDS was well done, the economic analysis regarding access to health care was



                                                       - 3 -

less thorough as the team was constrained by a limited database, thus the FMIS would be important; and
(iii) additional attention might be required regarding longer-term procurement requirements.

In retrospect, the ICR team concludes that an area that could have been improved was the prioritization
of capacity building interventions within the reform program, and the number of triggers for moving from
Phase I to Phase II. With 14 indicators as triggers for moving to the second phase prioritization was
difficult.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
          The achievement of the objectives of Phase I: Strengthening Institutional Capacity is rated
as satisfactory. The project achieved the objectives of Phase 1 which focused on institutional capacity.
Specific achievements include the following:
i) Capacity to coordinate and monitor the reform program, especially in the Directorate of Planning, was
built as evidenced by the MOHSW's development of a 10-year health sector policy and strategic plan
and the first three-year rolling health sector expenditure program that is linked to the overall Government
of Lesotho's medium expenditure framework (MTEF). The senior management of the MOHSW are
working hard to improve cohesion between the various directorates in the Ministry with regular meetings
being held with program leaders to review progress and address outstanding policy issues. The MOHSW
is now well positioned to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate comprehensive health sector reform
strategies in the areas of service delivery, health financing, human resources, drug supply and
infrastructure development.
ii) The financial management and information system in the MOHSW was improved, with standardized
budgeting procedures, integrated planning and budgeting process, decentralized cost centers, improved
application of budget against plans, and all audits of external funds conducted on time with unqualified
reports.
iii) A five-year strategic plan for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was developed and institutionalized,
with regularly conducted quarterly activity monitoring reports and with annual joint sector reviews,
consistent with the sector-wide approach.
iv) The partnership between GOL and Christian Health Association of Lesotho (CHAL) was strengthened.
The Government signed an interim agreement with CHAL, and a draft Memorandum of Understanding
was prepared to formalize the contractual arrangement between GOL and CHAL.
v) A Human Resources (HR) development needs assessment and strategic plan was completed. The
Directorate of Human Resources was created and staffed. The foundation has been prepared for the
Phase II objectives of developing and improving performance management systems.
vi) A long-term infrastructure plan was developed to guide the medium term investment plan of the
health sector. An Estate Management Unit was created and staffed to oversee the routine maintenance
function within the MOHSW.
vii) The essential health package was defined to address the most prevalent diseases and service
delivery requirements in the health sector, and it has also extended to referral systems. District health
management teams have been established in three pilot districts to improve service delivery at
decentralized level. This will support the Phase II objective of "revision of protocols for more effective
delivery of essential health services at district level".
viii) Policy and technical guidelines, protocols and procedures were developed for TB, IMCI, HIV/AIDS
treatment, and prevention of Mother-to- Child Transmission.
ix) The project supported nongovernmental and faith based organizations to implement interventions for
HIV/AIDS prevention and care, including voluntary testing and counseling, condom distribution, home
based care, and support for orphans. The project laid the ground for the subsequent 2004 HIV/AIDS
Capacity and Technical Assistance Project.

          There are, however, areas where progress on institutional capacity building has not been fully
satisfactory, including: i) filling all vacant positions with appropriately skilled personnel; ii) establishing a
Health Management Information System (HMIS) that would manage the required information and
evidence in reporting health sector reform program indicators; and iii) building capacity of several
departments in the MOHSW and districts in implementing the reform program and strengthening service


                                                         - 4 -

delivery. These areas, including strengthening health service delivery at district and community levels,
will need to strengthened during Phase II of the program. High attrition of health professionals
(especially doctors, nurses and pharmacists) due to migration and HIV/AIDS related morbidity and
mortality is also impeding progress.

         The achievements of Phase I provide a foundation for implementation of Phase II of the Health
Sector Reform Program. Annex 1 illustrates in detail the current status of Phase I efforts in
strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOHSW to define, implement and evaluate the Health
Sector Reform Program, and in expanding the capacity of the public sector to respond to HIV/AIDS. The
Phase I period was extended for 15 months to enable achievement of these aims.

         Ultimately, the achievement of the objectives of the 10-year Health Sector Reform Program will
be measured against the following program's key performance indicators:

l    Increased percentage of children under 5 fully immunized
l    Increase TB treatment success rate
l    Increase in ante-natal clinic attendance
l    Increase percentage of deliveries assisted by a trained provider
l    Increase in Contraception Prevalence Rate (CPR)
l    Reduced prevalence of Sexually-Transmitted Diseases (STDs)
l    Increased percentage of the population within two hours walking distance of a health facility meeting
l    Increased percentage of GOL and Christian Health Association of Lesotho (CHAL) health facilities
     with appropriate numbers and types of qualified staff for the level of the facility
l    Reduced variance in per capita weighted allocations to districts

         Developing the capacity to monitor results was an important component of Phase I. These
indicators are now reported upon by the Health Planning and Statistics Unit (HPSU) to Government and
all Partners. The completion (in 2005) of Lesotho's first Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) was an
important output of the project. The DHS provides a reliable baseline for assessing at the end of the
Program the impact of the institutional strengthening of Phase I, the reforms that will be supported under
Phase II and the scale-up anticipated under the third and final phase.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    Financial Planning and Management

         This component supported the development and installation of financial management and
information systems, integrated budgeting procedures, and the development of a three-year Sector
Expenditure Plan (SEP). Capacity has been built on financial planning and management in the following
areas.

(i)       Financial Management Information System (FMIS). Technical assistance (TA) was contracted to
develop an access-based FMIS software, which was piloted at the new Project Accounting Unit (PAU)
responsible for all external financing. The software has been successfully employed, and has improved
the management of the capital budget, as evidenced by satisfactory audit reports for subsequent years.
Accountants were trained and equipment, including computers, was procured. The PAU had started a
process of acquiring more robust `off- the-shelf software', which could be used in establishing a financial
management network. Using the FMIS, the PAU had created a locus of `best practices' in financial
management and the way forward is defined.

         The main limitation was that the innovations were not mainstreamed across the MOHSW. There
was no `after sales support' and the software still needed some fine-tuning to ensure sustainability. An
electronic vote book was developed and pretested in some areas but suffered some setbacks because (i)
both paper and electronic versions of the vote book had to be maintained as the current financial
regulations had not provided for electronic signatures; (ii) the Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning (MOFDP) needed only minimal information; and (iii) the status of funds could be easily
obtained manually and consequently, the electronic register was not used fully.



                                                     - 5 -

(ii)      Strengthening the Financial Management System. Achievements in this area included (i)
establishment of the Financial Management Unit (FMU) within the Health Planning and Statistical Unit
(HPSU); (ii) reactivation of the Financial Management Committee (FMC); (iii) creation of the PAU and
the Procurement Unit (PU) within the HPSU; and (iv) rationalization of MOHSW cost centers. The
underlying goal was to create a favorable environment for using the FMIS in improving financial
management practices. Financial and procurement procedures and guidelines were developed and
applied in the implementation of Phase I. Long- and short-term training were conducted and the required
equipment procured. These agencies had been functional, and they only needed to be strengthened to
develop leadership in financial reform. Mainly staffed by trained nationals who had clear-cut strategic
functions, the leadership should be sustainable. However, the physical separation of the PAU and the PU
from the Financial Controller's Unit did not facilitate the process of sharing `best practices'. The
possibility of moving the PAU to the Financial Controller's Unit and the PU to the Logistics Section of the
MOHSW should be explored. The problem of a weak Financial Controller's Unit -- as for much of the
project there was no Financial Controller working in the Ministry -- needs to be addressed during the next
phase of the reform program.

(iii)     Development of a Three-Year Sector Expenditure Plan (SEP). The assumption was that the new
FMIS and Health Management Information System (HMIS) would provide the necessary information to
link inputs to outputs, thus demonstrating performance and the costs of produced outputs. Initially, TA
was contracted to facilitate the process and as a direct result, a Financial Management Unit (FMU) with
the primary task of developing the SEP, was established at the MOHSW. Participatory and `learning by
doing' approaches were employed in developing the plan and a three-year SEP was completed at the
end of November 2004 (after the original project closing date) and discussed at the 5th Annual Joint
Review (AJR) on January 2005. There was delay in developing the SEP because (i) the cost centers
were defined on the basis of Health Service Areas (HSA) while the long-term strategy was to adopt the
district as the basic health planning unit; and (ii) the MOHSW lacked support for a three-year plan from
the MOFDP, which normally calls for a one-year budget. Where a multi-year budget plan had worked
well, the MOFDP had provided the leadership and overall framework in budgeting. It was encouraging to
note that the MOFDP introduced a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) process beginning
with a few ministries, including the MOHSW. The Phase II project will build on this achievement and
disburse against annually approved budgets in the 3-year rolling sector expenditure plan (SEP).

4.2.2    Decentralization

         The Government of Lesotho has pursued a policy of decentralization, which involves all
Ministries. The objective of decentralization is to broaden the scope of partnerships so as to include
communities and to empower consumers in taking the responsibility and accountability for their health
and social well-being. The pace, modalities and scope of decentralization depends significantly on
preparations and efforts by the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) to build the capacity of the local
agencies. Although district health teams did not manage cash, could not hire and fire, and did not own
assets, at the beginning of the project they did have authority over day-to-day operations and resource
management.

         The MOHSW undertook progressive decentralization where authority and accountability for
primary health care would be passed to local authorities as soon as they attained sufficient capacity.
Milestones that would trigger the hand-over of facilities to local councils have not been developed, and it
is not yet clear whether the MOHSW will grant authority to local councils to manage the delivery of
defined services e.g., district health package (DHP) . The piloting of government decentralization in three
districts started late and encountered two main constraints: (i) late election of local councils and (ii)
failure to designate cost centers for the District Health Management Teams (DHMT) in 2004-05, that
resulted in a lack of working space and equipment and the inability of DHMTs to be separated from
hospital management as planned. By the project closing date, the DHMTs in the three districts had been
established and efforts were underway to expand the separate DHMTs in all the districts in the country.




                                                       - 6 -

4.2.3      Development of an Essential Service Package

          The Essential Service Package (ESP) addresses 80% of the common problems in the health
sector. It was put together to assist the MOHSW in: (i) providing a framework for prioritizing public
expenditures that would ensure rational use of resources; (ii) providing benchmarks against which the
MOHSW would measure the levels of disbursement of the cost of care services on the basis of equity;
(iii) defining the DHMTs' core function; and (iv) providing a framework for the provider-purchase
arrangement between GOL and CHAL. The ESP, piloted in three districts, was defined but not yet
costed. The MOHSW plans to conduct an evaluation of the implementation of the ESP in three districts
before rolling it out in the rest of the country. During Phase II, implementation of the Essential Health
Package will be an area of focus.

4.2.4     Human Resource Management

          This component was designed to address the sector's main challenges in manpower, namely: (i)
poor management resulting in high attrition rate, high staff turnover, and inappropriate staff deployment
and training; (ii) lack of established criteria to define the optimal manpower mix; and (iii) the absence of a
strategic health manpower development plan that would provide efficient and effective service delivery.
To address these challenges, the MOHSW implemented the following measures under Phase I:

(i)       Human Resources Planning and Development. The MOHSW commissioned a Human Resource
Needs Assessment Study in 2002. The Ministry of Public Service collaborated in this study. The outputs
of this assessment included a baseline database of available skills, situational analysis of key problems,
and an assessment of local health training institutions. The Ministry developed a Human Resource
Development and Strategic Plan (HRDSP), which however has not yet been endorsed by the GOL. The
main issues in the plan included: (i) the number and type of personnel to be recruited; (ii) training
strategies for pre-/in-service and post-basic levels; (iii) options for incentives and motivation in improving
staff efficiency; (iv) specialized services for special needs; and (v) the financial implications of the plan.

          The existing procedures continued to hinder the timely creation and filling of strategic posts that
are necessary for the current system to function efficiently and effectively. Likewise, the existing
incentive structures and evaluation systems adopted from the Ministry of Public Service (MOPS) did not
work well in other sectors' HR departments. Notable problems in this area included: (i) the lengthy
procedure for deployment of newly trained staff; (ii) the absence of a recruitment plan and policy, which
had contributed to inefficiencies in the management of human resources; and (iii) the inability of the
MOHSW to independently develop and implement suitable incentive systems, which had undermined its
ability to recruit and retain staff. Moreover, the rapid staff turnover in the HSAs and transfers to other
Ministries after undergoing training exacerbated these problems.

(ii)      Development of an Integrated Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS). The
HRMIS was drafted to: (i) track the terms of promotion, filling of posts, preparation of short-lists,
structuring of benefits, vacancy assessments and postings, and study leave; (ii) assist in the planning
and monitoring staff training; and (iii) provide staff data - segregated by profession, location,
remuneration costs, and staffing needs required for human resource planning. However, the system had
not been compatible with the Government of Lesotho Financial Information System (GOLFIS) and
UNIQUE employed by Ministries of Finance and Public Service, respectively. Therefore, there is a need
to review the implications of the new HRMIS before it is finalized.

(iii)     Strengthening the Human Resource Department (HRD). In the course of Phase I, the MOHSW
structure was reviewed and revised in light of changing roles and responsibilities due to decentralization,
the emerging challenges of HIV/AIDS (e.g., Directorate for HIV/AIDS established), and public/private
innovations and maintenance. At the same time, the MOHSW personnel division was elevated to a
directorate and since then, the Department was staffed with a Director, a Manager, and additional staff
at central and district levels. Training for the HRD staff was undertaken in various HR disciplines.




                                                        - 7 -

4.2.5    Pharmaceutical Supply and Management

         A private firm was contracted to conduct a comprehensive review of pharmaceutical services.
This firm submitted its report in August 2003. Many of the findings from this review informed the
development of the Pharmaceutical Master Plan (PMP), which contributed significantly in charting the
way forward. During Phase I the following were achieved: (i) revision and dissemination of the National
Medicines Policy (NMP); (ii) establishment of the Drug Regulatory Authority (DRA) to monitor drug
quality and ensure that drug selection is based on Essential Drug List (EDL); (iii) development of tools to
facilitate rationale prescription, e.g., the National Therapeutic Committee (NTC) was revived and
became functional, the Essential Drug List (EDL) and the Standard Treatment Guidelines (STG) were
drafted and endorsed by the NTC; (iv) passage of legislation such as the National Medicines and
National Drug bills; (v) conducting drug awareness campaigns; and (vi) training and deployment of a
number of pharmacy personnel.

4.2.6    Social Welfare

         The health sector reforms included the social welfare and mental health component as a priority
area that had previously been marginalized. This component of the reforms was a response to the lack of
policy direction, focus and capacity in the delivery of social welfare services. The new social welfare
policy was developed and approved by the Cabinet in March 2003. Although nine social welfare staff
underwent long training during Phase I, the capacity of the Department was undermined by a high
vacancy rate ­ 29% or 10 out of 34 vacancies, which were funded positions. With the assistance of the
Bureau of Statistics (BS), the Department developed a system for tracking orphans, which reviewed the
orphan registration form and developed a register of orphans. The orphan registration project was tested
in two localities in Maseru. An update on the situational analysis of orphans and vulnerable children was
also done during Phase I. Public assistance coverage increased during Phase I from 3,540 people in
2002-2003 to 4,333 in 2003-2004 and to 4,858 in 2004-2005.

4.2.7     Infrastructure Development and Maintenance

         The main achievements under this component were: (i) establishment and operationalization of
the Estate Management Unit (EMU), which was responsible for the planning and management of the
Ministry's infrastructure; (ii) development of standards, designs, guidelines and specifications for sector
infrastructure; (iii) construction, renovation and upgrading of various health facilities; and (iv) finalization
of the MOHSW infrastructure master plan.

(i)      Establishment and Operationalization of the Estate Management Unit (EMU). An Estate
Management Unit was established to provide a base for the Ministry's infrastructure management and
development operations. An assessment of the EMU conducted in 2002 revealed that there had been (i)
lack of operational tools in the management of infrastructure; (ii) absence of managerial capacity among
staff; and (iii) fragmented coordination between units undertaking maintenance of facilities and
equipment. Additional staff was required in order to enable the unit to fulfill its mandate. In response, the
Ministry strategically decided to merge the EMU with the Rural Health Service Project (RHSP)
professional team so as to improve the Unit's capacity.

(ii)      Development of Standards, Designs, Guidelines and Specifications for Sector Infrastructure. The
MOHSW developed a standard equipment list for the different levels of GOL and CHAL health facilities.
These standards have been used in the construction of new health centers and in the renovation of
existing health centers.

(iii)     Construction, Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Various Health Facilities. Though infrastructure
development continued in an ad hoc fashion during Phase I, several projects were implemented. They
included: (i) renovation of Mohlomi Hospital; (ii) renovation of Qoaling filter clinic; (iii) improvement of
rural clinics; (iv) refurbishment of village health posts; and (v) construction of staff houses in Mokhotlong
and at Machabeng Hospitals. Maintenance workshops for the renovation of Botsa'belo and Queen




                                                       - 8 -

Elizabeth II Hospitals had also been carried out. The process of construction of the new referral hospital
at a new site was initiated during Phase I. A geotechnical study was conducted for the construction of this
facility. The National Waste Management Plan was completed. However, the process of contracting a
project manager that would oversee the implementation of an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
was postponed. A novel concept for replacing the hospital through a public-private partnership has been
developed. IFC is now working with the MOHSW and MOFDP to develop the concept for
implementation during Phase III.

          Three major challenges remain: (i) strengthening of the EMU to enable effective implementation
of the infrastructure plan that includes preventive maintenance; (ii) construction of facilities that would
accommodate the implementation of District Health Package and decentralization, e.g., additional staff
houses, offices, facilities and equipment; and (iii) construction of a new apex referral hospital to replace
QEII Hospital at a new site.

4.2.8     Partnerships

          Significant achievements were made during Phase I in the following areas: (i) improved
coordination of donor financing; (ii) effective and open coordination between GOL, CHAL and other
NGOs; and (iii) increased collaboration with South Africa.

(i)       Improvement in Coordination of Donor Financing. The Health Sector Reform Program was the
first attempt of the health sector to use one consolidated plan as a basis for mobilization of resources
from all development partners. Since the inception of the reform program, the MOHSW successfully
institutionalized regular meetings for partners' joint monitoring of the implementation of health sector
activities, i.e., annual joint reviews and six weekly meetings between MOHSW and partners to discuss
progress on the agreed indicators/milestones. Over the past four years, these meetings have become
forums for reviewing a comprehensive health sector strategy, including all activities of the vertical
programs. Biannual Primary Health Care (PHC) meetings were also held to coordinate the planning and
monitoring functions at the central and HSA levels. The move to a three-year expenditure plan formed
the basis for coordinating the future support of all development partners, which made the process more
efficient.

(ii)      Coordination between GOL, CHAL and other NGOs. Significant progress had been realized in
forging a formal partnership between CHAL and the GOL during Phase I. A GOL/CHAL partnership
study, commissioned in 2000, proposed a framework for the process. Following the recommendations of
that study, a Supplementary Emergency Financing Facility (SEFF) was signed in December 2002. The
facility provided for salary subsidies and additional funding that would bring all CHAL institutions to a
threshold level equivalent to 20% of their annual operating costs during a two-year interim period, while
arrangements were being made for a long-term Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). Disbursements
to CHAL started in 2003-2004 and subsequently, while reports were received from CHAL based on an
agreed reporting format. A performance review of the SEFF, which was conducted on June-July 2004,
indicated that the grant outlays from MOHSW to CHAL increased by 5% between 2002-2003 and
2003-2004, the first year of the SEFF disbursement.

          To spearhead the process of forging partnerships, a Joint Task Force comprised of Principal
Secretaries from the Ministries of Finance & Development Planning, Public Service, Education &
Training, Cabinet, Law & Constitutional Affairs, the CHAL Secretariat, Nursing Schools, and Proprietor
representation, and chaired by the Government Secretary, was established. In 2003 a GOL/CHAL
Coordinator was recruited. Serving as the principal liaison between GOL and CHAL, the Coordinator's
main task was to oversee the implementation of the partnerships during the pre- and post- certification
periods.

          Collaboration between the MOHSW and traditional healers has improved, with the MOHSW
providing support for review of legislation, training on HIV/AIDS, and agreements on a referral
mechanism. However, a formal partnership between the MOHSW and traditional healers is yet to be
finalized.



                                                      - 9 -

(iii)    Increased Collaboration with the Republic of South Africa. The Lesotho/RSA Working
Committee was revived and a Letter of Intent was signed in 2001. An MOU was drafted and covered the
following areas: (i) cross-boarder referral of patients; (ii) HIV/AIDS prevention and control; (iii) disease
surveillance and epidemiology; (iv) capacity building; and (v) sharing of information and expertise.
Challenges still remain on : ( i) finalization of the funding formula for the future support to CHAL; ( ii)
accreditation of CHAL health facilities; ( iii) operationalization of the memorandum of understanding
(MOU); and (iv) effective monitoring and evaluation of the GOL/CHAL partnership.

4.2.9   HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control

        Just before negotiations, the Bank management asked the team to consider adding an explicit
HIV/AIDS component to the project. This was prior to the Africa Region's Multisectoral AIDS Program
(MAP), but there was significant pressure on Country Directors to demonstrate the Bank's commitment to
HIV/AIDS. The MOHSW's National AIDS Control Programme (NACP) was very weak and the Lesotho
AIDS Programme Coordinating Authority (LAPCA) had not yet been established. Other government
ministries undertook almost no HIV/AIDS activities, despite the fact that 2% of the budget of all GOL
ministries had been earmarked for HIV/AIDS. The team argued that adding such a component without
preparation would further strain weak implementation capacity. Thus, they proposed that a limited
amount be incorporated (US$2 million), that the GOL be required to contract implementation support,
and that a large share of the funds be disbursed through nongovernmental actors as a way to expand
government implementation capacity and response to HIV/AIDS.

        The MOHSW played a significant role in the development of a multi-sectoral strategic plan for
HIV/AIDS and the establishment of LAPCA in the first quarter of 2001. Delays in implementation of the
HIV/AIDS component resulted from the condition of disbursement which stipulated that a firm be
contracted to support implementation. The contracting process only commenced after project approval,
and a significant amount of time was lost developing the Terms of Reference (TOR) and conducting the
recruitment. Efforts to develop a work plan, structure and consensus on the national AIDS strategy soon
began, but the work slowed due to staff recruitment problems: recruitment was hindered by both GOL
salaries and the administrative procedures of the Public Service Administration (PSA). With limited staff
for many months, LAPCA was not able to perform as anticipated. The Head of LAPCA was dismissed
without clear reason or immediate replacement. No replacement for LAPCA's chief executive was
appointed for two years until towards the end of Phase I. During this period LAPCA remained with two
professional staff - a planner and an administrator, and a few junior staff. The abrupt removal of
LAPCA's chief executive resulted in an unexpected delay of the HIV/AIDS grants processing and
approval cycle.

        Despite all these problems, progress was made. Support from Crown Agents South Africa (which
were hired to provide implementation support) proved critical. Main achievements have included: (i)
development and endorsement of a national HIV/AIDS strategic plan; (ii) creation of a system for the
coordination of HIV/AIDS activities at all levels, i.e., LAPCA/NAC at national level, District AIDS Task
Forces and HIV/AIDS Directorate at the MOHSW; (iii) mobilization of the public and private sectors
towards implementation of the strategic plan; and (iv) mobilization of resources for HIV control -
equivalent to 2% of each ministerial annual budget allocations and US $34 million from Global Fund.
Through Crown Agents, LAPCA disbursed funds to NGOs and one public sector institution (Lesotho
Mountain Police) to implement HIV/AIDS prevention, care and impact mitigation interventions. By
January 2005, 77% of the $2 million had been spent and the rest (23%) was committed. An HIV/AIDS
impact assessment at household level had been conducted and data analysis was ongoing. The Bank
approved on August 2004 the HIV/AIDS Technical Assistance and Capacity Building Project to support
the GOL in implementing the Global Fund projects for HIV/AIDS. A behavioral surveillance survey was
conducted in 2002 (MOHSW/FHI) and progress over time will be evaluated when the Demographic and
Health Survey (DHS) data are finally available. As at the time of this ICR, preliminary results were
available but the final report is still pending.

         Evaluation of the HIV/AIDS Component of the Health Sector Reform Project - Phase I was



                                                       - 10 -

conducted before the project closing date and its findings have been incorporated.

4.2.10    Planning and Monitoring

          A comprehensive work and monitoring plan was developed to guide the implementation of
Phase I. The work plan provided the framework for monitoring progress and coordinating the activities of
various departments implementing the different components of the work plan. The main aspects of
monitoring were: (i) a baseline survey that would define the starting point of the reforms; (ii) defining the
MOHSW M&E framework; (iii) strengthening the HMIS; (iv) monitoring Phase I reforms; and (v)
conducting the country's first Demographic and Health Survey.

(i)       Baseline Data. At the outset of Phase I, a private firm was contracted to establish baseline data
for the Phase I performance indicators. The work suffered from the shortcomings of the HMIS. In
addition, where population and facility-based surveys were conducted to complement HMIS data, sample
sizes were small. It has thus not been fully possible to define progress using the baseline values.

(ii)      Defining the MOHSW M&E Framework. The M&E policy and strategic plan that delineated
functional responsibilities and defined appropriate tools was formulated. The Phase I M&E work plan
provided for the establishment of an automated M&E system at central and district levels. The goal was
to ensure that the M&E framework served as many stakeholders as possible. It was also expected that
the ongoing Global Fund and IDA-financed HIV Capacity and Technical Assistance projects would use
and strengthen the proposed MOHSW M&E framework. An M&E unit was established within the HPSU
staffed by one Senior Economic Planner and two Assistant Economic Planners. A long-term Technical
Adviser was commissioned to facilitate capacity building through transfer of skills and training. With
support from the European Union (EU), three officers in the M&E unit underwent postgraduate M&E
training at certificate level in South Africa. Recognizing the multidisciplinary nature of M&E, officers at
the HPSU also completed postgraduate degree training: two in epidemiology, one in public health, one in
health economics, one in biostatistics, and one in demography and population statistics. Hence the
manpower mix necessary for an effective M&E process at the MOHSW had been put in place. However,
an automated and decentralized M&E system was not achieved at the end of Phase I due to the slow
pace in the development of the HMIS and the FMIS.

(iii)     Strengthening the Health Management Information System. The Ministry was expected to be in
a position to regularly produce accurate and relevant data to monitor the reforms towards the end of
Phase I. This objective was not achieved. There was no operational manager that could oversee the
monitoring efforts and consequently, progress had been slow. The HMIS had not been operational; data
were not routinely collected from the districts/HSAs nor were they routinely analyzed. Despite the
MOHSW hiring capable staff in the M&E unit, the quality of M&E remained weak due to low capacity at
the district level. Not surprisingly, this component was consistently rated as U in all the PSRs. In Phase
II the Government's efforts on decentralization of health services should include data management at
district level. Appropriate tools and equipment need to be secured, and capable staff in the district
offices identified and trained so they can learn the skills required in data collection and analysis.

(iv)      Monitoring Phase I of the Reforms. Throughout Phase I, M&E reports were regularly produced
and discussed during quarterly and annual meetings. The initial monitoring reports tended to track
progress on implementing the Phase I work plan, but lacked monitoring of service delivery. The inability
to produce health data on a quarterly basis was a setback in the monitoring process during the early
periods of implementation. The stand alone Phase I work plan, amidst a number of other program related
operational plans, made it also difficult to conduct a holistic monitoring process. Some of these
problems were overcome and the quality of the M&E reports progressively improved in the course of
Phase I, as evidenced by the institutionalized M&E review meetings by management and partners,
improved quality of the M&E reports and the annual health sector reports.

(v)       Country's First Demographic and Health Survey. Under PHNII, the GOL endeavored to conduct
a DHS, but after expending significant resources to collect data it failed to produce any analysis. Thus,



                                                     - 11 -

the completion of Lesotho's first Demographic and Health Survey during this project is viewed as a
significant outcome of the project. The survey provides robust baseline indicators for assessing the
long-term impact of the Program. One unique feature of the survey was that it included population
based HIV, anemia and salt iodine testing.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

        The project has resulted in significant institutional capacity strengthening within the MOHSW,
especially in the Department of Planning. It supported the following activities: (i) harmonizing guidelines
for health planning, budgeting, reporting and streamlining procurement/disbursement procedures for all
resources from the government and donors to the sector; (ii) development of a three-year Sector
Expenditure Plan and budget; (iii) development of national guidelines for a District Health Package; (iv)
strengthening partnerships with development partners and NGOs, especially CHAL, and management of
the SWAp processes; (v) strengthening procurement and financial management for timely production of
accurate financial information and reports; (vi) development of a long-term infrastructure plan; and (vii)
development of structures for coordination of HIV/AIDS activities for public and civil society HIV/AIDS
responses. While there has been significant improvement in institutional capacity, the data to show
improvements in health outcomes are not currently available to determine whether the institutional
development has translated into better health outcomes, and was not just focused on process. Overall
the rating for institutional development impact is modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
        Continued emigration to RSA and other countries of trained health professionals is outside the
control of government of Lesotho due to those countries better salaries and other incentives including
provision of a conducive working environment.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
        The human resource problems in the sector could have been addressed more effectively if they
had been treated by the government as a crisis, but they were not. The success of institutionalization of
the interventions/reforms in the areas of human resources and the decentralization of financial
management and health financing largely depended on the extent to which other ministries like the
Ministry of Public Service (MPS), the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Local Government
(MOLG) were involved in the reform program and whether they were able to respond accordingly.
Frequent changes in the MOHSW high level management (Ministers, Principal Secretaries and
Directors) slowed down the reform process and weakened ownership of the program. Not surprisingly,
the duration of the Phase I had to be extended and the project closing date was revised to June 30,
2005. Since 2003, there has been consistency in the leadership of the MOHSW and this has resulted in
significant improvement and progress in implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
        Within the MOHSW, staff resistance to changing their mindset towards the health reforms
continued to pose a major challenge. Advocacy of the reform program was not conducted sufficiently in
the various departments of the MOHSW and districts. The 14 targets set for Phase I were too numerous,
and the Ministry's limited capacity imposed difficulties in implementation. Despite these challenges, the
MOHSW has been able to gradually transform itself during the 5-year period of project implementation



                                                     - 12 -

so that results were achieved.

5.4 Costs and financing:
         At appraisal, the total program cost was estimated at $20.40 million. Seven sources of financing
were identified: GOL with a contribution of $3.52 million, IDA with a credit of $6.50 million, African
Development Bank with a credit of $3.40 million, European Commission with a contribution of $0.36
million, Government of Ireland with a contribution of $1.30 million per annum (for a three year period
DCI contribution was approximately $4 million) , UNICEF with a contribution of $1.59 million and
WHO with a contribution of $3.73 . At the end of the Phase I, the final cumulative expenditure from all
partners and government was $19.53 million ( 95%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         Project sustainability is assessed as likely for the following reasons:

         i) The Government of Lesotho first requested the Bank's support to develop a sector program in
1996. The government was determined to follow a sector-wide approach to the long-term health sector
reform program, and the Project responded to that demand;

         ii) Phase I of the program substantially strengthened institutional capacity and increased the
ability of the MOHSW and related institutions to adequately assess health needs. This included the
design of cost-effective and affordable health interventions to reach the long term program objective of a
sustainable increase in access to quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health care services.
Previous development assistance efforts in the health sector in Lesotho focused on attaining the
(inevitably, unsustainable) short-term targets of specific health programs, but not in improving the ability
in local institutions to continually evolve and respond to local health needs;

         iii) Government's move to reduce separate donor-supported projects and development of a
single Program Plan and Budget reduced the fragmentation of financing provided to the sector, improved
technical and allocative efficiency of public expenditure, and ensured that investments are sustainable;

         iv) The development of common implementation procedures ensured donors have a vested
interest in building the institutions capacity of government to make allocations and disbursement
decisions, implement strategies, and evaluate impact, rather than establishing individual Project
Management and Implementation Units which usually rely upon temporary capacity and systems , but
not sustainable; and

         v) Donors' commitment to support the health sector in a coordinated fashion with six -weekly
joint meetings and annual joint reviews providing opportunities for reviewing progress.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The Bank performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Project preparation activities
included capacity appraisal and focus, identification of risks and selection of the APL instrument. There
was a strong consultative process and adequate planning of missions. Mission team members were a
mix of public health specialists, health specialists, health economists, architects, financial management
advises, procurement specialists, etc. The lessons learned through implementation of previous Bank
financed projects were incorporated in the design of this project. Close consultations in support of the




                                                     - 13 -

Health Sector Reform Program were conducted between donors and other stakeholders. The program
and project design was consistent with the 1998 Country's Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Government's
priorities in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), and the National Development Vision.

7.2 Supervision:
         Reporting, follow-up of agreed actions, assessment of ratings, quality of advice and compliance
with covenants were adequate. There was an excellent relationship between Government and partners.
Supervision and involvement of management, when necessary, was adequate. Expertise within the
supervision team was appropriate. The Bank team demonstrated pro-activity by downgrading the project
when it was felt that the project outcomes were not very likely to be achieved in early 2004 and took
steps to extend the project so that the objectives were met.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The Government, with the involvement of all stakeholders, was highly committed in preparing
this program. The GOL's clearly defined health sector strategy and priorities set the foundation for the
design of this Health Sector Reform Program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         Government implementation performance was rated as moderately unsatisfactory. Frequent
leadership turn-over, e.g., change of Principal Secretaries and Ministers every year in the early days of
Phase I, affected to a great extent the program/project in its early years. Cohesion between directorates
with the Directorate of Planning did not take place adequately. Effectiveness and support of vital
Ministries (MOFDP, MOPS and MOLG) was not adequate, resulting in significant delays in providing
approvals for several important policy documents, frequent transfers of accountants trained under the
program to other sectors, and delayed appointment of the Chief Executive of LAPCA. The fact that the
leadership position in the national AIDS program was left vacant for two years in the face of more than
20% HIV prevalenc , strongly justifies this performance rating for the government, even though progress
was made in the health reform Phase I implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         The MOHSW implementation performance was rated as satisfactory. Adequate institutional
capacity was built; all legal covenants were met; and quarterly meetings and annual joint reviews were
successfully conducted. Technical assistance was appropriately used for M&E, financial management,
procurement and accounts and audits, pharmaceuticals, infrastructure development, and human
resource development. However, the project closing date was extended for 18 months due to delays in
meeting some of the triggers.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Moderately satisfactory

NB: The rating of Bank and Borrower performance was made based upon the new six point rating
scheme that is being developed by the Operations Evaluation Department. However, because the PDS
system has not been updated, the final ratings are still based on the four point scale provided by the
document template.

8. Lessons Learned

         Lessons learned from the design and implementation of Phase I of the Health Sector Reform
Program include:

(i)      Sustained commitment to reforms and coordination with other ministries is important. There was



                                                   - 14 -

a lack of inter-ministerial coordination, and effectiveness and support of the vital Ministries (MOFDP,
MOPS and MOLG) was not adequate resulting in significant policy implementation delays. The
Government should intensify its efforts on decentralization of health services. This is a challenge to the
GOL as it prepares the design and undertakes the implementation of Phase II of the Health Sector
Reform Program.

(ii)      Broad ownership of the reform process is key to the successful implementation of the reform
program. Ownership and accountability for the reform program has not been sufficiently rooted within the
Ministry's departments/units and the health sector in general. The HPSU has been the only department
well versed with the reform program. To a great extent, leadership turnover prevented smooth
implementation of the program/project in the early days of Phase I. Frequent changes of key personnel
reduced ownership and accountability for the program. The Ministry should be more proactive and
consistent in promoting the content and image of the reform program both within and outside the
MOHSW.

(iii)     Budgeting priorities must be consistent with financial planning. The MOHSW defined a
Three-Year Sector Expenditure Plan with a planning cycle redefined to facilitate integration between the
planning and budgeting priorities as defined in the EHSP implementation during 2005-2006. Where a
multi-year budget plan ­ the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) has worked well, the
MOFDP has always provided leadership and set an overall framework for budgeting. It was encouraging
to note that the MOFDP had introduced an MTEF process beginning with a few Ministries, including the
MOHSW.

(iv)      The health sector is human resource intensive and requires decentralization to effectively deliver
health care services. Although an attempt was made to address the human resource issues by
developing a human resource strategic plan, the Government did not take urgent measures to address
the crisis and this affected and will continue to affect implementation of the reform program, especially at
district level. Decentralization is vital in the management of human resources for effective delivery of
health services. Appropriate tools and equipment need to be procured, and capable staff in the district
offices identified and trained so they could learn the required skills.

(v)       There is a strong need to balance improvements in health sector processes with a focus on
improving health services delivery. Phase I of the reform program focused on strengthening institutional
capacity. While institutional capacity was key to adequate functioning of the health system, there was a
need to simultaneously strengthen service delivery. The second phase of the program needs to focus on
improving health service delivery and quality of health care, especially at district and community levels.

(vi)      A multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS requires well-coordinated and efficient implementation
mechanisms. During Phase I, the GOL developed a multi-sectoral strategic plan for HIV/AIDS and
established the Lesotho AIDS Programme Coordinating Authority (LAPCA) or the National AIDS
Commission (NAC). The Government has been able to mobilize more resources for HIV/AIDS from its
own budget, the Global Fund and from the IDA's HIV/AIDS Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
project. To speed up the Government's national response to HIV/AIDS, it will have to outsource its
implementation of the program to private firms.

(vii)     Monitoring and Evaluation must be given attention at the beginning of a project. At the end of
Phase I, the MOHSW was expected to be in a position to routinely produce accurate data to monitor the
reform, but this did not happen. The project supported a number of studies, which generated important
information on human resource planning and management, the pharmaceutical sub-sector, financial
management, estate management, and the Queen Elizabeth II Hospital. The country's first DHS survey,
which was completed towards the end of Phase I, will provide baseline data on health status and the
sector's performance in the coming years. Despite these huge efforts taken and resources used, the
quality of M&E is still weak. This is an area where Phase II of the program needs to concentrate and
improve on.

(viii)    Donor harmonization. Continued success of the Health Sector reform Program (HSRP) is reliant



                                                     - 15 -

upon further strengthening of donor coordination in the sector. Efforts with the Health Partners Forum
and signature of the statement of intent should be built on. The MOHSW should insist on partners
working in a coordinated and transparent manner through the Directorate of Planning and Health
Statistical Unit.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
         The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW) confirmed its agreement with this ICR and
the ratings. MOHSW's own summary implementation completion report is in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Comments from Development Cooperation of Ireland (DCI):

         DCI Lesotho greatly values both the technical and financial support rendered by the World Bank
(WB) to the health sector reform. The WB has strongly advocated with DCI and the UN agencies that all
health partners should operate within one sector strategic plan. During the project period the collective
participation on producing the Health Partners' statement of intent (to which WB is also signitory) is
another positive move towards eventual realisation of an effective Sector Wide Approach (SWAp).
Operating from one sector plan should eventually lead to all partners accepting one report produced by
the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to reduce the transaction costs, instead of separate reports for
each partner. The WB support has been very instrumental in systems strengthening, during Phase I of
the reforms. DCI appreciates WB's input in ensuring that the sector identified key indicators that would
ensure service delivery toward improved health outcomes. However, the limitations of capacity within the
Ministry to deal with the reform is noted in areas such as:

i) Harmonisation and alignment: There is an influx of development partners interested in the health
sector's response to HIV/AIDS. However, the challenge to bring these new partners within the premise of
a harmonised approach operating within one plan is daunting.

ii) Decentralisation: Lessons learned during the pilot phase of decentralised health services should have
been appropriately documented to inform the proposed evaluation of decentralisation and the
country-wide roll out.

iii) Weak stewardship in the leadership of the Ministry has resulted in lack of clarity on piloting and
linking decentralistaion in the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare with that of Local Government. This
has led to confusion at district level, where officers do not know if they are answerable to the local
council or to the Ministry of Health.

iv) The central programmes have not decentralised. Therefore, they have not assumed the position of
policy formulation, traslation into programmes; supervision and monitoring. Consequently the central
level continues to implement programmes.

v) Sector strategies: Weak, fragmented/disjointed sector strategies:
- The health sector's response to HIV/AIDS
- Procurement strategy
- Implementation of the Human Resource strategic plan.

vi) Financial Management: Although one Sector Expenditure framework has been developed, the
move towards developemnt of one finacial management system in the Ministry has stalled.

In order to build stronger partnerships there is need for: i) a stronger donor harmonisation that includes
the Ministry drafting a code of conduct for health partners in the sector to strengthen the harmonisation
process outlined in the statement of intent; ii) improved cohesion between directorates with the
Directorate Planning playing the facilitating role in all planning and resource allocation; and iii) all plans



                                                     - 16 -

to be mainstreamed and aligned to Sector Strategic Plan and Sector Expenditure Framework (as there is
currently a large assortment of plans available: 3x5, HIV/AIDS and STI Strategic Plan, CF draft
operational plan and of late the new 'know your status' plan).

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

         The following are comments on the ICR received from the Christian Health Association of
Lesotho (CHAL):
i) There is an observation that Development Partners are moving towards a coordinated effort to assist
Lesotho;

ii) There is a lot of effort by Development Partners to capacitate all stakeholders in health service
delivery, including NGOs;

iii) One year project for household food security is inconvenient for the type of activities involved;

iv) TB treatment success rate is negatively affected by inconsistent availability of treatment e.g stock
outs, no services over the week- ends and public holidays;

v) There is a decreasing concentration on the roles of community health workers in reproductive health
issues, hence declining antenatal clinic attendances, deliveries conducted by trained personnel and
contraceptive prevalence;

vi) Unless we embark on poverty reduction strategies and increase household food security, Lesotho
stands lesser chances to reduce TB, STI, HIV/AIDS

vii) Pre requisite tasks to progress towards long term partnership takes too long in the baseline
information development stage. Dissemination to the stakeholders of the conclusions, recommendations
and the concensus reached on the studies conducted, also takes too long;

viii) Focus on the activities to be embarked upon on HIV and AIDS prevention, control and treatment is
biased towards government facilities;

ix) Communication between the District Health Teams and the existing partner institutions is not yet
clear; and

x) Transparency on availability of financial support on all activities would facilitate improved capacity to
utilize the funds.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
              Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1) Allocation of MOHSW Budget for 3-yr     A three-year Sector Expenditure Program in 1. Planning cycle was redefined to facilitate
period defined based on stated priorities  Place                                      integration between the planning and
(Medium-Term Expenditure Review - MTEF)                                               budgeting process.
                                                                                      2. Comprehensive Policy, EHSP and
                                                                                      Strategic Plan were developed as basis of
                                                                                      defining priorities and budgeting by objectives
                                                                                      was introduced.
                                                                                      3. Three year integrated rolling plan (MTEF
                                                                                      based) is in place, staff training was
                                                                                      undertaken for GOL and CHAL programs
                                                                                      and implementation will start in 2005/06. 4.
                                                                                      The process will be closely followed in the
                                                                                      three `learning districts.



2) Financial Management & Information      Financial management and information       1. Decentralized cost centres were
System in Place                            system developed and installed including   established and currently they are producing
                                           building adequate capacity on planning and monthly expenditure reports.
                                           management.                                2. Budgeting procedures have been
                                                                                      standardized; user manual developed,
                                                                                      majority of HSA were provided with
                                                                                      accountants and training is ongoing
                                                                                      3. Project Accounting Unit has been
                                                                                      established to set `best practices' in financial
                                                                                      management starting with capital funds. The
                                                                                      unit has had four successful audited annual
                                                                                      reports.
                                                                                      4. Procurement Unit was established. The
                                                                                      unit procured most of the consultancies and
                                                                                      equipment in Phase I. and now manages
                                                                                      most of the MOHSW capital procurements.
                                                                                      5. Financial Management Unit established.
                                                                                      The unit revived the Financial Management
                                                                                      Committee (FMC) to guide and oversee the
                                                                                      overall budget execution in the MOHSW.
                                                                                      6. All components of the MTEF system have
                                                                                      been installed on the FMU computer and
                                                                                      user guides have been prepared for each
                                                                                      component.
                                                                                      7. Planning cycle redefined to facilitate
                                                                                      integration between the planning and
                                                                                      budgeting process. A standard format for a
                                                                                      three year plan developed using MS Excel,
                                                                                      Detailed working papers contained in an MS
                                                                                      Excel workbook introduced in 2004/05. Data
                                                                                      consolidation database (MS Acess) which
                                                                                      provides for inputs of all recurrent, capital
                                                                                      and CHAL
                                                                                      8. Summary data forms the basis for
                                                                                      generation of reports through linkage with an
                                                                                      MS Excel workbook.



3) Revised interim and final financial     Timely production of Interim & and final   1. The audit report ending March 31st, 2004
statements produced monthly for six months financial statements produced for MOHSW    was submitted to IDA on its last due date of
                                           Management                                 October 1, 2004
                                                                                      2. Monthly status expenditure report for both
                                                                                      recurrent and capital funds is produced
                                                                                      3. The MOHSW organogram was changed to
                                                                                      provide a Directorate of Finance to
                                                                                      strengthen operations.




                                                             - 18 -

4) Defined and functional                      Agreed procedures for disbursement and        1. Financial procedures were changed to
procedures/systems for disbursement,           procurement                                   allow all program managers to authorize
procurement, accounting and reporting                                                        expenditure and control their approved
                                                                                             budgets.
                                                                                             2. Guidelines for accounting and
                                                                                             disbursement of funds developed and
                                                                                             implemented under close follow up in the
                                                                                             three learning districts starting 2005/06.
                                                                                             3. Guidelines for procurement were
                                                                                             developed and are now in use. .
                                                                                             4. A user friendly manual developed and all
                                                                                             cost centres except Administration
                                                                                             department have been trained in the use of
                                                                                             the system. 5. Procurement unit undertakes
                                                                                             procurement of all donor funded items as well
                                                                                             as those funded under the GOL counterpart
                                                                                             funds.for the sector.
                                                                                             6. Project Accounting Unit undertakes
                                                                                             disbursements of Ireland Aid, WB, ADB and
                                                                                             GOL counterpart funding.

5) Quarterly M&E Reports Produced for the Regular reports produced to address of             1. M&E Unit established and M&E policy
past six months                                partners and programs                         guidelines and strategic plan have been
                                                                                             developed.
                                                                                             2. The HMIS is reviewed and strengthened to
                                                                                             support M&E processes.
                                                                                             3. Demographic and Health Survey
                                                                                             conducted to provide population based
                                                                                             indicators for the HSR..
                                                                                             4. Quarterly activity monitoring report and
                                                                                             annual joint program review conducted
                                                                                             regularly for the past three years.
                                                                                             5. Quarterly and Annual Joint Review
                                                                                             meetings were conducted during phase I.

6) Documented Partnership Agreement            Institutional structures or guidelines for    1. A coordinator of GOL/CHAL operations
between all CHAL partners and GOL              partnership and coordination or collaboration was recruited to oversee the implementation
                                               in place                                      of the GOL/CHAL memorandum of
                                                                                             understanding (MOU).
                                                                                             2. A Supplementary Emergency Financing
                                                                                             Facility (SEFF) that provides CHAL with
                                                                                             funds equivalent to 20% of the operating cost
                                                                                             was signed in Dec 2002 and currently
                                                                                             operational, now extended to March 2006
                                                                                             3. A draft MOU is in place pending
                                                                                             completion of annexes before submission to
                                                                                             Cabinet.
                                                                                             4. The Lesotho/ RSA working committee was
                                                                                             revived and collaboration on cross border
                                                                                             referrals, HIV/AIDS and disease surveillance
                                                                                             is ongoing.
                                                                                             5. Collaboration with traditional healers
                                                                                             improved through regular dialogue and
                                                                                             training on HIV/AIDS, referral and the Review
                                                                                             of legislation related o traditional practice.is
                                                                                             on going.



7) 80% of personnel vacancies of six weeks A formal structure for the HR department or       1. A new structure for the HR department
duration or longer were filled within 3 months strategic plan on HR development and          was approved by MPS and the Director for
                                               management in place.                          HR is in place.
                                                                                             2. The vacancy factor was reduced from 40%
                                                                                             in 2000/01 to 15% in 2001/02. Of the 300
                                                                                             vacancies in 2004/05, only 132 (44%) were
                                                                                             filled. The existing procedures within Ministry
                                                                                             for Public service have hindered timely
                                                                                             creation and filling of key posts for the reform




                                                                   - 19 -

                                                                                      program despite the fact that critical staff
                                                                                      such as nurses continue to leave the service.
                                                                                      3. RH study analyzing the current position as
                                                                                      a basis of developing strategic direction on
                                                                                      RH development and management was
                                                                                      undertaken.
                                                                                      4. Draft Human Resources Development and
                                                                                      Strategic Plan has been developed

8) 70% of the budget committed.             Expenditure by MOHSW increased to more     About 100% of IDA funds disbursed or
                                            than 70%                                  committed by the new closing date.



9) Long-Term Plan for Health Infrastructure A strategic development and maintenance   1. A long-term infrastructure plan was
produced                                    plan or standards in place                developed and disseminated to all
                                                                                      stakeholders
                                                                                      2. A Short Term Advisor worked with EMU
                                                                                      to assess equipment and facility needs, and
                                                                                      proposed national standards for equipment
                                                                                      needs and management. Work has been
                                                                                      completed for the five districts, inclusive of
                                                                                      the learning districts.

10) Estates Management Unit (EMU)           Estates Management Unit in place          1. Estate Management Unit was established
established                                                                           in 2001 but lacks operational tools and
                                                                                      absence of managerial capacity. 2. The
                                                                                      director is in place and efforts are underway
                                                                                      to provide more staff.
                                                                                      3. The unit was further strengthened in
                                                                                      2003/04 by merger with Rural Health Service
                                                                                      project (RHPS ) and is getting support from
                                                                                      Health Six Project supported by AfDB

11) Documented Guidelines, policies,        Policy guidelies on TB, IMCI and HIV/AIDS 1. TB policy guidelines developed and in use
protocols and procedures for tuberculosis,  in place                                  2. IMCI policy and guidelines developed and
IMCI and HIV/AIDS.                                                                    in use.
                                                                                      3. PMTCT policy and guidelines developed
                                                                                      and disseminated
                                                                                      4. ARV and HIV post exposure treatment
                                                                                      guidelines were developed and disseminated.
                                                                                      5. Five Year strategic plan for (TB) DOTS
                                                                                      expansion developed and TB treatment policy
                                                                                      was reviewed and updated.




                                                                                      1. Refer to the Annual Joint Review Reports
                                                                                      and quarterly meetings
12) Completed impact evaluation of PhaseI   N/A                                       2. All triggres for Phase II were met.




13) Complete evaluation of AIDS prevention  DHS 2004 conducted                        1. Sentinel surveillance among ANC women
interventions.( see Annex 9)                                                          (2003) was conducted. In this survey,
                                                                                      prevalence among adults was estimated to be
                                                                                      29%. Population based prevalence ( 15 -24
                                                                                      yeras) obtained from 2004 DHS is 11.7%
                                                                                      2. HIV/AIDS impact assessment at
                                                                                      household levels was completed and data
                                                                                      analysed
                                                                                      3. Behavioural Surveillance Survey was
                                                                                      implemented in 2002 (MOHSW/FHI) and
                                                                                      changes over time are shown 2005 DHS .



14) Increased participation of the private  Private sector and NGO participation in   1. A firm (Crown Agent) was recruited and




                                                              - 20 -

sector and Non-governmental Organization  HIV/AIDS precvention and control      disbursed the entire $2 million to NGO within
(NGOs) in HIV/AIDS prevention and control strengthened.                         two years.
                                                                                2. Most of the $34 million from Global Fund
                                                                                will be disbursed to Civil Societes including
                                                                                PLWAs
                                                                                3. The IDA $5 million grant will beused to
                                                                                build capacity in NGOs and communities to
                                                                                respond to the epidemic




Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
             Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project



Table 2. Program key indicators, baseline for 2004 and Targets for 2008

Ref.       Indicator                                   2004 Baseline                  2008 Targets
01         Percentage of under one who are             68% (2004 DHS)                 80%
           fully immunized.
02         Antenatal care coverage                     91% (2004 DHS)                 95%
03         Percentage of deliveries assisted           69% (2004 DHS)                 80%
           by trained provider
04         Percentage of population within 2           1. 79.5% for any type of       80%
           hours walking distance of a fixed           facility (2000 Baseline
           health facility meeting national            Survey)
           standards for accreditation.                2. 34% within one hour
                                                       walk to any type of facility
                                                       (2002 HHBS)
05         Percentage of GOL and CHAL                  GOL Hospitals - 0%             Minimum staff
           health facilities staffed with                                             complement as in
           standard number and type of                                                the HR strategic
           qualified staff for the level of facility                                  plan for specific
           delivery                                                                   levels
                                                       CHAL Hospitals -0%
                                                       GOL H/Cs = 34%                 Nursing clinician +
                                                                                      registered nurse
                                                                                      +nurse assistant
                                                       CHAL H/Cs = 2%



                                                          - 21 -

06     Proportion of patients attending      Data collection is 60%    50%
       QEII that are referred by health      completed.
       service provider from other
       facilities.
07     Percentage of budget allocated for                              15% of the budget
       hospital equipment and                                          for physical assets
       maintenance                                                     maintenance and
                                                                       10% for equipment
                                                                       replacement
08     Percentage of the budget allocation   Direct allocation through 50% increase
       to district health and social welfare recurrent budget =16%
       management teams
09     Percentage of the health budget       Recurrent = 103%.         Recurrent = 100%
       that is expended by programs          Capital =                 for all programme
       (2004/05.)                                                      Capital = over 70%
10     Percentage of district/HSAs where     10% - Only one of the     100%
       quarterly M&E reports are received    districts submitted M&E
       by the due date.                      quarterly report in Q1
                                             -2005
11 (a) Percentage of men and women           F15-19 = 7.8%             25% reduction
       who are 15-24 years and are HIV       F20-24 = 24.5%
       infected                              M15-19 = 2.3%
                                             M20-24 = 12.3%
11 (b) Percentage of women who are           Pregnant = 28.9 (2003     25% reduction
       15-49 years and are HIV infected      sentinel survey)
                                             Both pregnant and non
                                             pregnant = 26.5% (2004
                                             DHS)
12      Percentage of eligible men,          18% (HIV/AIDS             80%
       women and children receiving ARV      Directorate Reports)
       combination therapy
13     Percentage of facilities reporting    Survey protocol           Les than 20%
       one month `stock out' for any of the  development and
       drugs in the EDL for the level.       mobilization of funds
                                             ongoing
14     The ratio of orphans to non orphans   F= 1.0                    F= 1.0
       who are attending school.             M= 0.9                    M= 1.0
                                             All = 1.0                 All = 1.0
15     Percentage of health facilities with  8% (National Health Care  80%
       functional incinerators               Waste Management.
                                             Plan (2004)




                                               - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Financial Planning and Management                            0.73            1.51             206
Planning and Monitoring                                      2.59            1.30              50
Human Resources Development                                  0.94            0.76              81
Partnerships                                                 0.05            0.01              20
Planning for Phase II Activities                             0.19            0.70             368
HIV/AIDS                                                     2.00            1.88              94

Total Baseline Cost                                          6.50            6.16
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.00            0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00            0.00
                         Total Project Costs                 6.50            6.16
                  Total Financing Required                   6.50            6.16


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             2.04         2.03         0.00          4.07
                                  (0.00)           (0.27)      (0.06)         (0.00)       (0.33)
2. Goods                           0.76             0.64         0.25         0.00          1.65
                                  (0.44)           (0.31)      (0.07)         (0.00)       (0.82)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        10.51         0.00         10.51
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.35)         (0.00)       (5.35)
4. Recurrent                       0.00             0.00         0.00         1.87          1.87
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Unallocated                     0.00             0.00         2.30         0.00          2.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.76             2.68        15.09         1.87         20.40
                                  (0.44)           (0.58)      (5.48)         (0.00)       (6.50)




                                                - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.12               0.12              0.00             0.00              0.24
                                          (0.06)            (0.08)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.14)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              6.74             0.00              6.74
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (6.02)           (0.00)            (6.02)
   4. Recurrent                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   5. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
      Total                                0.12               0.12              6.74             0.00              6.98
                                          (0.06)            (0.08)             (6.02)           (0.00)            (6.16)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
      project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.
All Components                 6.50         2.00        11.90        6.16         0.82      12.11       94.8      41.0   101.8
1)DECENTRALIZATION                                                   0.00         0.00       0.40
2) DISTRICT HEALTH                                                   0.00         0.07       0.73
PACKAGE
3) FINANCE                                                           1.36         0.13       0.14
4) HUMAN RESOURCE                                                    0.93         0.04       0.09
5) INFRASTRUCTURE                                                    0.40         0.14       1.46
6) MONITORING AND                                                    1.27         0.30       1.66
EVALUATION
7) PARTNERSHIP AND                                                   0.00         0.00       0.30
DONOR
COORDINATION
8 PHARMACEUTICALS                                                    0.28         0.00       0.30
9) SOCIAL WELFARE                                                    0.00         0.00       0.10
10) HIV/AIDS                                                         1.88         0.06       2.36
11) PRIMARY HEALTH                                                   0.05         0.08       4.57
CARE PROGRAMMES




                                                          - 24 -

- 25 -

Contract Expenditure Report (Consultant's Services)
Category          Selection Contract Contract           Consultant   Contract      Contract   Amount       Amount       Expenditure
Description       Methods Numbers Description                        Currency      Value      Invoiced     Paid
                                                                                              to date      to date      Tupe

FMIS              QCBS      C002      Fin Mgt Info Sys  IMC Ltd.     Pound Ster     819,646.00 669,245.00     669,245.00Foreign
QE-ll Study       QCBS      C003      QE-ll Econ. Study Boston Univ US Dollars       95,004.00 95,004.00       95,004.00Foreign
H R Dev.          QCBS      C004      Human Res. Dev.   MCDI         US Dollars     550,554.00 186,296.54     186,296.54Foreign
Procurement       QUAL      C005      Procurement Adv.  EH Qureshi   US Dollars     373,878.00 373,878.00     373,878.00Foreign
Fin. Mgr.         QUAL      C007      Finance Manager   A Mugera     US Dollars     319,600.00   8,300.00     150,400.00Foreign
Oper. Mgr.        QUAL      C008      Operation Manager P Clark      US Dollars     129,793.00 129,793.00     129,793.00Foreign
Baseline Study    QCBS      C009      Baseline Study    Zikan Intl.  US Dollars     115,578.00 115,557.80     115,557.80Foreign
HIV/AIDS          QCBS      C012      LAPCA Supp.       Crown AgentsUS Dollars      360,450.00 36,450.00       36,450.00Foreign

Phammacruticals QCBS        C013      Phar. Sys.        HERA         US Dollars     250,845.00 150,507.00     150,507.00Foreign
                                      Assessment
EMU               QUAL      C016      EMU Consultancy   A McLennen US Dollars        25,363.00 25,363.00       25,363.00Foreign
Proc. Advisor     QUAL      C025      Procurement Adv.  EH Qureshi   US Dollars      90,000.00 10,000.00       10,000.00Foreign




Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
Category    Contract Description         Procurement Contract Supplier/      Contract   Contract    Amount       Amount    Expenditure
Description                              Methods      Number Contractor      Currency   Value       Invoiced     Paid      Type
                                                                                                    to date      to date
Goods       Motor Vehicle 1 (Proc. Adv) NS            G001    Maseru Toyota  Maloti       84,755.00    84,577.00 84,577.00Local
            Computers & Printers         NS           G002    Quadrant       Maloti       36,085.00    36,085.00 36,085.00Local
            Motor Vehicle 2 (Op. Mgr)    NS           G003    Maseru Toyota  Maloti       89,381.00    89,381.00 89,381.00Local
            Motor Vehicle 3 (Fin. Mgr) NS             G004    Maseru Toyota  Maloti       89,381.00    89,381.00 89,381.00Local
            Office Equipment (FMIS)      NS           G006    Quadrant       Maloti      291,715.00 291,715.00 291,715.00Local
            Office Equipment (FMIS)      NS           G019    Quadrant       Maloti      237,600.00 237,600.00 237,600.00Local
            Office Equipment (EMU)       NS           G022    LFM            Maloti       18,614.00    18,614.00 18,614.00Local
            Motor Vehicle 4 (EMU)        NS           G023    Maseru Toyota  Maloti      275,928.02 275,928.02 275,928.02Local
Works       Rehabilitation of Botsabelo  ICB          CW001 Morlin           Maloti      799,591.50 648,226.77 648,226.77Local
            Hospital                                          Construction
            Maintenance Office/Stores    ICB          CW002 Thaabe Felix     Maloti      847,710.00 511,864.82 511,864.82Local
                                                              Construction
            Qoaling Filter Clinic        ICB          CW003 La Chaba         Rands       555,573.53 121,150.72 121,150.72Local
                                                              Construction




                                                                 - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/12/1998                     N/A




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/29/1999              13     Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Health Planner AfDB (1)
                                             Health Service Ireland AID
                                             (1)
                                             Health Economist (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Senior Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)
                                             Operations Analyst (1)
                                             Internal Auditor Ireland AID
                                             (1)
                                             RATIONAL PHARMA.
                                             Management/USAID/WB (1)
                                             Physical Planner (1)
                                             Architect (1)
                                             Health Sector Specialist/
                                             WHO/AFRO (1)
                                              CDS&R,WHO (1)

              04/23/2000                5    Team Leader (1)
                                             Health Economist (1)
                                             Senior Counsel (1)
                                             Financial Officer (1)
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)

 Supervision
              11/06/2000                3    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Health Economist (1)
                                             Senior Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1)

              04/25/2001                2    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Health Economist (1)
              10/30/2001                5    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Health Specialist (1)
                                             Health Planner, AfDB (1)
                                             Health Adviser, EU (1)
                                             Health, Ireland AID (1

              02/28/2002                3    Team Leader/Health (1)             S               S
                                             Architect (1)




                                              - 28 -

                                           Consultant Nutritionist (1))

               11/07/2002              3   Team Leader (1)                     S    S
                                           Health Specialist (1)
                                           Financial Management Specialist
                                           (1)

               06/02/2003              4   Team Leader (1)                     S    S
                                           Health Specialist (1)
                                           Operations Officer (1)
                                           Procurement Specialist (1)
                                           Health Economist (1)

               09/07/2003              4   Team Leader (1)                     S    S
                                            Health Specialist (1)
                                           Operations Officer (1)
                                           Health Financing (1)
               11/07/2003              6   Team Leader (1)                     U    S
                                           Health Specialist (1)
                                           Operations Officer (1)
                                           Health Finance Specialist (1)
                                           Country Office Liaison (1)
                                           Civil Works (1)
               05/13/2004              3   Team Leader (1)                     S    S
                                            Health Specialist (1)
                                           Operations Officer (1)

 ICR
               10/22/2004             6     Lead Health Specialist(1)          S    S
                                            Public Health Specialist
                                            (Team Leader) (1)
                                            Sr. Health Specialist
                                            ( Primary author) (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)
                                            Task Team Assistants (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         151.10                            433.90
  Appraisal/Negotiation                43.41                           131.80
  Supervision                        124.22                            472.30
  ICR                                  18.32                            68.70
  Total                              337.05                          1106.70




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Service Delivery




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

     Lending                                     HS     S     U       HU
     Supervision                                 HS     S     U       HU
     Overall                                     HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

     Preparation                                 HS     S     U       HU
     Government implementation performance       HS     S     U       HU
     Implementation agency performance           HS     S     U       HU
     Overall                                     HS     S     U       HU



NB: Borrower performance on the new six point rating is as follows:
i) Preparation Satisfactory
ii) Government implementation performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory
iii) Implementing agency performance is Satisfactory
iv) Overall Moderately Satisfactory




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1..  CAS of June 4, 1998
2.   Demographic health survey
3.   Baseline health survey
4.   Health information system
5.   Sentinel surveillance
6.   Public Sector Improvement and Reform Project
7.   Health Sector Reform Strategy
8.   Implementation Plan and budget for Phase I
9.   Strengthening Lesotho's Health care System (Bank ESW)
10.  HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan and Policy ( 1999)
11.  1996 Sectoral round table Consultation document
12.  Health and Social Welfare Sector Plan ( 1995/6 ­ 1999/0
13.  Health and Social Welfare policy _ Final Draft sep 21, 2003
14.  Economic Study of Referral health services in Lesotho: The future of QEII Hospital ­ i)Review
     of Findings and Recommendations (Boston University) ii) Executive Summary and Final
     report Vol. 1
15.  District health package ­ Final Report, June 2003
16.  The Finance manager report on the Financial Impact assessment*
17.  Towards a Health Financing Policy for Lesotho ­ Draft report by Gayle H. Martin June 2003
18.  First progress Report on Health Sector Reform Program ­ Jan 2000 ­ October 2000- By
     Planning Unit MOHSW
19.  Second Quarter Monitoring and evaluation Report 2003/2004
20.  Annual Joint Review: Second Progress report ­ Nov 2000- October 2001
21.  Third Annual Joint Review Nov 2002
22.  PAD May 11 2000
23.  DCA May 10, 2000
24.  Report on the Annual Joint Review meeting Nov 13-14, 2000
25.  Estate management Report Final Report October 8, 2002
26.  Phase I Implementation Schedules as at the end of Appraisal Dec 10, 1999
27.  Lesotho Health Sector Reform Plan March 2000
28.  Lesotho Health Sector Reform: Health and Social Welfare Strategic Action Plan 2000-2010
     ( Nov 2003)
29.  LAPCA ­ Administrative and management Support to the IDA HIV/AIDS Component ­ Progress
     Report covering May 2004 ­ September
30.  MOHSW Health Sector Reforms Phase I Completion Report (PCR) Draft zero October 2004
31.  Minutes of 5th six-weekly meeting between MOHSW Management and Development Partners
     August 10, 2004
32.  Health sector Reform Programme Review Paper ­ MOHSW November 2003.
33.  Performance Review of the Supplementary Emergency Financing Facility (SEFF)-
     September 2004
34.  Project Status Report #1 - October 4, 2000
35.  Project Status Report #2 - June 1, 2001
36.  Project Status Report #3 - December 20, 2001
37.  Project Status Report #4 - April 26, 2002
38.  Project Status Report #5 - December 30, 2002
39.  Project Status Report #6 - May 28, 2003
40.  Project Status Report #7 - July 7, 2003
41.  Project Status Report #8 - February 2, 2004
42.  Project Status Report #9 ­ November 9, 2004
43.  Work Plan 2004 - Pilot District Based HMIS in support of M&E, February 2004
44.  Monitoring and Evaluation Report: April ­ June 2004
45.  Mid term Review Report of 8th European Development Fund June 19, 2004
46.  Health management System- Strategic Plan 2004-2008




                                               - 32 -

47.  Map of district boundaries showing hospitals, private facilities (CHAL) and MOHSW facilities.
48.  Monitoring and Evaluation Strategic Plan ­ 2004- 2008
49.  Health Management Information System Guidelines Policy ­ August 2003
50.  Information Communication Technology Policy Guidelines ­ 2003
51.  Monitoring and Evaluation Policy Guidelines ­ October 2003
52.  Selected Indicators ­ Lesotho Health and Social Welfare Sector Reform Program
53.  Annual Joint Review Report - 2004/05
54.   Medium- Term Expenditure Framework 2005/08




                                              - 33 -

Annex 8: Government Contribution: Executive Summary of GOL's Program
Implementation Report - Health Sector Reform Phase I (2000-2005)

8.1.1     Introduction and Background

          The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in Lesotho embarked on a three-phase, 10-year
program of Health Sector Reforms starting in 2000 through 2009 to redress the (i) declining health and
social welfare indicators; (ii) reduced expenditures in health care and social welfare; and (iii) increasing
burden of the escalating HIV/AIDS epidemic on service delivery.

          The main goal of the 10-year health reform is to achieve a sustained increase in access to
quality preventive, curative and rehabilitative health services nation-wide. Ten critical indicators that
benchmark progress in achieving this goal were defined. The main objectives during the first phase of
the reforms (2000 -2005) were: (i) to establish institutional capacity that would enable the Ministry of
Health and Social Welfare to plan, implement and monitor a comprehensive sector reform program and
(ii) to expand the capacity of the public sector to respond to HIV/AIDS.

          A participatory approach was used to prepare a three-year comprehensive work plan (Phase I) to
enhance the capacity of the Ministry to implement the reforms. In this plan, two strategic priority areas
were defined: (i) strategies to improve the technical aspects of care delivery including definition of district
health package, infrastructure development and management, pharmaceuticals supply and
management, and strengthening social welfare; and (ii) strategies to improve the administrative and
managerial aspects that included human resource development and management, financing and
financial management, decentralization, donor coordination, and partnerships. Progression to Phase II
would be triggered by the successful achievement of 14 jointly stipulated indicators (Appendix 1).

8.1.2     The Adaptable Program Loan Approach

          The choice of APL and the division of the sector reform program into three phases with
predetermined triggers, which must be accomplished before moving up to the subsequent phase,
ensured a sustained improvement in implementation capacity. The design of the Phase I work plan took
cognizance of the relationship between the availability of finance and human resources and
improvement of service delivery. The plan also took into account the need to build efficient resource
management and budgeting systems in an environment of scarce resources. Another important factor is
the need for enabling policies and environment within which service planning and delivery could take
place. The phased approach also made room for restructuring the delivery system and the development
of new competencies to ensure convergence of policy and practice. On the other hand, the priority
interventions in Phase I focused on system building in an environment of declining service delivery. This
was seen as a significant limitation of the design: at the end of Phase I there was no significant
improvement in service delivery.

8.1.3      Achievement of the Objectives of Phase I

          The achievement of the main objectives of Phase I was demonstrated by the realization of all
the 14 triggers to Phase II (Annex 1). The MOHSW's capacity to manage the reforms was significantly
enhanced as evidenced by (i) the formulation and implementation of a comprehensive health policy; (ii)
strengthening its delivery systems; and (iii) development of a performance based multi-year plan and
budget that will constitute Phase II. However, efforts to link the health reforms with the public sector
reforms especially with regard to decentralization, personnel and financial management did not go
smoothly because of different ministerial paces and a weak inter-ministerial coordination. Although
capacity building will continue beyond Phase I, sufficient strides were made to enable the MOHSW carry
the process forward as detailed in Appendix 1 and summarized below.

A.         Financing and Financial Management




                                                     - 34 -

         Notable achievements in this area included: (i) development and implementation of a revised
FMIS; (ii) strengthening the financial management practices; and (iii) development of an integrated
three-year plan and budget that addresses priorities. Planned development of a financing strategy had
been deferred to the next phase.

B.       Decentralization

         With regards to decentralization, the following were achieved: (i) a consensus was reached on
the definition of districts as the basic health administrative unit; (ii) the MOHSW strategy for
decentralization was developed and piloted in three districts; and (iii) training and competence building
for DHMTs were initiated. Planned revitalization of the health boards had been deferred pending the
establishment of the Community Councils through the MOLG.

C.       Development of Essential Service Package

         Achievements here were linked to packaging of basic services needs based on: (i) the burden of
conditions or illnesses; (ii) availability of cost effective interventions; and ( iii) the extent to which the
outcome is a public good or has positive externalities. An essential service package addressing 80% of
the common problems was defined and currently undergoing costing.

D.       Human Resource Development and Management

         The main achievements were: (i) strengthening the human resource department to provide
leadership for HR reforms; (ii) assessment of the human resources needs; (iii) development of a 20-year
human resources strategic plan; and (iv) development of an integrated human resource management
information system.

E.       Pharmaceutical Supply and Management

         The main outputs achieved in this area were: (i) comprehensive assessment of the
pharmaceutical services; (ii) revision and dissemination of the National Medicines Policy; (iii)
development of tools to facilitate rationale prescription (STG and EML); and (iv) drafting of legislation ­
the National Medicines and the National Drug bills; (iv) conducting a drug awareness campaign; and (vi)
training and deployment of a number of pharmacy personnel.

F.       Social Welfare

         The main outputs in the area of social welfare were: (i) formulation of the Social Welfare Policy;
(ii) review of the Child Protection Act; (iii) enhancement of capacity through employment and training;
and (iv) development and implementation of community-based pilot projects in three districts. The
development of a Social Welfare Strategic Plan and conducting a disability survey had been deferred to
the next phase.

G.       Infrastructure Maintenance and Development

         The main outputs were: (i) creation of the Estate Management Unit (EMU) responsible for the
management and planning of infrastructure for the Ministry; (ii) development of standards, guidelines and
specifications for the sector infrastructure; (iii) construction, rehabilitation and upgrading of various health
facilities; and (iv) finalization of the MOHSW infrastructure master plan.

H.       Partner Coordination and Collaboration

         The main outputs were: (i) implementation of SEFF, effectively increasing GOL subvention to
CHAL by 15%; (ii) finalization of the MOU between GOL and CHAL; (iii) finalization and signing the MOU
between the MOHSW and RSA, effectively strengthening collaboration with South Africa; and (iv)



                                                       - 35 -

institutionalization of `Joint Management' of the HSR through joint milestones, 12 six -weekly meetings
between MOHSW and partners and five Joint Annual Review meetings
I.       HIV/AIDS

         The main outputs in this area included: (i) development and endorsement of a national HIV/AIDS
strategic plan; (ii) development of structures for coordination of HIV/AIDS activities at all levels ­
LAPCA/NAC at national level, District Aids Task Forces and HIV/AIDS Directorate at the MOHSW; (iii)
mobilization of the public and private sectors towards implementation of the strategic plan; and (iv)
mobilization of resources for HIV control ­ equivalent to 2% of each ministerial annual budgetary
allocations and US$34 million from The Global Fund.

L.       Monitoring and Evaluation

         The main outputs were: (i) conducting a baseline survey to define the starting point of the
reforms; (ii) defining the MOHSW M&E framework and establishing the unit responsible for M&E; (iii)
strengthening the HMIS; (iv) regular monitoring and review of Phase I; and (v) implementation of the
Demographic and Health Survey. The strengthening of the HMIS will continue in subsequent phases.

8.1.4     Lessons Learned

(i)       Leadership. In the course of Phase I the top leadership of the MOHSW changed five times
compromising the Ministry's role in steering the reforms. The health Planning and Statistical Department
(HPSD) was a stable unit and it rightly spearheaded the reforms. In the future, ownership of the reforms
should be more widespread across the sector to ensure accountability for results and to build up a pool of
champions for the process.

(ii)     Advocacy and Promotion of Reforms. The reform program needs to be top on the public agenda
for maximum results. A strategy for promotion of the reforms from the grass root levels will need to be
developed for subsequent phases.

(iii)    The Program Design. More emphasis was rightly put on system building with lesser attention on
the services delivery end. Combined and equal approach as proposed in the 2005-2006 ­ 2006-2007
plan and budget is the most cost beneficial and will increase the visibility of the reforms.


Project Facts Sheet




                                                    - 36 -

- 37 -

- 38 -

- 39 -

