RESTRICTED
1FILE   COPY jReport No. P-597
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESA DE ACUEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA
FOR THE BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
COLOMBIA
May 16, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANTK FOR RECOUSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT A.ND RECO1MTNDATION OF THE PRESIDaWT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EaqPRESA DE ACtEDUCTO Y ALCANTARILLADO DE BOGOTA
FOR THE BOGOTA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
COLOMBIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$1h.0 million to
Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota (EAAB).
PART I - HISTORICAIL
2.        Since early 1966, the Bank has been discussing with the EAAB a
project for the improvement and expansion of the Bogota Water Supply system.
Bank missions recommended that the EAAB prepare a long-range master plan on
which the selection of a first-stage project could be based. Such plan was
submitted in mid-1967, followed by a feasibility study on the proposed proj-
ect. An appraisal mission visited Colombia twice, the last visit being in
January/February, 1968. The Borrower and Government of Colombia were in-
formed that the loan would not be presented for approval by the Executive
Directors until an anpropriate tariff increase came into effect. This took
place on April 25, 1968.
3.        Negotiations on the proposed loan took place in Washington
April 11-18, 1968. EAAB was represented by Fir. Virgilio Barco, Mayor of
Bogota and President of the Board of Directors; Mr. Oscar Torres, General
Manager; and Mr. Eberto Jimenez, Secretary of Public Works of Bogota.  The
Government was represented by Mr. Jose Camacho, Minister Counselor of the
Colombian Embassy and Mr. Omar Botero of the Department of Planning.
14.       The proposed loan would bring the Bankts total lending to Colombia
to US$482.0 million (net of cancellations and excluding the proposed loan of
US$18.0 million for the Bogota Power Third Expansion program). In addition,
an IDA credit of US$19.5 million for highways was made in 1961. The fol-
lowing is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Colombia as
of April 30, 1968:



-2-
Loan/                                                   Amount (US$ Millions)
Credit                                                               Undis-
No.    Year Borrower                      Purpose      Bank   IDA   bursed
Fully disbursed
Total (less cancellations)                313.8
5     1961  Government                  Roads                19.5    1.1
345     1963  Acerias Paz del Rio, S.A.    Steel         30.0          6.h
369     1964 Empresas Publicas de
Medellin                    Power         45.0         28.2
448     1966  Government                  Agriculture    16.7         13.2
151     1966  Banco de la Republica        Industry      25.0         10.9
499     1967  Empresa Nacional de          Communica-
Telecomunicaciones          tions        16.0          15.2
502     1967  Instituto Colombiano de     Irriga-
Reforma Agraria             tion           9.0          9.0
Total (less cancellations)                  455.5  19.5   8).o
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                                 99.6
Total now outstanding                       355.9
Amount sold                 16.7
of which has been repaid   13.9              2.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA             353.1   19.5
Total undisbursed                            82.9   1.1   84.0
5.        Twenty-three loans have been completely disbursed and four
have been repaid in full. On the remainder, disbursements are proceeding
normally.
6.        Together with this report, I am submitting to the Executive
Directors a proposed loan of US$18.0 million to the Empresa de Energia
Electrica de Bogota for expansion of power generation and distribution in
the Bogota area. This loan, if made, would raise the Bank's total lending
in Colombia to US$500.0 million. In th3 next few months I expect to
present to the Executive Directors the following loans: a loan of about
US$16.0 million for Power Interconnection, a loan of about US$8.0 million
to the Government for Secondary Education, a loan of about US$16.0 million
to the Government for Highways, and a loan of US$15.0 million for Rail-
way Rehabilitaticn.
7.        IFC has made 21 investments and underwriting commitments in 13
enterprises in Colombia totalling US$114.7 million.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.
Borrower:            Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de
Bogota (EAAB).
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia.
Amount:               The equivalent in various currencies of
US$14.0 million.
Purpose:             To assist in financing the improvement and
expansion of the city of Bogota's water
supply system.
Amortization:         20 years, including 1-1/2 years of grace,
32 semi-annual repayments beginning on
December 1, 1972 and ending on June 1, 1988.
Interest rate:       6-1/4 percent.
Commitment charge:   3/b of 1 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Bogota Water
Supply Project"  (TO-639a) on the project is attached.
10.       Bogota, the capital of Colombia, is the principal manufacturing,
administrative and commercial center of the country and has a population of
about 2 million. With a rapidly growing population in the city and sur-
rounding area estimated at 7 percent per year over the past decade, the
demand for water has for the past five years exceeded the capacity of the
water supply system by an increasing margin. Water is rationed and the
shortage is felt particularly in the highly populated and industrial
southern sections of the city. In 1968, the average shortfall is estimated
to be about 15 to 20 percent, but is much higher during the dry seasons.
This project is the first major stage of a program to overcome this shortage.
However, some deficit is expected to continue until about 1977.
11.       Methods of correcting the deficit include the physical expansion
of the water supply system and provision of equipment to measure water use
and control wastage. The adoption of the tariff increase in April 1968,
was coupled with a new rate structure designed to reduce wastage, rcducing
the allowance for consumption under the minimum charge and introducing pro-
gressively higher charges for consumption in excess of the allowance.



12.       The EAAB is an autonomous public entity, established in 1955 and
owned by the Special District of Bogota. The Mayor of Bogota is the Presi-
dent of the Board of Directors which consists of two members appointed by
the Municipal Council, three members appointed by the banks which hold the
EAAB's bonds and a representative of the central bank (Banco de la Republica).
The General Manager is appointed by the Board.
13.       The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1971.
Its total cost is estimated at US$35.3 million equivalent, including
interest during construction. The principal feature of the project is the
Tibito II A Scheme. This scheme is the first stage of the long-range pro-
gram. It includes engineering and construction for:
(a) additions to the pumping and treatment facilities now
existing at Tibito;
(b) manufacture and installation of a large diameter pipe-
line from Tibito, to the north of the city, and through
the city to its southern limits;
(c) distribution system improvement and expansion.
In addition, included in the project are feasibility studies
and preparation of the final design for the next stage after the Tibito II A
project as well as studies on future projects in the long-range plan. Pro-
curement of maintenance and other equipment designed to improve the bor-
rowerts operation are also provided for.
14.       The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at
US$17.3 million equivalent, including interest during construction. Of
this sum, up to US$14.0 million would be from the Bank loan and not less
than US$3.0 million from supplier countries participating in joint financing
(described below). Foreign exchange to cover interest during construction
on the joint loans amounting to US$300,000 equivalent would be obtained by
the SAAB. The local currency component of US$18.0 million equivalent would
be provided by the borrower from several sources: They are primarily
(a) net cash generated internally, (b) equity contribution from the national
budget and other public entities, and (c) domestic loans. Total external
financing would cover about 50 percent of project costs (Bank loan up to
40 percent), and 50 percent would come from local sources.
15.       All contracts proposed for Bank financing are being awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding. Procurement is advanced
and as of May 1, 1968 several major contracts, including the one for the
water pipeline, had been awarded and were about to be signed. W4hile no
foreign currency expenditures on the construction part of the project had
been made as of that date, down payments may become due after May 1, 1968,
but prior to approval of the loan. It is proposed that the Bank reimburse
the EAAB for the foreign exchange component of such payments. It is also
proposed to reimburse the EAAB for the foreign exchange expenditures made
on engineering contracts up to one year prior to approval. These amounts
are not expected to exceed US$500,000 and US$100,000 respectively.



16.       The EAAB in the past several years has not been able to generate
the internal resources which would provide an adequate contribution to further
development.  While tariff increases have been put into effect to cope with
increasing operating costs, only a modest return was earned. The new tariffs
introduced in April 1968 together with a change in tariff structure, are
expected to result in an average rate billed of US$0.26 per 1000 gallons, an
increase of about 80 percent. This new average is still rather moderate as
compared to other major urban water supply systems. No further tariff ad-
justment is expected to be required until about 1971 when construction
should commence on the next stage of development.
17.       The EAAB and the Government would agree to take all appropriate
steps (including tariff adjustments) required to provide net revenues after
operating expenses sufficient to produce a reasonable rate of return on net
fixed assets in operation. It has been agreed that, on the basis of present
estimates of EAAB's financial requirements, a return of 5 percent on net
assets during the construction of the project and of at least 9 percent
thereafter would be required. On this basis, the EAAB should be able to
contribute substantial funds to financing its expansion. Pending intro-
duction of a satisfactory method of revaluation of assets of public utilities
generally, locally acquired assets will be revalued periodically using a cost
of living index and assets acquired abroad will be revalued on the basis of
the exchange rate between the Colombian peso and the U.S. dollar. The
adequacy of EAAB's tariffs would be reviewed quarterly and any necessary ad-
justments in the tariff structure would be introduced by the end of the fol-
lowing quarter. In addition EAAB would agree to revise and simplify its
tariff structure by June 30, 1971 in order to permit a more efficient use of
water.
18.       Arrangements have been made for the financing of this project on a
joint basis with supplier countries. The Memorandum on Jcint Financing of
Projects in Colombia and Mexico (JF 68-2, of January 24, 1968), which is
attached, agreed upon by the twelve countries, provides for the financing of
procurement in the participating countries for three Colombian projects in
accordance with the following formula: external financing of the imported
goods would be 50 percent by the Bank and 50 percent by the supplying country.
This would apply only to individual orders for imported goods of at least
US$200,000, provided that the accumulated value of such orders placed in the
country is at least US$1.0 million for each individual project.
19.       The proposed loan of US$1l.0 million takes into account contracts
already awarded on the basis of completed bidding. These contracts should
result in financing from participants of not less than US$3.0 million. Addi-
tional financing of up to anotherUS$3.0 million may result from these con-
tracts and from other contracts yet to be awarded. The Bank loan agreement
would contain provision for early cancellation of any excess amounts should
contracts eligible for joint financing be higher than this minimal joint
financing estimate of US$3.0 million.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1ENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Empresa de
Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota and the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Colombia and the Ban1 as well as a Report of tho



- 6 -
Committee, provided for in Article III, Section L (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
21.       These draft Agreements contain covenants normally included in
agreements for water projects. Particular attention is drawn to the pro-
visions requiring the Borrower and the Guarantor to use their best efforts
to secure other loans (under the joint financing arrangements) for the
project (Section 5.11 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.06 of the Guarantee
Agreement); the Bank would be entitled to reduce the loan by any amount in
excess of the foreign exchange requirements of the Project, after taking
into account the joint financing arrangements made (Section 2.08 of the
Loan Agreement). The Bank would also agree to adjust, within limits, the
Amortization Schedule for the loan to reflect the amortization of other
loans under the joint financing arrangements so as to provide an aggregate
amortization of the external financing for this Project reasonably approxi-
mate to that which would be normally applicable to a Bank loan of the same
maturity (Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement).
22.       The Borrower would undertake not to incur, without the consent
of the Bank, debt with a maturity of a year or more in excess of the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost of the Project unless its net revenues for the
12 months prior to the incurrences of the debt cover at least 1.5 times
its maximum future debt service in any year (Section 5.07 of the Loan Agree-
ment).
23.       The Borrower and the Guarantor would agree to take all appropriate
action required to maintain the Borrower's revenues at a level sufficient
to produce a reasonable return on the Borrower's net fixed assets in opera-
tion (Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the Guarantee
Agreement). Detailed arrangements for the implementation of the undertaking
concerning revenues and tariffs referred to in paragraph 17 will be em-
bodied in an exchange of letters.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
2b.        A section on the Colombian economy is contained in the Presi-
dent's Report on the Proposed Loan to Banco de la Republica in Colombia
for the Development Finance Companies Project (P-592) of May 2, 1968.
PART VI - CO0MPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 7 -
PART VII - RECOMIENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the folloking
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de
Bogota (Bogota Water Supply Project) in the amount of the
equivalent of US$14,000,000 to be guaranteed by the Republic
of Colombia.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota, to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia,
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million United
States dollars (US$l1,ooo,ooo), to mature on and prior to June 1, 1988,
to bear interest at the rate of six and one-quarter percent (6-1/4%) per
annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be sub-
stantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of Loan Agreement (Bogota Water Supply Project) between the Bank and
Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Bogota, and the form of Guarantee
Agreement (Bogota Water Supply Project) between the Republic of Colombia
and the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 16, 1968



