Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rept No. 12279
PROJECT COMPLJRTOII R    TPORT
ZAIRE
NOKRTEAb  -URAL DEVEOPMT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1325-ZR)
AUGUST 25, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12279
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a rsticted distribution and may be usd by recipients only In the perforomae of
dhir offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE ELATES
Currency Unit: Zaire
US$1.00
xm EtdYale
1983                    13
1984                   36
1985                   50
1986                   60
1987                   112
1988                   187
1989                  381
1990                  719
1991                63,673
12/1992            1.7 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACOOPELI            Association of Livestock Producer Cooperatives in Ituri (Association
des Cooperatives d'Eleveurs de l'Ituri)
BPI                 Project Management Unit (Bureau du Plojet Ituri)
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
DAGP                Directorate for the General Administration of Projects (Direction de
l'Administration Generale des Projets)
FAC                 French Ministry of Cooperation (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
MARD                Ministry of Agricultural and Rural Development
ONDE                National Livestock Development Office (Office National pour le
Developpement de l'Elevage)
OR                  Roads Office (Office des Routes)
PMKO                Eastern Kasai Maize Project (Projet Mals du Kasai Oriental)
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PRODEL              Association o'f Livestock Producers (Promotion pour la Defense de
l'Elevage)
SNRDA               National Rural Roads Service (Service National de Routes de Desserte
Nationales)
SNV                 National Extension Service (Service National de Vulgarisation)
SSE                 Project monitoring and evaluation service (Service de Suivi et
Evaluation)
T&V                 Training and visit system of extension
FISCAL YEAR OF GOVERNMENT
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433       FOR OMCI..L USE ONLY
U.S.A.
nffla of DiraotorG.nera
Operations Evaluation
August 25, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECITIVE DlRECTORS AND TlJHE JS
SUBJECI: Project Completion Report on Zaire
Nortbeast Rural Development Project (Credit 1325-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zaire: Northeast Rural Development
Project (Credit 1325-ZR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
The Northeast Rural Development Project was a continuation of the relatively
succesfil Ituri Livestock Development Project (Cr. 0697-ZR). It was designed to build on the
existing Project Management Unit and Livestock Producers' Cooperative Union and to extend
activities to crop production through the development of crop farmer associations. Livestock
production activities proceeded satisfactorily, particularly animal health measures. Cost recovery
for inputs was increased by the livestock cooperatives during the project and they remained active
at the time of the PCR mission, but their ability to operate without external support is considered
uncertain. The use of cooperatives to serve crop farmers proved to be infeasible and little was
achieved. Thus, the project outcome is rated unsatisfactory, institutional development as partial
and sustainability as unlikely. Despite the fact that the crop component never really got off the
ground, the project was generally rated as problem free until misprocurement came to light late in
the implementation period.
The Borrower views the project in a somewhat more favorable light than the PCR,
given that the livestock cooperatives, established under the first project, continued to operate
satisfactorily. It also considers the Bank should have acted sooner to avoid the slippage in the
crop component, and also that the Bank was at fault in the misprocurement since it paid the
suppliers for excessive amounts of materials. Foliowing this incident procurement procedures for
projects in Zaire were tightened.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation and
outcomes. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This documennt has a rested dtribton and may be used by recipints only In the performance of
their offlal du. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout Word Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
ZAIRE
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1325-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................... iii
PART I: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ............  I
Project Identity ........                                                             1
Background .......  1
Project Objectves and Descriptions .............................    2
Project Desp and Orga ion  ...............................    3
ProjectImplementation .....................................    3
Project Results ..............            ............................    5
Econoic Rate of Retn  ...................................    8
Sustainability .     ..........................................    8
Performance of Borrower ...................................    8
Performance of BPI ...........             ............................    9
Performance of the Bank  ...................................    9
Performance of Consultants ..................................    9
Project Relationships ......................................   10
P-oject Documentation and Data ...............................  10
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                          ...  11
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................   17
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .......................  17
Table 2. Project Timetable ..................................   18
Table 3. Disbursements ....................................   19
Table 4. Project Costs and Financing  ...........................  21
Table 5. Implementation Indicators .............................  22
Table 6. Status of Covenants .................................  26
Table7. UseofBankResources  ..............................  29
Maps: IBRD 16239R: Existing and Proposed Development Activities
IBRD 16240R: The Project Area



PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
ZAtE
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMUENT PROJECT
(CR. 1325-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Northeast RuW  Development
Project, for which IDA Credit 1325-ZR in the amount of SDR 12.3 million (US$13.0 million)
was approved on February 15, 1983. The credit was closed on April 30, 1991, one year and
four monts behind schedule. The last disbursement took place on May 15, 1991, at which dtme
the undisbursed balance of SDR 2.5 million (US$2.7 million) was cancelled. Co-financing was
provided by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Coop4radon (PAC), In the amount of US$2.3 million,
and the Canadian Intational Development Agency (CIDA), in the amount of US$8.5 million.
At the time of credit closing, the acual FAC contribution was etmated at US$2.3 million and
the acual CIDA contribution at US$8.5 million.
Ihe Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and m were prepared by the Agricultural
Operations Division of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region of the
World Bank. Government's comments on the PCR form Part 1. In addition, the Borrower
prepared a project completion report of its own, which is available in project files. The co-
fiaciers were asked to comment on the PCR, but no comments were received.
information in the PC' ,s based, intealia on discussion with Bank staff associated with
the project, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, intea   A memoranda and a completion
report prepared by the implementing agency (Bureau du Projet Itri).



PROJECT COMPLEIION B1IPORT
ZAnRE
NORTBEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1325ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Agriculture Is vital to Zaire's economy. At the time of project preparation in 1980/81,
about 70-75% of the population wrs employed in the agricultural sector. However, agricultural
production had declined significantly from pre-independence levels, as a result of inadequate and
often counterproductive Government policies, as well as weak or non-existent agricultural
services. In 1981, the Government defined a new agricultural strategy, which aimed to achieve
food self-sufficiency, through the intensification of production in high potential and high
population areas of the country, one of which was the Ituri region. The Northeast Rural
Development Project was a continuation of the relatively successful Ituri Livestock Development
Project (Cr. 0697-ZR), which was the second livestock project supported by the Bank in Zaire,
and the first to address traditional livestock production.
Objectives and Des ription
2.    Project objectives were (a) to fiurther increase livestock production and to begin increasing
foodcrop production, thereby improving smallholders' incomes; (b) to strengthen rural
development institutions; and (c) to support the Government's efforts to implement adequate
agricultural policies. The main instrument through which this was to be done, was through
strengthening the cooperative movement. Implementation was expected over 7 years, at a cost
of US$30.2 million. The project was to be managed by the existing Project Management Unit
(Bureau de Projet Ituri, BPI), which was established under the first project, and was to keep its
current staff and work force. The Livestock Producers' Cooperative Union (ACOOPELI) was
to be responsible for the distribution of veterinary products and agricultural inputs, for the pilot
marketing activities and for the management of dipping stations. Key management posts were
to be occupied by expatriate technical assistants (provided by the French Government) to be
replaced by national staff during the implementation period. Canadian technical assistance was
to provide technical and managerial support to ACOOPELI, as it had done under the first project.
3.    The project included features of other integrated rural development projects concurrendy
under way elsewhere in Zaire, such as a heavy dependence on extemal financing for salaries and
recurrent expenses, and a substantial degree of autonomy for project management and
independence from the civil service enabling projects to pay higher salaries and offer better terms
of service than the administration. It was recognized early on that the long distance and difficult
communications between the project and the capital would make it difficult for the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development to exercise close control over project management.



iv
mpleiuentatlou Experience
4.    The design of the project rested heavily on the assumption that the successful approach
to livestock production under the flrst projec - providing veterinary scrvices, promoting livestock
owners associations and makiDng inputs available, to be subsequently distributed through such
associations to livestock famers at cost - could also be made to work for crop production. What
was not sufficiently appreciated, was that the sociological differences between livestock and crop
farmers would make this mitch more difficult. While livestock farmers were a relatively small
but powerful group commanding large tracts of land, masses of crop farmers existed, occupying
small plots of land on which they were essntially producing crops for their own subsistence.
Also, among the latter group, no history existed of forming cooperatives for inpit use or
marketing of produce. As a result, the project unit - which was continued from the first project -
showed litlle enthusiasm initially for expanding its services to crop farmers, and limited itself
to on-farm research (crop trials) in the fist 2-3 years. When afterwards, the unit did move
ahead, the same approach was followed as with the livestock farmers: crop farer asociations
were set up with extensiun or cooperathe agents assigned to each of them, and emphasis was put
on extension messages that required the   of cash inputs (implements, improved seeds, etc.).
S.    Loose financial controls led to serious misappropriations in 1984 (para. 12.1) and
procurement problems in 1988 (para. 5.6), which external auditors had failed to detect, but which
were detected by IDA supervision missions. These events, combined with isufficient
Government counterpart funding, forced the exte    financiers to withhold a large part of their
funding in the last two years of the project.
6.    Actual project costs are esthrated at US$24.1 million, 80% of the original project
estimates. IDA funded US$11.8 million of project costs against US$13.0 million estimated at
appraisal. Total funding by FAC and CIDA is etimated at US$2.3 million and US$8.5 million
respectively against US$3 million and US$10 million estimated at appraisal. Government
financed US$1.5 million against US$3.2 million estimated at appraisal. Part of the reasons for
the lower than estimated project cost are devaluation of the local currency and increased
purchasing power of the foreign exchange contributions, as well as the important slow-down in
project activities after 1989, following procurement irtegularities, a reorientation of project
activities and inadequate Government recurrent cost funding.
Results
7.    The crop component, the major innovation of the project, failed to produce the expected
results. The crop farmers' association approach proved very costly (extension ratios averaged
80 farmers per extension worker, compared to about 300 for the national extension service),
reached only a fraction of the target population (5,000 farmers compared to 120,000 farmers
estimated at appraisal), and met with little success (crop farmers were either unable or unwilling
to buy inputs).
8.    The project's livestock component fared much better than the crop component. Animal
health services, in particular, reached 99% of the target population, and cattle and calf mortality
rates were lower than estimated at appraisal. Some of the new initiatives, such as common
pasture improvement and land titling, failed to reach their initial objectives (only 7,000 ha actual
versus a target of 350,000 ha). It is uncertain, however, whether animal health achievements will
turn out to be sustainable. A substantial part of the overheads of the livestock owners' apex-
cooperative (ACOOPELI) was paid for from external financing, but in the last years of the



v
project, this was cut back forcing greater efficiency and increasing rates of cost recovery. Tne
cost of procurement and transport of cash inputs to this remote area is quite high and input
pricing to producers contained a subsidy element under the project. If adequate cost recovery
and greater operating efficiency is maintained by ACOOPELI, it is likely that the livestock
component will show a satisfactory rate of return. Nevertheless, with the failure of the crop
production component, it is likely that the overall rate of return of the project will be
unsatisfactory. Because of the paucity of data, the economic rate of return could not be
estimated.
Sustabilty
9.    At an estimated cost of $163 per annum  per livestock owner during project
implementation, BPI would not be able to continue to provide the services to which local herders
became accustomed without extervl assistance. However, both BPI and ACOOPELI applied cost
recovery policies for distribution of inputs and vaccines when counterpart funding was reduced
in the late 1980s and continuation of these principles could help the livestock cooperatives
through the difficult post-project period. Significant changes in the recommendation for tick
control and cattle dipping and spraying have reduced costs of disease control to livestock owners
and can be considered as a long term sustainable project benefit.
10.   However, with the completion of external financing, )PI will not be able to function at
the same level as before, especially as conditions for Government funding, already mixed during
project implementation, have considerably worsened. Thus, the cooperative associations will
basically have to survive on their own strength. They were still active at the time of the
completion mission, although at reduced level; their continued existence is uncertain.
Lessons Leamed
11.   The main lessons from the project are the following:
(a)    a project design successful for certain groups of farmers is not necessarily
applicable to others. Before launching follow-up projects that include a new
target population, socio-economic surveys testing farmers response are a
necessary part of preparatory work, and should be applied in pilot activities
before major financing decisions are taken;
(1)   the set-up of an independent project unit to compensate for the weaknesses of
existing Government services has not proved to be a feasible alternative, as it
caused management problems and tense relations with the local administration,
but most importantly as it was ultimately not sustainable financially. This lesson
was learnt at the same time in similar projects elsewhere in Zaire; and
(c)   supervision missions should give close attention to financial accounts even when
project audit reports give unqualified clearance of such accounts.
12.   ITe lessons on methodology of approaching small crop farmers, and on the set-up of
project units, have been taken into account in the design of subsequent projects. Emphasis is now
being given to reinforcement of Government services rather than special project units and the
extension methodology has changed to the Training and Visit approach, which relies on the



ji
success of extension messages with target farmers in order to subsequendy have them adopted
on a large scale. This way, the extension service can cover a much larger farmer population than
with the approach Implementd under the project.



I
PROJECT COMPLElnON REPORT
ZAnRE
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
(CR. 132S-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TIlE BANKS PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Projec Name:        Northeast Rural Development Project (turi UI)
Credit Number:      1325-ZR
Region:             Africa
Country:            Zaire
Sector:             Agriculture
Subsector:          Rural Development
2.    Background
2.1   Sector development objectives. Agriculture is vital to Zaire's economy. At the time
of project preparation in 1980181, about 70-75% of the population was employed in the
agricultural sector. However, agriculural production had declined significanty from pre-
independence levels, as a result of inadequate and often counterproductive Govemment policies,
as well as weak or non-existent agricultural services. In 1981, the Government defined a new
agricultural strategy, which aimed to achieve .ood self-sufficiency, through the intensification of
production in high potential and high population areas of the country, one of which was the Ituri
region.
2.2   Policy context and linages with sector policy objectives. The Northeast Rural
Development Project was an important component of the Government's agricultural strategy to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodcrops and meat. The project was a continuation of the relatively
successful Ituri Livestock Development Project (Cr. 0697-ZR), which was the second livestock
project supported by the Bank in Zaire, and the first to address traditional livestock production.
The principal obstacles to livestock development were animal disease, marketing difficulties
resulting from the country's poor infrastructure, and changes of policy towards the sector which
disrupted existing production and marketing arrangements.
2.3   Ituri Livestock Development ProJect (Cr. 0697-ZR). Implementation of the first
livestock project was satisfactory. Most of the main objectives were achieved, and in one
important respect, the establishment of livestock owners' associations and a cooperative federation
which were intended to provide the institutional framework for sustained long-term development,
the project went fiuther than had been envisaged at appraisal. The project su :ceeded in setting
up an effective veterinary service which provided vaccination, tick control and therapeutic support
for catle-owners; it made a start on pasture improvement; marketing infrastructure was



2
strengthened; and input supplies and extension sevices for producers were organized. An
effective project unit was set up. Total prject cost amounted to US$16.4 million.
2.4   Tbe project's achievements were the more remarkable in view of the difficult
circumstances in which It was implemented, including civil unrest, unreliable communications and
supply lines, the severe shortage of local funds, rapid inflation, and an exchange of currency
notes which eliminated overnight the savings of livestock owners' associations. Unfortunately,
the generally encouraging record was marred by several instances of misuse of project fimds.
2.5    At the time of the project audit, the economic impact of the project could not yet be
measured with certainty, but the evidence was sufficient to confirm that the project brought  but
an Increase In cattle production, principally through improvements to animal health. Key
production parameters improved, and estimated incremental output of meat and milk exceeded
appraisal expectations. The re-estimaed economic r.te of retr of the project was well above
15%. The importance of generating project benefits that could be sustained was recognized from
the beginning, and significant progress was made in this respect through substantial staff training,
establishment of the Ituri Project Unit, and setting up the structure of farmer associations and the
cooperative federation.
3.    Project Objectives and Descriptions
3.1   The Northeast Rural Development Project was designed as part of a long-term
development program for the area and as a continuation of the Ituri Livestock Project (Cr. 0697-
ZR). The second phase project took into account the fact that livestock producers represeted
less than 10% of the farming families in Ituri and included resources to help develop foodcrop
production. It also recognized that attainment of long-term development objectives depended on
the building of strong local institutions to provide effective services to farmers. Accordingly, its
objectives were (a) to increase livestock and foodcrop production, thereby increasing
smallholders' incomes; (b) to strengthen farmer associations; and (c) to support the Government's
efforts to elaborate more adequate agricultural policies. The Project thus continued to provide
support to livestock producers and to strengthen their cooperative movement but also included
new development activities in support of crop production.
3.2   The implementation period was estimated to be 7 years and the cost was expected to be
US$30.2 million. The project included the following components:
(a)    A program for the rehabilitation of veterinary and animal production services,
infrastructure and the provision of veterinary products;
(b)    A program to provide extension services and agricultural inputs to develop
production of foodcrops and smallholder coffee;
(c)    Human health services;
(d)    A basic data study on the major livestock diseases and agricultural activities, to
set up a program to monitor and evaluate the impact of project activities;
(e)    Other studies, training, pilot activities and trials, including limited assistance to
fisheries and marketing;



3
(t)    Selective maintenance and rehabilitation of Infrastructure such as roads and
bridges; and
(g)    Technical assistance to the Project management unit and to the Association of
Livestock Producer Cooperatives (ACOOPELI).
4.    iroject Design and Organization
4.1   ProJect design Included continued support for animal health and livestock development
activities starwd under the first Ituri Livestock Project. Organization and management was to be
a continuation of the first phase project, with the addition of an agricultural department attached
to the project unit (Bureau du Projet Ituri, BPI). ACOOPELI was to be invited to join the sub-
regional consultative committee, which was supposed to coordinate Project actvities. The
livestock component drew from the experience of the previous project. The crops program was
to be implemented in coajunction with BPrs extension and training Department and with third
parties such as the British American Tobacco (BAT) company, which was operating an effective
agricultural extension program for tobacco in the sub-region.
4.2    BPI was to keep its current staff and work force, under the general supervision of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD). ACOOPELI would be responsible for
the distribution of veterinary products and agricultural inputs, for the pilot marketing activities
and for the management of dipping stations. Key management posts in BPI were to be occupiel
by expatriate technical assistance (provided by the French Government) to be replaced by national
staff as soon as possible. Canadian technical assistance was to provide technical and managerial
support to ACOOPELI.
4.3    After initial clarification of minor differences between the French Fonds d'Action et de
Coopdration (FAC) and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) on assignment
of technical assistance staff, and between BPI and ACOOPELI on the roles and responsibilities
of the two agencies supported by the project, organization and execution of the project proceeded
as anidcipated at appraisal. Following the successful experience of the first project, with a
considerable degree of financial and administrative autonomy and with a strong team of five
technical assistants, BPI was poised in 1983 to continue to make a significant contribution to
agricultural and livestock productinn in the northeast of Zaire.
4.4   The project included features of other integrated rural development projects under way
elsewhere in Zaire, such as the North Shaba and Eastern Kasai Maize (PMKO) projects, and the
Mweka rural development project in Western Kasai. These features included a heavy dependence
upon external financing for salaries and for recurrent expenses, a substantial degree of autonomy
for project management and an independence from the existing civil service enabling the projects
to pay higher salaries and offer better tems of employment than the civil service.
5.    Project Implenentation
5.1    The main divergence between planned and actual implementation of the project objectives
was the poor performance of the crop production component of the project. Concern with project
management in the early years to ensure the continuation of the satisfactory performance of the
first project distracted attention from the new agricultural production component. The delays in



4
the recruitment of the technical advisor to the crop production service Leld up progress during
the first two years. After obtaining positive results from field trials and defining appropriate
extension messages, the project limited its activities to working with some 60 farmer associations,
whose numbers never exceeded more than 800 farm families in all - a mere fraction of the
120,000 farmers which the project had been intended to reach by its final year. When
counterpart funds fell short, it was the crop production component which was cut back and the
training element of the training and viskt approach was abandoned for two years in mid-project
cycle due to lack of funds.
5.2   In an attempt to resuscitate the crop production component in 1988, the Bank intensified
its technical supervision of the project, but this coincided with the discovery of a series of
procurement irregularities, which clouded the reputation of the project and compromised the
cofinanciers' confidence in project management (para. 5.6). By the time a decision was taken
to incorporate the project activities in the Pilot Extension Project (Cr. 2096-ZR), the latter was
already too heavily committed to be able to give the sub-region the needed support.
5.3    At project appraisal, it was envisaged that part of the incremental meat production from
the project would be marketed In Kinshasa, thus saving foreign exchange on imported meats.
Following the liberalization measures of 1983, imports of meat from Europe and South America
sharply increased. This, combined with difficulties caused by the poor state of the airstrip at
Bunia, virtually ruled out Kinshasa as a realistic market. Most of the meat was therefore sold
on the North Kivu, Kisangani and Uele markets.
5.4    At appraisal, satisfactory execution of the agricultural component was considered low risk
since the objectives were straightforward, the approach and the instruments were proven, and the
phasing was realistic. On the other hand, interference by Government in price policies was
considered a risk, which was reduced when the Government adopted a policy of price
liberalization nation-wide. However, this did not prevent interference by local authorities in price
fixing, wbich created difficulties for meat marketing and low returns to livestock owners.
Recurrent shortages of foreign exchange were resolved by the availability of Canadian support
for the importation of veterinary medicines. Interruptions in counterpart funding from Kinshasa
was not mentioned as a risk in the Staff Appraisal Report, but became a major reason for the
curtailment of specific project activities.
5.5    Considerable autonomy was accorded to project management in the early years, given the
distance which separated Ituri from Kinshasa and the problems of communication with such a
remote area. Irregularities by the expatriate project administrative and financial director and
other local staff were revealed, but reaction from Kinshasa to reports of these irregularities was
slow. No disciplinary action was taken against the staff involved and only after the Bank
requested action against implicated project staff were they transferred to other Government
agencies. At that point, the Ministry also reverted to central control of major expenses by the
Directorate for the General Administration of Projects (DAGP).
5.6   Procurement.  In 1989, a supervision mission reported on serious anomalies in
procurement procedures. The mission discovered that for a series of procurements in 1988,
tender documents were not sent to IDA, limited international bidding was used instead of
international competitive bidding, lists of suppliers were not sent to IDA for approval and bid
awards were not always made to the lowest evaluated bidders. In addition, quantities of items
ordered far exceeded quantities approved in the 1988 work program. Because goods were
packaged in lots with a value of less than US$100,000 each, which was below the prior review



5
threshold, disbursement requests were routinely honored by IDA. In this manner, US$1.1
million was disbursed. After review, IDA decided that in order to regularize accounts, no further
payment would be made on goods and equipment purchased by the project in 1988 and that no
goods for the extension service (for whom the majority of the orders had been placed) would be
eligible for IDA fnancing during 1989. In addition, the Development Credit Agreement was
"aended to prevent a recurrence (para. 5.8). IDA supervision missions suggested to project staff
that excess goods that were procured in 1988 could be sold at cost in order to obtain the
necessary funds for project activities. No excess goods were sold, however, and no plan has
been developed for their appropriate disposal.
5.7   Project Costs and Flnanclng. Actual project costs are estimated at US$24.1 million,
80% of the original project estimates. IDA funded US$11.8 million of project costs against
US$13.0 million estimaed at appraisal. Total funding by FAC and CIDA is estimated at US$2.3
million and US$8.5 million respectively against US$3 million and US$10 million estimated at
appraisal. Government financed US$1.5 million against US$3.2 million estimated at appraisal.
Part of the reasons for the lower than estimated project cost are devaluation of the local currency
and increased purchasing power of the foreign exchange contibutions, as well as the important
slow-down in project activities after 1989, following procurement irregularities, a reorientation
of project activities and inadequate Government recurrent cost funding.
5.8    Disbursenents. After some minor initial delays, disbursements attained levels estimated
at appraisal through 1989. The credit was closed on April 30, 1991, after a four month extension
to allow for an orderly closing of project activities (final payment of salaries to project employees
on contract and the 1990 audit). Two amendments were made to the credit agreement. The first,
dated July 11, 1986, concerned the establishment of a revolving fund (special account) in the
amount of US$340,000 at a commercial bank and the financing of fuel from the credit. The
second, dated October 21, 1988, reduced the threshold for Bank prior review from US$100,000
to US$35,000 and made changes in the procurement procedures. Following these measures and
the decision to declare extension activities ineligible for IDA financing in 1989, disbursements
slowed to a triclde during the final 18 months of project execution.
6.    Project Results
6.1    General. The human health services and studies, pilot activities and trials components
largely achieved their objectives. Reporting on project activities was satisfactory. The veterinary
and anima production, infrastructure and technical assistance components of the project were
only partially satisfactory, while achievements under the crop production component were largely
unsatisfactory.
6.2    Veterinary and Animal Production Services and Infrastructure components. The
impact of the veterinary and animal production services component of the project was satisfactory
in achieving physical targets. However, in view of the high costs of services provided by BPI,
production objectives do not appear to be sustainable. Ihe population of catde in the project area
reached 418,000 head in 1990, just short of 420,000 targeted at appraisal. Mortality in both
adults and calves in 1990 was below expected levels (3.5% and 8.5% respectively against 5%
and 20% projected). Distribution of hand pumps for tick control and the systematic deworming
of cate herds contributed significantly to this result. However, the recurrence of brucellosis and
the increase of tuberculosis and other diseases for which treatment was not available led to a drop
in fertility and birth rates from 68% in 1983 to barely 42% in 1990. Recommendations to reduce



6
the frequency of dipping cattle were introduced following a report by a consultant and
considerably reduced the csts of thbis form of parasite control.
6.3    The vaccination canpaigns against blacldeg and rinderpest were generally well conducted.
Vacciation against blacldeg was assured throughout the second phase project with coverage of
between 70%-75% of the catte population aually, except for 1985 and 1986 (67% coverage
for thes  two years) due to increases in the price of the vaccine to livestock owners. Rindepest
vaccination was carried out between 1985 and 1989 with coverage varying between 62% and
76% of the herd, except for 1988 when coverage dropped to 49% due to shortage of vaccines
and the inroduction of payment for these vaccines, which were previously free. In 1985, an
outbreak of foot and mouth disease was quicldy curtailed by vaccination and a further outbreak
was controlled the following year by quarantine and control of herd movements. BPI staff and
management were co;mnmended for their rapid action to control this disease. Genetic improvement
through castration of bulls was 14% above projections by 1990 and some 5,500 unproductive
females were slaughtered annually during the project period. The program for the sale of
improved bulls and for public bulling stations was abandoned after 1987, as a measure to control
the spread of brucellosis.
6.4   Little progress was made on pasture improvements. Problems were encountered in
attributingtitles to livestock owner associations (PRODELs) for collectivepastures. Total pasture
land for which boundaries were drawn only reached 115,000 hectares or 33% of original
projections. Pastures for which titles were actually obtained and distributed covered less than
7,000 hectares or a mere 2 % of the 350,000 hectares originally envisaged. Administrative delays
and the distance between the regional capital (Kisangani) and the project area were pardy to
blame, as was the pressure brought to bear by local influential land and catde owners to slow
down the process of registration. Some progress was made in the establishment of fodder
pastures and the distribution of improved fodder grasses. Seed bed nurseries were also
established for eucalyptus, cyprus and sisal trees (for demarcation).
6.5   Extension of animal husbandry and animal health practices was assured by regular
meetings between groups of livestock owners and the veterinary agents employed by the
PRODELS. The frequency of meetings fell off after 1988, due to the shortage of recurrent cost
funding from government. They were supplemented by rural radio programs designed by the
project and transmitted by the local station. The project monitoring unit estimated the adoption
rate of the three principal animi health messages (blacideg control, worming and tick control)
at over 70?',, although the rate of adoption of pasture hygiene and parasite control messages was
considerably lower (12%).
6.6   Provision of Extension Srvices and Agricultural Inputs for Fooderop Development.
Activities under the crop husbandry component were delayed and started only after the arrival
of an expatriate agronomist in 1984. Activities during the first two years concentrated on the
establishment of adaptive research trials and the establishment of five seed farms. Suitable crop
varietiee were identified and the crop production division of BPI started working with some 30
existing farmer associations in 1986. Eight animal traction stations were set up but this number
soon dwindled to three, with a mere 23 oxen trained during the entire project period and no more
than eight pairs distributed to farmers by 1990. The impact of the crop husbandry component
was also very limited. Initially, too much emphasis was placed on reaching farmers by the rural
radio broadcast service, which had been relatively successful for the diffusion of livestock
messages, but which was ineffective for small scale farmers, most of whom had no access to a
radio. Between 1986 and 1988, only 5 extension staff, supported by 5 cooperative development



7
agents worked with a total of about 800 farmers. In 1988, a joint supervision mission
recommended a significant increase in the number of extension staff with the objective of
covering 10-15 associations, of about 30 farmers each, per agent. This recommendation received
little follow-up. In 1989, it was proposed that the project mobilize the services of some 40
extension agents of the Ministry of Agriculture working under the sub-regional inspectorate and,
in conjunction with the National Extension Service (SNV), adopt the modified Training and Visit
(l&V) system of extension, which was being applied with success elsewhere in Zaire with the
help of the IDA financed Pilot Extension Project (Cr. 2096-ZR). Unfortunately, due to already
heavy commitments elsewhere in the country, the SNV was unable to mobilize staff to launch the
extension program in the project area and the project closed with only about 5,000 farm families
having benefitted from intensified extension senrices, compared to the 120,000 projected at
appraisal.
6.7   Foodcrop husbandry took second place to livestock production objectives and although
the project started with sound intentions (distributing agricultural Inputs and staring local trials
and seed production), the decision to imitate the successful livestock development program by
limiting extension to working with associations seriously impeded progress on this important
component. By the time there was agreement on the reorientation of the extension approach, the
project had become bogged down in financial and procurement difficulties, which led to a marked
slowdown in available finding and the decision not to extend the closing date.
6.8 Human Health Services. The project funded a medical dispensary for project staff. The
service provided urgent medical care, which had a beneficial effect on general morale, even when
^unds to pay monthly salaries were delayed from Kinshasa.
6.9   Basic Data Study and NMonltoring and Evaluation. Basic data studies on livestock
diseases were carried out satisfactorily both by external consultants and by the project's
monitoring and evaluation service (SSE). The study to detemine the impact of dipping led to
changes in the recommendations for tick control and to significant economies for livestock
owners. SSE failed to collect data on crop production.
6.10 Other Studies, Training, Pilot Activities and Trials. A number of studies were
launched to establish ways of improving marketing of livestock and crop products but received
little follow-up. The results of a base data study on the rural environment carried out by the crop
production service was never published. Training activities at the level of field staff were
seriously curtailed in 1985 and 1986 due to lack of Government funding. Higher level project
staff benefitted from a considerable number of external training visits.
6.11   Selective Maintenance and Rehabilitation of nrastruture. The construction of some
33 houses, dispensaries, rural slaughterhouses and stores was completed more than 2 years behind
schedule. The contractor encountered financial difficulties during the course of the contract and
delays in transporting materials to the building sites. However, the 33 units were completed to
the satisfaction of project management. No buildings were started for the crop development
component. This is furher evidence of the lack of priority accorded to this component. The
rural roads component, financed separately by the Government, the FAC and the National Rural
Roads Service (SNRDA) only completed 277 km out of the 700 km of road maintenance
envisaged at appraisal, due to irregular fimding and serious degradation of rural roads, which
became too badly degraded for labor-intensive maintenance. SNRDA installed about 30 bridges
and culverts, providing access to remote villages and facilitating vaccination coverage.



8
6.12 TechnIcal Assistance. Five posts in the project management unit were filled by FAC
financed technical assistants from the start-up of the second phase. Serious efforts were made
by both the Government and donors to ensure rapid replacement with Zairian nationals and by
1985 the posts of Director, chief of the veterinary, construction and mechanical services had been
filled by nationals. The expatriate crop production specialist was appointed in 1984 and remained
until 1989, when the project Director decided not to renew his contract due to poor execution of
the crop production component. Technical assistance was provided by the CIDA to AC'OOPELI
during 5 years of the project. The early transition from long term foreign technicaf experts to
national experts proceeded satisfactorily and earlier replacement of external expertise in the crop
production and financial and administrative services could arguably have resulted in better
performance (ref. section 11 below).
7.    Economic Rate of Return
7.1    At appraisal, the overall economic rate of return was estimated at 30%, with an estimated
36% for the livestock component and 17% for the agricultural component. In view of the
negligible impact of the foodcrop production component, the estimated rate of return of this
component is clearly negative. Actual costs and estimated benefits of the livestock component
were both about 15% less than at appraisal. This component has likely generated a positive rate
of retmn. While data are insufficient to be able to provide a detailed calculation of the overall
rate of return for the project, it is unlikely that it exceeds 12%, in view of the weight of the
unproductive expenditures for the crop production component.
8.    Sustainability
8.1    At an estimated cost of $163 per annum  per livestock owner during project
implementation, BPI could not provide the services to which local herders had become
accustomed without exteral assistance. However, both BPI and ACOOPELI applied cost
recovery policies for distribution of inputs and vaccines when counterpart funding was reduced
in the late 1980s and continuation of these principles could help the livestock cooperatives
through the difficult post-project period. Significant changes in the recommendation for tick
control and cattle dipping and spraying have reduced costs of disease control to livestock owners
and can be considered as a long term sustainable project benefit.
8.2    With the completion of external financing, BPI will not be able to function at the same
level as before, especially as conditions for Government funding, already mixed during project
implementation, have considerably worsened. Thus, the cooperative associations will basically
have to survive on their own strength. They were still active at the time of the completion
mission, although at a reduced level; their continued existence is uncertain.
9.    Performance of Borrower
9.1    With the exception of 1985, the Government did not provide satisfactory counterpart
funding for the project. This represented a permanent source of problems for project
management which resorted to the use of funds from the sale of inputs, originally intended for
a credit program (consequently abandoned), to substitute for the insufficient level of Government
funding. Occasional interference in the mid-1980s from the then Secretary General in Kinshasa



9
(a former employee of the project) with disciplinary measures taken by the project director,
eroded the authority of the director over project personnel.
10.   Performance of BPI
10.1 BPI was supposed to be a light-weight management structure. Already in 1983,
supervision missions noted a 16% increase in staff over original estmates and recommendations
were made throughout the project to reduce staff. There were still more than 350 staff with the
project when it closed, a reduction from about 500. BPI did exploit the possibilities of
collaborating with other local institutions but attempts to draw up agreements with the successful
local tobacco company BAT, with the local diocese (BDD) and with a private cotton company
(SOTEXCO) which was diversifying into foodcrops, all came to nothing. However, BPI
succeeded in delegating responsibility for animal health care and extension to ACOOPELI. The
misprocurement of 1988, discovered in 1989, seriously shook confidence of the Ministry and
external donors in what had nitherto been a relatively successful local management experience.
11.   Perfornance of the Bank
11.1  In the early years of the project, the Bank was flexible in its support to the project and
agreed to substitute for the Government by agreeing to the use of project funds for recurrent cost
funding when countetpart funding fell behind. Supervision missions during the early years of
the project should have been more assertive about the urgency for mobilizing activities in support
of the crop production component. The Bank reacted swifUy when procurement anomalies were
uncovered in 1989 (para. 6.13). Disbursements were suspended informally for extension-related
procurement (para. 6.15) pending the results of the auditors' report on the misprocurement of
goods and equipment. Subsequent Bank supervision missions focussed primarily on financial and
adminisutve maners.
12.   Performance of Consultants
12.1 The performance of CIDA consultants in support of ACOOPELI was satisfactory. The
performance of four of the six long-term experts provided by FAC was also satisfactory.
However, the contract of the expatriate financial and administrative director was terminatd in
1985 by FAC, due to suspected conflict of interest. During the course of 1985, a Bank
supervision mission discovered that the expatriate financial and administrative director had
misappropriated at least Z 2.4 million (US$67,000 equivalent) in cash and goods. He had further
given large advances to some project staff in order I'n enable them to buy some luxury items,
which he was importing privately. The external at had identified no anomalies In its review
of the 1984 accounts and the auditors were subse.  ty replaced. The performance of the
replacement financial and administrative director was unsatisfctory and no attempt was made to
prolong his two year contract. Supervision missions suggested the use of IDA fiuds for the
recruitment of a successor for this key post but the Ministry finally nominated a national.
12.2   Difficulties in recruiting suitably qualified and motivated exnal candidates to work in
remote areas in Zaire have frequently led to less than satisfactory performance by incumbents.
The experience of the Ituri project in this respect coincided with similar experiences in other



10
projects during the 1980s (see Project Completion Report for the Eastern Kasai Maize Project
(Cr. 1040-ZR).
13.   Project Relationship
13.1   Good relations were maitained throughout the prOject between the cofinanciers and
Goverment. Supervision missions were generally joindy organized and local representatives of
CIDA and FAC frequendy sent representatives to participate in field supervision. There were
frank exchanges of views on the sometimes thorny problems created by under performance of
externa consultants f-nded from bilateral sources.
14.   ProJect Documentation and Data
14.1  The project provided work programs and regular progress reports and prepared a
completion report in conformity with the Development Credit Agreement.



11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZARE
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
(CR. 1325-ZR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECT                     11
INRMODUCTION
The Project for Rural Development of Northeastem Zaire, initially entited 'the Ituri
Project Office' (BPI-Bureau du Projet Ituri), is part of the General Program to Revitalize
Agricultural and Stockbreeding Activities in Zaire.
The site of the project is Bunia, which is located in the Ituri subregion of Upper Zaire.
Ituri has a population of 1,800,000, the peasant strata of which include an estimated 18,380
stockbreeders and 8,600 farmers. 2/
Identified by a World Bank (IDA) mission in 1974 in collaboration with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development, the project was set up under Cr. 697-ZR, in the amount of
US$8.0 million. This initial stage was followed in 1983 by a second, Cr. 1325-ZR, signed on
February 15, 1983, in the amount of SDR 12.3 million, i.e. US$13.0 million.
Ihe following additional bilateral aid was granted by friendly countries to complete the
funding arrangements:
-     the Republic of France (FAC)            20,000,000  in FF
-     CANADA (CIDA)                            10,000,000  in C$
Countepart funding in the amount of US$3,250,000 was to be provided by the Zairian
Goverment
The possibility of a third stage, based primariy on the farm production component, was
contemplated by the next to last IDA supervision mission in May 1990. Unforunely, the
overall situation of the country, the position adopted by IDA in regard to project financing and
the new 'service' approach espoused by the Ministry were such that the chances of having a third
stage covered by the initial agreement no longer exist.
The Bank's proposal to restart the project's agriculture component by means of the Pilot
Extension Project (Cr. 2096-ZR), however, deserves to be encouraged. The stockraising
e
1/    Comments received from the Minisatry of Agricultre and Rural Development.
2/    Editor's Note: The comments mentioned only 8,600 farmers, whereas the SAR and
Bank supervision missions use an estimate of 300?000 farm families.



12
coMPonent will continue to be part of the Priority Public Investment Program (PIP) in order to
preserve progress made thus far.
REVIEW OF THE OBJECTIVES:
The project's original objeives were:
o    to increase the production of meat and food crops;
o    to strengthen the institutions engaged in agricultural and stockbreeding development; and
o    to improve the marketing process by organizing stockbreeders and farmers.
Accordingly, the aim was to improve the peasants' living standards and to help ease the
balance-of-payments situation by reducing imports of food products, in parficular meat.
To accomplish these objectives, the project had scheduled the following priority
objectives:
i.   rehabilitation of production and animl health services, management of the
zoosanitary infratructure and the provision of veternary iputs;
ii.   agricultural extension services;
iii.   improvement of human health care services;
iv. conduct of studies necessary to promote agricultural and stockraising
development;
V. limited assistance for fishery and the marketing of farm products;
vi. strengthening of the Project Management Office and the Association of Livestock
Producer Cooperatives in Itari (ACOOPELI); and
vii.   upgrading of the requisite infrastructure for agricultura and rural development,
particularly abandoned farm roads and bridges.
ORGANIZATION OF TIBE PROJECT
The project was placed under the supervision of the Mistry of Agricultre and Rural
Development, with technical oversight by the Directorate for the General Administration of
Projects (DAGP). It includi eight sevices, a liaison office based in Kinshasa and a field unit
at Kisangani. Its director was assisted by a technical deputy and an administrative and financial
deputy. In addition to the Zairian staff, the project received counseling from foreign technical
advisors in the areas of finance, animal husbandry and food crops.



13
PROJECT EXECTION PERFORMANCE
a.    Physical Execution
By and large, the project results were satisfactory. In the animal health category, 80%
of the target goals were atained, and in stockbreeding 102%; but in plant production only 18%
of the r,jectives were accomplished. Moreover, 127 Associations of Livestock Producers were
set up, whereas only 110 had been scheduled. The project succeeded in completing 60% of the
animal husbandry program for stockralsers and 4% of the training for farmers, while 40% of the
rural cuction program  was executed.  The efforts deployed in the area of genetic
Improvement warrant continuation.
Under the heading of marketing, a strong upturn was noted in fntional meat markets,
along with an increased number of catde sales, despite the poor condition of the roads and the
lack of facilities for transporttion to the consumption centers with the greatest market potential.
A fairly Impressive number of studies were conducted in the project, but not all of them
were intelligendy utilized or properly distributed. It should be noted that the project has not yet
completed enough surveys to establish specific criteria for monitoring and performance
evaluation.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is not satisfied with the results of
the agriculture component. Despite numerous supervisory missions organized by the Bank, this
component did not receive special attention, either by the donors or by project staff, although its
start-up was planned from the time the project was launched. The lack of action in this respect
explains most of the poor results achieved in this component.
Tne Ministry is very hopeful that future supervision missions from the World Bank will
make it possible to detect any weaknesses in the project in ime to take the requisite corrective
measures instead of allowing the situation to worsen and terminaing the project precipitously.
Hence the need for punctilious preparation of these missions, ensuring an adequate sojourn and
maldng greater use of the Ministry's services responsible for monitoring and evaluation.
b.   FNnanial Execution
T*he project funds were used in the following manner:
*    the IDA credit was used to defray the expenses of the works, supplies and services;
o    most of the Canadian assistance was utilized to strengthen the institutional capabilities of
the Association of Ituri Stockbreeders' Cooperatives (ACOOPELI). Canada's grant thus
made it possible to purchase veterinarian supplies for the Ituri cattlemen. Canada also
financed the rehabilitation of the Bunia industrial slaughterhouse;
*    the French grant covered the fees of experts assigned to the project; and
*    the funds provided by the Government of Zaire defrayed 20% of the project's operating
expenses.



14
lbe shares contributed by the parties participatig in the project as of April 30, 1991
were distributed as follows:
IIDA         87.20%
PAC           4.23%
Goverament   8.67%
lbe foregoiag percentage calculations do not include the expenses covered by the
Canadian and French thnical assistance, for which no data are avaRable.
A number of irregularities should be pointed out in the procurement procedures for items
purchased with the MIA credit, which were particulaly flagrant In the 1988 procurement. It
should nevertheless be noted here that the procurement tainted by such misconduct had obtained
the Bank's approval (in the form of its stement of no obecion) and the transactions took place
in the presence of the international financial advisor. In addition, quite a number of companies
collected some US$3.0 million after having obtained thg stement of no objecton from the Bank
to supply articles, which to this day have not yet been delivered. The Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development therefore declines all responsibility for these irregulatities. I/
Given the progress made by the project thus far, it is strongly recommended ta ways
and means be found to permit the safeguard and perpetuate its achievements.
Lastly, we should point out that most of the budget earmarked for the agriculture
component was utilized by the stockbreeding component in the course of project execution.
PERFORMANCE OF THIE ZAIRUIN GOVERNMET
Despite the finanial constraints imposed by macroeconomic difficulties, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development bas always accorded priority to the completion of this
project.
For purposes of smooth execution of the project, DAGP has organized training seminars
on the monitoring and management of projects to enhance the managerial skills of those
responsible.
At the same time, it should be noted that public adminitration very often fails to apply
disciplinary measures governing civil servants either speedily or in a timely fashion. As a case
in point, entry of the instances of mismanagement observed in the project chief has not yet been
completed in the files of the responsible govemment offices.
a/    Editor's Note: In this instance, project staff deliberately circumvented Bank guide-
lines. A substantial amount of goods was delivered to the project site and discussions
between Bank and project staff on their appropriate disposal were initiated by the
Bank, without result. The fate of these goods, following the political disturbance in
1992 and 1993, is unknown (see also pam. 5.6, Part 1).



15
PERFORMANCE OF THE ITWRI PROJECT OMICE
Ibe BPI has helped to imprve animal health and to increase the total number of catte
in the national herd.
The training program for project agents bas been completed to the satisfaction of the
pro   laers.
Ite project has also succeeded In regrouping the sockbreeders in coopeative
associations, PRODELs, and this will facflitate the tafer of knowledge and skills.
On the whole, the project was satisfactorily executed, notwlthstanding the anomalies noted
in connection with the procurement procedures.
THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The World Bank has fully honored its financial commitments, but certain weaknesses
were evident in the areas of project supervision and monitoring.
Despite the mnmerous supvisory missions, such visits failed to detect the irregularities
observed in the procurement procedures in time, and even consented to these practices (by not
objecting to the purchases in question).
In any case, particular mention should be made of the efforts expended by the
Agricultura Country Officer attached to the World Bank Resident Mission at Kinshasa.
CONSULTANTS' PERFORMANCE
The consultants assigned to the stockbreeding and animal health sector performed their
project tasks satisfactorily.
In the agricultural sector, weakness were evident in execution of the tasks entrusted to
the interaatk'nal adviser in the field.
The share of responsibility borne by the intrnational financial adviser in the
mismanagement observed in connection with procurement should be singled out particularly.
In general, the Zairian side should take timely steps to ensure a mechanism for
progressive replacement of foreign experts by local teams who have been trained and provided
with the necessary experience for that purpose. This would avoid the or -asional gaps resulting
from the difficulty in recruiting qualified foreign advisers.
PROJECr RELATIONS WITH OTHER INSTInTONS
Throughout the project execution period, relations between the BPI and other institutions-
such as the veterinarian laboratories at Kinshasa and Lubumbashi, and the regional and sub-
regional inspection conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development-have not
been easy.



16
lbe same Is true of relations between the donors involved in the projet: nmely, the
World Bank, CIDA, FAC and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
CONCLUSION
On the whole, the project was well executed. A substantial share of the target objectives
in the stockbreeding compone  were accomplished. The results In the agricultural component,
on the other hand, were disappointing. It is therefore recommended that the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development mobilize the necessary resources to consolidate the project's
achievements in the field of stockbreeding. The Government's priorities in this area should focus
on rehabilitating the airplane landing strip, remodeling the slaughterhouse and strengthening the
animal health protection buffer zone to prevent the spread of diseases from neighboring countries.
Personnel Training and Management: suitable measures should be envisaged to heighten
the efficiency of this component.
Monitoring and Evaluation: the DAGP is invited to set up an effective system of
monitoring and evaluation and a suitable data management procedure.
Procurement Procedures and Management: in the future, the project directorate should
adhere stricdy to the directives set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the accounting
procedures. The Bank should shoulder its responsibility in this respect when it has already
assented to the procurement.
The Government of Zaire is properly appreciative of the assistance received from the
World Bank and other donors of funds involved in the financing of this project.



17
PROJECT COMPWIMON REPORT
ZAIRE
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1325-ZR)
PART II: STATISLJICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Title                                           Purpoe                  -Approved          status
Coton Rehabilitation Project        Improvement of cowton produeton.    09/21/76         Closed on
(Cr. 0660-ZR)                                                                             12/31183
Livesock Dewvlopnut Project         Livestock improveaent.              04/12/77         Closed on
(Cr. 0697-ZR)                                                                             06183
Oil Palm Project                    Oil palm production project         05/02/78         Closed on
(Cr. 0796-ZR)                                                                             12131/87
Snuabolder Maie Project             Promote main production in the      06105180         Closed on
(Cr. 1040-ZR)                       Kasai-OrWentalregion.                                 06/30/90
Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project          Suga production project.             12/23/80        Cloed on
(Cr. 1089-ZR)                                                                             12/31187
Agriulturwal Technical Asistance    Instiuion building and progrm        05/11/82        Closed on
(Cr. 1244-ZR)                       imp _monwion strengtbeoing.                           06/307
Lulua Agricultural Development Project  Fodcrop production ptoject.     0O1s1             Closed on
(Cr. 1540-ZR)                                                                             06130/92
Agiculture Sector Management and    Follow-up technical assistance       10/20/88         On-going
lntutional Dovelopment Project      project.
(Cr. 1958sZR)
Pilot Extension Poject              Support to thedevelopment of        08/20/91          On-going
(Cr. 2096-ZR)                       sustainable agricultutal extnsion
services.



[~~~~~~~~~~ '- 
|~~~~~ -



19
Table 3. Disbursements
A. Estimated and Actual IDA Credit Disbursements
(US$ '000)
MA Fisnd            Apisal Eata                     A.-                   Act  Cumladvi l
Yoar                                                                    a ss % of Esimad
A=nua        Cumlaive        AJnu          Cmulativo        CurISaZv
Disbusmnents   Disbursemenft   Disburmnents  Disbursement     Disbursomens l
1983            900             900             0              0               0
1924            900 1Q0                      1,230          1,230             68
1985           1,200          3,000          1,290          2,520             84
1986           2,000          5,000          1,010          3,530             71
1987           3,000          8,000          1,890          5,420             68
1988           2,300          10,300         3,320          8,740             8S
1989           1,200          11,500         2,520          11,2M0            98
1990           1,000          12,500          230           11,490            92
1991            500           13,000          319           11,809            91
1992              0           13,000            0           11,809            91
Cancellation       ~,~- _                _        _2,660



20
Table 3. Disbursements
B. Estimated and Achal Disbursements by Category
(SDR '0W)
Category                                                 Est nate       _Actua                                Actual as X of
Estimate
SDR '000      US$ 000 am      SDR  000       USS '000       ( In US terms)
1. Civil Works
(a) by force account                                                           323              390
(b) under contract                                                             799              968
To be         To be
2. Equipment. Natertats and Vehicles             allocated      allocated        6,410            7,764             93
l _______________________________________        pursuant   to  pursuant   to                                                 l
tnAe Aimual    the Arnnua
3. Consultants' Services, Fetlouships          Work Prograt  Work Program
and Study Tours                                                                996            1,206
4. Operating Costs
(incremental expenditures)                                                     t80            1,066
S. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance          760            800            342              414             52
6. Unallocated (to be allocated to Categories     11,540        .12,200              .                .
(1) through (4) pursuant to the Annuat
Work Program)
Total t2 300                                                     13.000          9783 31         11 809             91
Cancellation                                                                     2.517            2.660
Two amendments were made in the credit agreement. The first, dated July 11, 1986,
concerned the establishment of a revolving fund in the amount of US$340,000 at a
commercial bank and the financing of fuel from the credit. Category (2) was relabelled
*(2) Equipment, Materials, Vehicles and Fuel." The second, dated October 21, 1988,
concerned the procurement procedures defined in Schedule 3. This amendment also
reduced the threshold for Bank prior review from US$100,000 to US$35,000.
1/      Disbursements in US$ were estimated using the average exchange rate during
implementation.
ZI      Totals do not add up due to balance adjustments.



21
Table 4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(JS$ million)
Appraisal Estimae      Actual a        Atua a& % of
LUveack Development                    9.1                10.4              114%
Agricultural Development               8.7                 2.6               30%
Human Heath                            1.1                0.2                18%
Plot Activities, Research              1.4                0.9                64%
Cal ProjctManagemnat and               9.9                10.0              101%
Support Secvie
Total                                 30.2                24.1               80%
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal           Actual         Actual as %
Estimate                          of Estimate
Government of Zaire                  3.2                1.5             50%
CIDA                                10.0                8.5              85%  I/
FAC                                  3.0                2.3              77% 3/
ACOOPELI                             1.0               n.a.
IDA                                 13.0                11.8             91%
Total                               30.2               24.1             80%
a'     Technical assistance costs have been estimated for individual components given the
absence of details from bilateral cofinanciers.
Discrepancies, to a large extent, are due to exchange rate fluctuations.



22
Table S. Imlementation Indicators
A. Project Beneficiaries
Befticarlu                     Ap,r  aial ma               Ac_ual          Acu  aa % of Estimat
I3vestock Pducots                   23,000                 23,000                   100
Ctop  Pducs                         120,OQ                  5,00                      4
B. Animal Iealth
ivso  Com_                                     without Project    Appl Target        A       .U .
(reus of
Cr. 0697-ZR)
|(I  Tment with polyvant aent                       87%               90%             n.a.
(ii)  aluegactiato                                  73%               n.a.            72%
(lii) Bncllosb vacclatoms                           33%               80%             n.a.



23
Table S. Implementation bidicators
C. Global Results by Activity
I   ._..... ._,  -:-  r,-1*      g_- 1.-  -  -  1590- .... 
19g4        1983        19a"        M1?          18                        1990
* N,hWta  ck obd)                        34434       374.21S     383999       400460      409-33       413S204      416.187      418,097      420.000
* TVWPmdutlp{vf*(%)                           14.1        10.7         9.S        143          9.90         11.93        10.S3       1I.39        16
. OU"waDg(%)                                 8.1          62          6.8        10.9         9.00         10.29        10.29        10.9)       16
* e& a          (S)                          6.0          4.S         3.0         3.6         0.90          1.44         0.24         0.46        0
* MVrf o(%I 
*  ca (S)                                  to          1.3         16           213         23.46        1234          12.34        8.30       20
.aub (S)                                     3            S           3           3.6         2,79          S.26         324          3.46        3
* Payw "a(%)                                  6S          64.9        M           s33         49.30         SS.77        S3.77        42.50       62
* Avrwu e woftyamdu(s Ow)                                200         226         203          207          193.82       193.64                   225
2.1 bmmem_of
* C*M3mnothlWb ud  o  GlS,               S 6  3       23,229      22.179      22.272      22,S54        21.30        24.334       27,496      24000
* cams9 Ec1 O4m                           S,070        2.00        3.760       5.343       3.439         6.6          7.24S        6,3S6
*                                            93b f   &(Vftw   f  93  46           4            .            .
*O1suOumof1mpt.wdockd) a5                                 4          12           17          10            9             .          30            .
*dwCmn    s                                   .           .                                    6 4                      10
*C2.U2    uibw(F P e  eps,m                 123         148         192         245          30            28          328          32B28
* C _xwMnla44v faMw;du       A(b)        4132          4,089      67.273      S9.113     105.340       11S.018      115.018      115.018     350.000
* Cumabtiwsgau dUIIuUdJIUSUI                  0           0        1,213.4     1,213.4     1,213.4       1213.46      2,7.40       6,947.40  350M0O0
*d adoaotbeu, m.                              ...41                                                      234          402          187
-  ibu  ef wpiua..                                                                       46.976       29.432            2        652,420
'Dbb%t*Imoftfddw -t-q
cw       f       dPnh                        *           .           .       45,96t      83.333       76.579       111.036      124.000
. a     d     -                              .           .        1.000        S50          S00          326          11S         1t0
dmodum                                       .           .         1IU            Ls         5s.0         364.         13           17
m. MORMN f O c_M96
S.l- -d -- - - 
*X n_dketawdw4aP                            143         232         243         282          392          460          487           M8
.   Numbstotmlmal,pu.mAld Quad           12,145       12.013      13.039      15,483      16,121        23.249       24.442       19.93
i   Ave ptc p. klcg of llw    bt (Z)         10.72       13.44       20.50       22.76         M.0         9            170         318.90
* N      _uabs t *(=buak Wu Qa.4)          8.8        10.216      10.640     1u.000       13.ff         17.699       17,180       17.419
* Aw W       (                               .           .           . g14                  25Ml7        236          262          261
3.2 Skmbkb
 fm "b  04                              S1,936       11.322      12.015       9.160      11.835        13.497       11,904       11,943
*  l (ead)                                                .        1,079       1.202       1.469         1.54         1.429        1.663
3.3 RX00*4ootrs VW
* Nd-lw (bua                              2,834        4.,52       5,264       3.707       7,474        4.903         7.506        3.398
* Krmn    d)                                47D0       149         1422          S3"       1.054          657          9n          1,144
* U1M  (boo                                1,ll       1,390       1.102        732        1S30          1,678        2,02N        1,476
3.4 ExltW= - M307                                          233          47.2        29.59       20.19         23.70         3.94        43.90
 Kbmbftu (tano                             307           3S         47.2         2.34         8.56        13.07         2.24        33.32
* KbuPW (t=)                                  .           .                      27.25        11.63        10.64          1.70        10.s8
IS5 P~dMZ ormmiWw
wmwitbon*(=ir*)                             40          43          so          35         193           350        2.000        3.000
*bowl= _ 1W _(z )                            45          30          60          a5          22           400         1.000        3.500
IV. imm  3tudis                               I~~~        I                       I            2             1
am                                                  _=_



24
Table 5. Implemention Indicaton
D. Agricultural Input Distribution
Unit       Appraisal        Actual
_ _ _                              Estmate
Hoes                    number       150,000          n.a.
Machstes               number         90,000          na.
Sicldes                mnmber         30,000          n.a.
Punmig Tools            number         1,600          La.
Coffee Pulpers          number          100           na.
Seed Producdon I/ 
Maize                   t/year           60           na.
Beans                   t/year          150           n.a.
Paddy                   t/year           1S           n.a.
Groundmuts              t/year           60           n.a.
E.   .is.
CMQD Yields    -      Unit       Without            With Project
Project      Appraisal      Actual
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _      Estimate
Maize                 kg/ha        1,000          1,350         n.a.
Beam                  kg/ha          600           700          n.a.
Paddy                 kg/ha        1,000          1,300       Ln.a.
| Groundunts _        kg/ha        8M0            1,000         n.a.
SI    Note: Production level at year 4 and later.



25
Table 5. Implementation Indicators
F. Infrastructure
Apprs E,ti                  Actual            Acual as a % of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _       ~~~Estia te
Road Rehabilitaton (Oun)               700                    277                     40
Bridge. (number)    _.a.                                       18
Dipping tanks (number)                 n.a.                     1.a.
Rehabllion                                     __
Barn                                   a.a.                    2
Spray Race                             100                     0                      0
Dipping Coral                          a.a.                    5
Cale Scales                             7                      10                   143
Senior Staff Housing                   n.a.                    2
Quaranti  Stations                      7                       1                    14
Cate Sheds                             n.a.                    I
Fuel Stions                            .a.                     I           _
NwQG2I
Rural slaughterhouses,                  33                     33                    100
dispensaries  houses



26
Table 6. Status of Covenant
3.01           (a) (i) The Bonowr sall cany out the Project, thuough Its dqe t  onsible for    lIfeuently complied with. RNeular
aiWtre, wi duo diligence and eftficncy and In conformity wih appropria        days In countpar fuding.
financial, adminItative, technical and agrcultual practces, and shall provide,
ptomptly as neede, te fuvs (Including foign exchange), faliie, sevics, ad ohr
resourese  quired for the purpose; and (U) for purposes of the provision of funds to
Breau du Projet tur ( .PI), the Borower shall make ls contribudon   the budget of
DPt In quadrely inallments to be made no later than the last day of the  s month of
each calendar quart , unless the Asociaon shall otherwis a .
(b) (i)     Borroe shall nsue t PI bhas overall rponsibty for execoan of th    Complied with
Projec and dat SPR shall be organized edhall opere as provided In Sectio 3.01 (c)
of the 1977 Credit Agrent; and (U) without limitation to the toregoiag the Borrower
al mainin ia operdon the compnatIon plan establshed for BPI staff undr dt
Itud  ivetock Development Ptoject to offer adequate wok ineves to such sff.
(a) The Borowr shall, untl the completion of the Project, mainta  the Project Policy    Not complied with. Ibe Commite
and Coordinatiag Commitee, wbichb shll be organized and shall operat as provided in   never met.
Section 3.01 (d) of the 1977 Credkt Agreement.
(d) The Borrow    all maint  in ludr, unti compledon of the Project, the Regional  Complied with
Consultative Commtte which shall be organzed and shall operae as provided In
Section 3.01 (a) of the 1977 Credi Agreement and which shall indude a repstative
of the Association of Livesock Producer Cooperaive (ACOOPELI).
3.02           In order to assist the Borrow  in carying out Pam D and B of the Project, the  Complied with
iBorower shall, as and when needed, employ consultnts whose qualificatin,
experience and tms and conditions of employmen sh  be satisfacry to the
Assoon, such consultants to be seected 'n accordance with principlas and
procedurem sauttory to the Assoclation on the basis of the *Gudeline for the Use of
Consulant by World Bank Borow   and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
publihed by the Bank in August 1981.
3.03           (b) The Borwer sll cause aU goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the    Not always complied with.
Credit to be used exlusively for the purposes of the Projea.
3.04           (b) Th Borrw: O() shall main records and procedure adequate to record and      Complied witb
monitor the progrems of the Project (ncluding is cat and the benefts to be derived
from it), to  etify the goods and srvices financed out of the proceds of the Credit,
ed to disdose their use in the Project; (ii) sball amble the Associtio's resntatives
to visit the faciities and consuction sites included in the Ptoject and to examin the
goods fhianced out of the proceeds of the Ctedit and any rdevant records and
documents; and (Mi) shall furnih to the Asociation at regular inteals all sch
informatin as t4s Asciation all reasonably request concning the Ptoject, its cost
and, where a,propriat, the beneflts to be derived from it, tbe expendtre of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services raned out of uch proceeds.
(d) No later than December 31, 1983, or such inter dat as may be agreed for this  Complied with
pus between the Borrower and the Associ'aton, the Bomrwer shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a repor, of such scope and in sch deil as the Asoiaion
all rasonably request, on the execution and iniial opeation of the Itui Livestock
Development Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borro  and the Association of their respective obligaons under
the 1977 Credit Agrment and the accomplishment of the purposm of the Credit No.
0697-ZR.
(c) The Bo mer shall pcp   and fmrnish to the Assocition: (i) no laterth      Complied with
December 31, 1986, an Interim report; and (ii) promptly after completion of the Project,
but in any event not lat than six mt  aftr the aosing Date or such lakr date as
may be agreed for this purps between the Borrower and the Association, a completion



27
3.6            The Boower sball, by September 31, 1983, (of su"  other  at -t  AssocItiony   Complid with but ner exeuted
a ), ter ino an agrmet wthb th Brtih  Aalmcn Tobacco Co>may (DBA)
wbhein shall be def4ed, for prpos of Pasn B of the Project thetearm  of the
coeperatIon bewn U     ad RTad the goods finaned out of th proees of the
Credit to be mado avalale r, RAT for tobacco growig faIr  of the Ptoject Aa
suh grmentsall be saftor the Assaton.
3.07           (a) The Bonower hal, no later      Sptember 30, 1983. (or such other date a tho  CpUiled witb
AssociatIon m agre): (O open a           alon behalf of RP! in a bank
cable to the Asswi  lut whicb shall be doposited all poceeds fo the ril to
ACOOPEU and the Assocan of Livock Ptodces (PRODEL) of verinmy
product and agiulura inputB undr Pat A and B of th Project ad (II) eaish a
ceihte_ comprsi  of the acowAuni  and fianeo mAner and ano   ta_   membe
of PI and the predont (ot bhi teprsentative) and tbe manag t epecialist of
ACOOP3UL  it being pecifled dt said commte  hall review credit applIcatio  made
to BPIn acodane with cre  aeptable to the Associton.
(b) Ecept as the Aociation shall otherwi agree, the Bormwer shall cure tat  Not compled wth. Cedit scheme
proeed dqepsd In the c            are used exclusively for the opeaton of the  dropped
pio cri seme  uder Part B of the Ptoject
(c) Bdor any withdrawl   made fiom the ooDt =&W  the Bonower shall fnih    Not complied with (we 3.07 (b)
to the Association for its approval credit applictons which hflill the critr referd to  abovo)
in pagraph (a) (iiM of this Section.
3.08             e Baorrowr shall: (a) (i) by July 31 of each year. prepr and subit to the  Compld wit
Associatio for it eview and comment the Anua Wotk Progrm of UN for the next
caledr yewr toeth  wkb the budget proposl peaiing thero  (sch progm   and
budget to be prepaed according to the provisions et out in Schedule 4 hreto, an suc
Scdule may be amended from tim  to time by agreem    bewe  the Borower end
the Association); and (U) by October 31 of sid yea, prepae end submit to the
ssociatin for Its approval the fina veio of said work progam and budget; and (b)
to that and, secur ACOOPELI' astne
3.09           Unless the Asockiton se otherie agree, the Borowe shall:                     Complid with paly. Subsidis
wee  reduced lm tn eeted
(a) Enue tat _s in the Project Ar  of: (i) all equipment and implements to
foodcop fa, (i) al equipment ad impm    to liveawk producer under dw
animal diea  control program, ad (Ill al inputs to industral crop fames, sll be
made at prics sicnt to at leas reco    at all tim  th full cos thereof; ad
O) Ovwr a five-yearpid sardg June 30, 193, tk all mer  satsfay to the
Asociation to easure that, by the ad of such period, Sles in the Projc Area of a1
lopur to foodorop farms and livestocproducets under de animal dise  control
program (in addion, to thos refetred to In pgapb (a) (i) and (O) above) shl be
made at prices sufiiet to at s recover at all times the full cost herf; k being
Wecifled thau, in ordet to achieve such objoeve, the Borower dshll ensure tt the
raio betwe the cost of acb input and th price ally paid for it be reduced each
yewr by at lea one-fifth over its initial lvel.



28
4.01           (a) The BorrowershaI maintain or cau  to be maintained separ accounts, adequt  Compiled with
to rec In acordae with conadny maiaied eppropriato acountig pratc  the
opation, reourc and expendtu, in respect of th Projea, of to depqatmes or
agencies of tb Borrower respoble for canying out the Project of any pa thereof.
(b) Wiout limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower sbal: (i) through PI min-an or   Comnplied with
cause to be maiSntid sea    accounat reflectig eli expenditur on acount of which
withdrawals ar requtd from the Credit Account under Caegories (1) and (4) of the
table set out in parasph  1 of Schedule 1 hemo On the basis of aments of
expenditure; (ii) through BPI retain. unti one yer afe the Closing Date, all records
(contaucts, orders. invoices, bWi, receipts and other documets) evideing the
expenditures on aecount of which withdrawals ae equested from the Credit Account on
the basis of ' aements of expendre; and (iii) enable te Aocation's teprcsatives
to examine Ucb records.
(a) 'Me Boarower all: (i) have the accounts referred to in paagaph (a) of this  Complied with
Section for each fisal year audited, in accordance with appropriato auditing principles
consiAnty applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Asotin, as soon as available, but in any case not ater than six months afler
the end of each such year, a certfied copy of the teport of such audit by such audto,
of such scope and in such detail as the Associatioon hall have reasnably requested,
including wivout litnitation to the toregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the eendiues and records refetred to in paragph (b) of this Secio as to
whether the proceods of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on te basis of
stements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they wve ptovided;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other iormation concerning said accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
rasnably request.
4.02           Tbe Borrower shall
(a) Make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the transfer of management  Transfer completed
resposibill:y for the Bunia gkg   from the National Livesock Bureau (ONDE) to the
Cooperaive Union of Livestock Ptoducers Associations (ACOOPEL); and
(b) Eansre that ACOOPELI at all times manage the Bunia abeko on a commercW    Complied with
basis with experieaced and qualified personne in accordance with appropriat financial
and adminiaive practices.
4.03           The Borrower shal: (i) implementits policy, as described in Ar    No. 018/81, and  Partially complied with. Thee was
No. 110, dated June 1, 1981, and May 29. 1982, respectively, on the liberalization of    little review with IMA of the impact
prices for agricultual and agro-indusral products; (ii) review, onCe a year, the impact   of tho prie liberaliaon measures
of such policy on the output of such products In the Project Ar; and (ii3) exchng
viws with the Association on sucb impact, promptly upon the completion of such
review.
4.04           (a) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, infastaucture and equipment included in the   Complied with
Project to be adequatly maintained and cause aU necessar renewals and repais therof
to be made promptly as required, all in accordance with apprtptiste agricultal and
management practices, and shal provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for this purpose.
(b) Wtthout limitation to paragraph (a) of thi Section the Borrower sball ensure that
(i) during the execution of the Project BPI adequatly maintain the roads and bridge  Partially complied with. Indequat
rehabilitated under Part F of the Project, and (i) following completion of the Project,    funds available for maienanc
ACOOPEUI aequately maintain said woads and bridges and carry out all necesary
repairs and renewals thereof, alU it; acordance with approptiate engineering pacices.
For purposes of this paragraph, the Borrower shall make available, initially to BPI, end
sbsquently to ACOOPELI, the ncessary funds, facilities, equipnent and services.



I-q
E~~~    q.
E t1~~~~~~~~0
]w}l~~~~' .  q
S~~~~~~~0 E  '
,      Sb __ __ _~* 
R v __ _ _ d~~
:~~~~0 @1VI_ 



Table 7. Use of Bank Resources
B. Mission Data
8PaVlo         Dat      Days in Phid    Kv  fat   Speci -  dwRqputcd                PT_   of?p abkd
Miso.                 __ _ _           Past                                     __      __             2'g! 1
1         033            11            2        ApiasbglUcowmt
LvatockSpedais 
2         01/84          21            1        ApioUIfmcoamls                      2               FpA
3          t214          12            2        Agd_u_ Economist                     I 
4          06J85         10            2        ASdOhml                             2                F
5          ti/85         7             2        Ala _                               2               FM
6          11/186       n..            3        A       _                            t               F
0s..
LIV*d pk SpIist                                                                        W
- ~~~~~~ o
7          tin?          S           SFluaAisyst                                    I                F
8         03188          7             1        FlWhA=ty                            I                P
9         03/89          8             3        FwiulAm Ayt (2)                     2              PA,P
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                        A Sronofist                                  _ __I_A S_ __s_ _
10         12W9           8            2        Fmsn   hAmlya                        3             F.,P
it         07/90          4            2        FinJl hAnti                          3             F.M.?
6        1 =problem-free or minor problms; 2=moderate problems; 3=major problems.
7/      F=Financial; M=Management; T=Technical; P=Procurement.



4IRD 1623"
ZA I R E
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXISTING AND PROPOSED ACTVTIES                                                       SUDAN                  .              -"
f r, '-h, b. O.a                                                                             t
A,,|9g, (RlFDr. r1 t  F", N
-                   d,,,                                              A  A"-  
0                                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~IQ
-    &oq, *,, BVJ.A,,.
O   Z                                                 o4                             0o
-    e--ql Bo,d,.,,. ,.t*1  
-. -    ...r11b0 e; Ado  Hh>'es
--    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~'1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
\o          '~<S                                                        $ (\  - 7   <;)  .i JGBO
3     rg2J   >    t}             -Xoi FVAIt   s             >s    (       s~~'I  ZAIR
tw..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~h \.W     h- ArW<A
.dDn.O~ 8 o t AZAAAIA 
MAY19IM



I/  16240
C E N   RA L                 A F R I C A N                     E           P U B L               WO 
/ 9 ,.6 * A---A_ >'                                                                                                     ZAIRE
V  S   U   D   A   N                                     ~~~NORTHEAST
*oKem   g           Adomo    t~>    ~    ~~                                                    ,                                                     RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE PROJECT AREA
_^   -  s B    A    S"E (7   f   tl   v           z v            k         ir         r           IHt G,AtAMti IL                             /     Mo- Co-smng Centers
N                                   +_ _&7 <  vy@-  ; 8 / ( ' PAtf ''    -Rds of G.neol  toI.nce
Rand, of Local In,o..
Di|-.i                                                        A  D                                                                   A opor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sir                                                                             Mogb                                          /                    Sob -- og _o  Eoood a snG0a '  igt
11 77  .                                                        =          )A4K{lOMETeRSO  20 40 m,tis0 t00 IL000460O00
,1 XrOFUmO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 ~o,7J 6-                                                     "-                       Ahi /na haa kaa paOoa by Yh                           ok'. lt at)ol o.oeo lo
< _   _   /  h      9                       uf g lsosenF                  r    S      J      f                       Thh lreP hU=<>@tnt;r th {ewfWzxod ibntsl   ef Thdcn,aisoa a,oodrs nd s I,   ,oao,t -a m
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IEI   /   X*                                                                                                        3       O DAN       ETHIOPIA
{ _Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gSt 0   Tijt .1                                                                                                                                                                  H-IwtA./ s 
_  'C6~jB~                   . '''   A.,NDA
H  A  U   T    R      E                          E     G                                      Dj.gu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ARE          ORtdIIti/
TOlkelo  \  ...,    o..                              itfr....   of
ro 80                                                              ------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2610



