Ft-LE COPY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3447-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF rHE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$13.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 11, 1.983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -      Zaire (Z)
Zaire 1.00                  US$0.18
US$1.00              =      z5.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       =       3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                  =       0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)              =       0.386 square miles
1 square meter (m2)               -       10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                =       1.13 cubic yards
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACOOPELI    =   Ituri Livestock Producers Cooperative
(Association des Cooperatives d'Eleveurs de l'Ituri)
AFDB/ADF    =   African Development Bank/African Development Fund
BAT         =   British American Tobacco Company
BPI         =   Ituri Project Unit Bureau (Bureau du Projet Ituri)
CIDA        =   Canadian International Development Agency
FAC         =   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Ministry)
INERA       =   National Institute for Agricultural Research and Studies
MARD        =   Department (Ministry) of Agriculture and Rural Development
ONDE        =   National Livestock Development Agency (Office National pour
le Developpement de l'Elevage)
PRODEL      =   Livestock Producers Societies (Promotion pour la Defense
de l'Elevage )
SOFIDE      =   Development Finance Company (Societe Financiere de Developpement)
Fiscal Year (Government of Zaire)
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECI SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:              Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Amount:                   SDR 12.3 million (US$13.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms
Project Description:      The Project would be a continuation of the
IDA-financed Ituri Livestock Project (Credit
697-ZR). Its main objectives would be to increase
livestock and fooderop production and strengthen
rural development institutions through the
provision of: (i) veterinary and animal production
services and infrastructure; (ii) crop development
services and inpuLts (production and distribution
of seeds, supply of basic agricultural tools);
(iii) human health services; (iv) basic data,
monitoring and evaluation; (v) studies, pilot
activities, tria:Ls and training; (vi) selective
maintenance of tr-ansport infrastructure and (vii)
technical assistance.
Project Benefits:         The Project would improve the revenues of about
120,000 low-income farmers. It would increase
substantially production of livestock, beans,
maize, sweet potatoes, cassava and groundnuts,
thereby assisting Zaire in its goal of achieving
food self-sufficiency. At full development, the
average income of farmers benefitting from the
project would be expected to increase by more than
40 percent.   The main risks are associated with
the general situation of Zaire's economy and the
unavailability of foreign exchange to meet
recurrent needs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on]y in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
1J
Estimated Costs :
Local        Foreign       Total
-US$ million---------
Livestock Development                   2.0           4.8          6.8
Crop Development                        1.3           5.1          6.4
Human Health                            0.1           0.7          0.8
Pilot Activities, Research,             0.3           0.7          1.0
Studies and Training
Technical Assistance                    1.6           5.7          7.3
(Central Project Management
and Support Services)
Total Base Costs                        5.3          17.0         22.3
Physical Contingencies                0.5           1.7          2.2
Price Contingencies                   1.5           4.2          5.7
Total Project Costs                     7.3          22.9         30.2
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total
--US$million--------
Government of Zaire               3.2                     3.2
ACOOPELI                          1.0          -          1.0
CIDA                              1.3         8.7        10.0
FAC                                -          3.0         3.0
IDA                               1.8        11.2        13.0
Total                    7.3       22.9        30.2
1/ Taxes and duties included in Project costs are negligible since virtually
all items would be exempt.



( iii)
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Years       FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89    FY90    FY91
--------------------------------US$ Million-----------------------
Annual                  0.9      0.9      1.2     2.0      3.0      2.3    1.2      1.0      0.5
Cumulative              0.9      1.8     3.0      5.0      8.0    10.3   11.5    12.5    13.0
Rate of Return:   30 percent.
Appraisal Report:  Report NO. 4103-ZR, dated January 7, 1983
Map: IBRD 16239






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 12.3
million (US$13.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the
Northeast Rural Development Project; the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) and the French Cooperation Ministry (FAC) would provide the
equivalent of US$10 million and US$ 3 million respectively, on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. An economic mission
visited Zaire in March 1982; its report has been recently discussed with the
Government and will be distributed in January 1983.
Background
3.      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$220 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and a half times the
rate of population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and
subsistence) normally accounts for 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment and
income for more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and
mineral-processing industry normally accouints for about 18 percent of GDP; it
has traditionally been the largest source of public revenue and provides more
than two-thirds of the country's export earnings.  (The shares cited are 1979-81
averages).
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to seven years
following independence were marked by vio:Lent political strife and a severe
disruption of the economy; but after the restoration of political order and
stability in 1967, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until
1974. Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic
difficulties which have brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.



-2-
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these were: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and attempts to change drastically the ownership structure of
the economy through the zairianization and nationalization measures of 1973-74.
Though since rescinded, the zairianization and nationalization measures had
particularly adverse and lasting effects on the economy: they seriously damaged
private sector confidence both at home and abroad, severely disrupted the
transport and marketing links between urban centers and the interior, and
resulted in the neglect of the country's productive capacity and
infrastructure. The deterioration of Zaire's terms of trade since 1975, owing
largely to the fall in the international price of copper, was a major
contributor to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.      Zaire's attempts to cope with the crisis were uneven and uncoordinated.
As a result, by 1978, commercialized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below
the pre-crisis (1972-74) level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record
level equivalent to about 12 percent of commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and inter.ediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Although the decline of GDP was arrested in 1979, the economy
continued to face serious difficulties that year. The budgetary eficic, though
reduced, was financed entirely by recourse to the domestic banking system.
This, plus the acceleration of credit to the rest of the economy, continued to
exert pressure on prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital
city during the year. The balance of payments also remained under strong
pressure, as evidenced by a further accumulation of external payment arrears --
a trend which had started in 1975. On December 31, 1979, arrears (including
those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about US$1.8
billion. Although two stabilization programs, supported by the IMF, were
adopted and three debt rescheduling agreements under the Paris Club were
concluded during the 1975-79 period, these could not be implemented and
therefore brought limited relief.
Developments since 1979
7.      Despite the mixed performance, the year 1979 saw the beginning of more
systematic efforts by Zaire and its major donors to deal with the crisis.
First, in August 1979 Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed to
contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of inflation, and
thereby create the conditions for a resumption of economic growth.  Second,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated private banks (April 1980). Third, Zaire started a
process of institutional reforms, including the gradual establishment of a more
systematic process of approval, programming and monitoring of public investments
(see next section).



- 3 -
8.       These efforts produced considerable improvements in 1980.  GDP expanded
by 2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery in copper production;
exports rose in nominal terms as did imports; and the external current account
balance showed a small surplus for the second straight year, in sharp contrast
to the average annual deficit of nearly US$600 million registered during
1976-78. Government finances also improved The budgetary deficit was reduced
by about two fifths in nominal terms and amounted to 1.9 percent of GDP. The
easing of tne supply situation, together wit h the restraint in government
borrowing, contributed to lowering the annual rate of inflation by more than
half -- to about 44 percent -- despite the devaluation of the zaire by about 30
percent (vis-a-vis the SDR) early in the year. At the same time, Zaire observed
all the performance criteria under the IMF-supported stabilization program for
1980 and was able to purchase the full amount (SDR 118 million)
allowed under the stand-by arrangement. In addition, it largely complied with
the debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club and the syndicated private
banks by nearly doubling its external public debt service payments.
9.       Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in mid-1981 Zaire
adopted a three-year program of economic and financial adjustment supported by
an "Extended Facility" (EFF) from the IMF il an amount equivalent to SDR 912
million.  The program had three basic objec:ives: (i) to achieve an average
annual growth rate of real GDP of 3 percent; (ii) to reduce the rate of domestic
inflation to 25 percent by 1983; and (iii) to contain the external current
account deficit in 1983 to 5 percent of nominal GDP. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club under which the
creditors agreed to the rescheduling of some of the previously rescheduled
maturities as well as the new (not previously rescheduled) debt falling due in
1981 and 1982. However, economic performance during the year fell below
expectations because of external as well as internal factors. The weakening of
the copper and cobalt markets caused Zaire's merchandise exports to fall by
about US$460 million (or 24 percent) in nominal terms. Although the decline in
nominal imports was kept to 10 percent, real imports were lower than at any year
during the crisis and, indeed, were 40-50 percent below the pre-crisis level.
As a result of these developments as well as a weakening of fiscal discipline,
the budgetary deficit expanded five-fold in nominal terms -- to the equivalent
of 8 percent of commercialized GDP. Net government borrowing from the domestic
banking system exceeded the target under the medium-term program by a large
margin. Zaire could not comply with either the criteria under the Extended Fund
Facility or the July 1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating
external debt arrears in the third quarter of 1981, and the EFF was formally
cancelled effective June 21, 1982.
10.     Zaire's economic difficulties were accentuated in 1982.  In March 1982
Zaire was able to puchase SDR 107 million tinder the IMF Compensatory Financing
4          Facility, but this provided limited relief as copper and cobalt prices continued
to weaken.  Merchandise exports in 1982 are estimated to have been at least
US$200 million (15 percent) less than in 1981 and US$650-700 million (33-36
percent) less than in 1980. Furthermore, efforts to curtail expenditures --in
the face of a sharply reduced resource base-- have proven insufficient. As a



- 4 -
result, the budgetary deficit was expected to double in 1982; the inflation
rate, which fell to 30 percent in the first three quarters of the year, seems to
be accelerating; and the exchange rate, which has not been changed since
mid-1981, has come under strong pressure. Zaire has also encountered serious
difficulties in meeting its external debt service obligations. External public
debt arrears may total US$800 million at the end of the year.
Government Measures
11.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government viewed as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy was the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved and some agricultural
producer prices were raised. Under a scheme of "development agreements", an
effort was initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of
agriculture and related infrastructure.  A new investment code was promulgated,
and a number of reforms were undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
12.     In 1979, attention was directed to the preparation of a medium-term
Public Investment Program (PIP), and the World Bank was asked to assist the
Zairian authorities in this endeavor. In August 1979, the Government completed
a program for the period 1979-81, focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in
priority sectors such as agriculture, mining and transportation. The execution
of the PIP during 1979-80 was constrained primarily by the shortage of resources
and the execution of certain on-going projects which had not been included in
the PIP: only 40 percent of the PIP could be executed, compared to 60 percent
foreseen under the program.
13.     In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program supported by
the EFF, the Zairian authorities took a number of interrelated steps toward
stimulating supply, keeping the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and
improving forpign exchange management. In June 1981 the zaire was devalued by a
further 40 percent vis-a-vis the SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and
the existing price controls on most goods were removed in order to stimulate the
private sector. In addition to completing a revised PIP for 1981-83, Zaire
began preparing an Agricultural Action Plan in order to bring about improvements
in the following areas: (i) strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for



pricing, marketing, credit, and foreign exchange allocation; (iii)
implementation of on-going projects; (iv) investment programming for the sector;
ancd (v) research, extension and training. The Action Plan was discussed at a
meeting of the Consultative Group for Zaire held in June 1982. The Zairian
authorities cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of a fiscal
study which comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on the control over
expenditures), tax reform and the tax regime oi Gecamines (the state-owned
company producing most of Zaire's copper and a:l of its cobalt). This study was
cormpleted in May 1982.
14.     In 1982, Zaire made additional attempts to improve economic managem2nt
and institutional performance.  The Ministry of Agriculture was significantly
reorganized as part of a broad program of institutional reforms for the sector.
Thie Government appointed new, more broadly-based Executive Boards for Gecamines
and Sozacom (the state-owned company marketing the bulk of Gecamines' output);
important changes were made in the top management of Gecamines; and a new
marketing arrangement between the two firms was approved. Furthermore, the
Government announced the decision to "privatize" the ownership and/or management
of 37 inefficient public enterprises, and it further relaxed the remaining price
controls. The Government proceeded at the same time to implement a policy of
"decentralization" whose apparent objective is to give the regions more
autonomy.
Prerequisites for Recovery
15.     The difficulties experienced by Zaire since 1975 have had a heavy
economic and social cost. Much of the country's productive capacity and
infrastructure has deteriorated, and real wages and salaries have declined by
more than half. The main causes of this deterioration have been the depressed
level of world commodity prices, the weaknesses of institutions, the inadequacy
of administrative controls, and deficiencies cf economic decision-making.
These, together with an inappropriate fiscal regime, have resulted in the
growing decapitalization of the main mining firms, especially Gecamines. In the
last two years, with the cooperation of the irternational community, significant
progress has been made in defining the policies and actions necessary for
recovery, and a number of important decisions have already been announced by
Zaire. The implementation of these policies, however, has not been sufficiently
vigorous or consistent, particularly in the areas of prices, the exchange rate,
tax reform, investment planning, and expenditure control. While the growth of
expenditures appears to have decelerated in the last few months, greater efforts
are required to compress them further and to improve their allocation.
16.     Although Zaire' exports are expected l:o improve in the next three years,
largely because of the anticipated recovery of copper prices, Zaire's resource
constraints will remain severe. This is partly due to the external public debt
burden. The contractual debt service due in t:he next three years is equivalent
to about 45 percent of projected exports of goods and nonfactor services --a
ratio which would seem incompatible with even a modest economic recovery.
Moreover, as a result of the sharp drop in commitments over the last few years,
the undisbursed project pipeline --the source of future disbursements-- has been
reduced to US$670 million, compared to US$1.2 billion in 1975. The medium-term
outlook for bilateral and multilateral assistance is uncertain.



- 6 -
17.     The Zairian authorities are aware that in these circumstances they will
need to take stronger actions to: (a) bring the foreign exchange rate to a more
appropriate level, (b) generalize the application of the price liberalization
measures, (c) reduce the budgetary deficit by implementing the recommendations
of the recently completed IMF/Bank fiscal study, (d) create the conditions for
improving the prospects of financing Gecamines' rehabilitation program, (e)
implement the Agricultural Action Plan, bearing in mind that a number of
policies remain to be formulated, and (f) revitalize the public investment
programming and monitoring process. The most urgent priority is to reach a new
agreement with the IMF, as this will relieve the resource pressure and open the
way for a new external debt rescheduling agreement, which is urgently needed.
An IMF mission visited Zaire in December 1982 in order to assess recent economic
developments and prospects and to carry out preliminary discussions on an
adjustment program that could be supported by the use of Fund resources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.     From 1969 to date IDA has approved 29 credits totalling about US$438.7
million for agriculture, transport, development finance company operations,
water supply, power and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an
offshore oil production project and US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies related
to the development of an aluminium complex.   Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30,
1982 and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
19.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the case of Gecamines, the
Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing, intended to define ways and
means to strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the
company.
20.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for the first time,
provided an integrated view of implementation problems. This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank Group assistance,
particularly in the agricultural sector.



- 7 -
21.     Ten credits and one loan have been tctally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292,
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit 272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271, and 463--ZR (First:, Second and Third SOFIDE
Projects); Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply and
Gecamines, and Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE
and the first Highway Projects. The conclus[on of the audit and completion
reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution building had been
mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an effective and competent institution, and the
Office des Routes, the highway agency, had been able to establish an effective
administrative set-up. On the other hand, ONATRA's performance had not improved
as a result of the first River Transport Project but did improve under a
follow-up project; implementation by RVF and RVM had disappointing results, but
financial results of operations had improved. All entities had encountered
operating difficulties beyond their control as the economy deteriorated,
financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the investment
environment were exacerbated by Government's zairianization/radicalization
measures. Bank Group support to SOFIDE and the OR is continuing under the
Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and a Fourth Highway
Project (Cr. 916-ZR). RVF and RVM received assistance through a second River
Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR); and ONATRA will benefit from a recently approved
Modernization Project.
22.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the Eastern Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 mil:Lion. In this same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 24 percent; this compares favorably with an average
rate of about 20 percent for other countries of the region. While disbursement
performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in several
projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education and livestock
(Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong project entity caused
implementation delays. Economic conditions were also a factor in slowing
project progress in instances where government counterpart funds were not
available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and
where the investment environment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of
*        abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR).  Future project
implementation should be less affected by the above influences given the
strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts by the
Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed projects. At the end of
1981, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and outstanding was
less than 10 percent.



23.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also emphasized
through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector, (in particular the Voie Nationale); to assist the development
of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new Agricultural Action
Plan (see para. 13 above) and to promote the development of the industrial and
mining sectors. In addition, further support will be considered for the energy
sector.
III.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
24.       Agriculture is vital to Zaire's economy, employing 70-75% of the
population. Its contribution to GDP and exports, however, has been declining as
a result of the deterioration of general economic conditions whereas imports of
agricultural products have been increasing. Inadequate policies and the
weakness of key agricultural institutions have constrained agricultural
rehabilitation and development.
25.       Production Systems.  As in most other African countries, Zaire's
agriculture is characterized by the co-existence of modern and traditional
sectors. It is estimated that the modern sector contributes about 40% to
agriculture's present share of GDP; the traditional sector, about 60%. The
modern sector includes two main categories of production units: large,
corporation-owned plantations using modern techniques and inputs and smaller,
individually-owned farms and ranches. The principal outputs produced by the
modern sector are palm oil, sugar, rubber, tobacco, coffee, cocoa and cattle.
The traditional sector comprises an estimated three to four million farming
units averaging about 1.5 ha each. The traditional crops grown are cassava,
maize, rice, cotton, peanuts, vegetables and tropical fruits. Before
independence, the Government's services for peasant agriculture were generally
oriented toward cotton production and the Government worked mainly through
private companies to provide inputs, services and supplies to farmers and to
build the necessary processing and marketing infrastructure. Following
zairianization/nationalization, the private companies were not able to fulfill
their traditional role in the rural areas; despite its attempts, the Government
was unable to replace them effectively.  In 1978, a new institutional structure
based essentially on mixed-capital companies was set-up.
26.       Marketing and Pricing.  Prior to the 1981 price liberalization
measures (para. 13), the Government had sought to regulate prices of
agricultural products as well as marketing operations, with the objective of
guaranteeing a fair return to producers and adequate supplies of food and basic
commodities to urban consumers at a reasonable price.   The Government had
established price levels for producers to be administered regionally, but it had
been unable to provide any mechanism to enforce the established price or to
guarantee that farmers' crops would be purchased; in addition, the established
prices had been revised too infrequently and set at too low levels not taking
fully into account the actual costs of production.



- 9 -
27'.      Since June 1981, the Government has taken major positive steps towards
price liberalization, including in May 1982 the removal of all controls on the
prices of essential foodcrops (cassava, maize, rice, soya, peanuts, beans,
fruits and vegetables); these measures are expected to significantly increase
incentives to producers (they would be implemented in the area of the proposed
Project-- see para. 57). Physical deficiencies in the marketing, transport and
storage infrastructure, however, remain a serious obstacle to the development of
the sector and may prevent the full realization of the benefits of price
liberalization measures.
28.       Sectoral Institutions.  TraditionalLy, the role of Government
institutions in promoting and regulating agricultural development in Zaire was
relatively restricted while the private sector dominated the development of
modern agricultural activities. In the mid-70's, the Government tried to expand
its role but with little success - in fact, causing considerable disruptions to
the sector (para. 5). More recently, the Government has established and begun
to implement a new agricultural policy relying essentially on the private
sector.   The Department (Ministry) of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD)
is responsible for agricultural policy, exten3ion services, veterinary and
research services, technical supervision of parastatal institutions, rural water
supply and cooperative development. Other ministries whose activities affect
agriculture include: the Department of the National Economy, responsible for
price policies; the Department of the Portfolio, responsible for supervision of
companies in which the Government holds shares; the Department of the
Environment, responsible for the development and regulation of forestry
activities; the Department of Education which undertakes agricultural education
and the Office des Routes (OR), responsible for development and maintenance of a
large part of the national road network. In addition, a number of parastatal
institutions have responsibilities for agricultural production, marketing, and
regulation; they include commodity offices for livestock (ONDE), coffee
(OZACAF), and cotton (CSCo). SOFIDE, the development finance institution,
established an agricultural department in 1976, and offers medium and long term
credit for agricultural and agro-industrial projects.
29.       Government Strategy for the Sector.  The Government has recently
defined the framework for a new agricultural strategy.   An Agricultural Action
Plan has been designed to stimulate short-term recovery and achieve food
self-sufficiency: first, by removing critical, bottlenecks; second, by making
on-going projects and programs work better; t:hird, by encouraging small farmers
and private companies to produce and market food crops, cotton, sugar, and oil
palm, and to export coffee and forestry products. It includes measures to
strengthen the institutional support for agricultural policies and investments,
the development of new approaches to critica:L agricultural policy issues, the
monitoring of on-going projects, preparation of a 1982-84 investment plan for
agriculture within the context of the Mobutu Plan, and an analysis of import
needs and priorities. IDA and several other development agencies have supported
these efforts and the Government's broad strategy and objectives, on which there
is basic agreement. The Government's new ag7^icultural strategy was generally
endorsed at the special meeting of the ConsuLtative Group on agriculture in June
1982.



- 10 -
IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
30.       The proposed Project was prepared in 1980-81 and appraised in
October-November 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report dated January 7, 1983
(No. 4103-ZR) is being distributed separately. A supplementary project data
sheet is attached at Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 29 to December 1, 1982. The Zairian delegation was headed by the
Agriculture Minister Kamitatu Massamba.
3,-.      The Ituri Livestock Project.  The proposed Project would be a
continuation of the Ituri Livestock Project (Cr. 697-ZR approved in June 1977)
which was completed in December 1982. The principal objective of this project
was to develop livestock (mainly cattle) activities in the Ituri subregion of
Haut Zaire. Provisions were made for the supply of veterinary products, the
improvement of veterinary, marketing, stock route and slaughtering facilities,
the rehabilitation of three ranches, staff and farmer training, the improvement
of two abattoirs and technical assistance.
32.       Project implementation met with several problems, the first being a
delay in start-up due to difficulties in recruiting the technical assistance
team to support the Ituri Project Unit (BPI), which was responsible for project
management. The traditional livestock component was also hampered by delay in
the delivery of veterinary products. In general,the Project activities suffered
from the effects of high inflation in Zaire, the unreliability of local
construction firms and the inability of the Government to provide local
counterpart funds in timely fashion. There have been, however, significant
achievements, particularly in the vital area of institution building. Probably
the most noteworthy has been the establishment of the Ituri Livestock Producers
Cooperative Union (ACOOPELI) which groups about 90% of Ituri's livestock
producers in some 117 livestock support societies, known as PRODELS. ACOOPELI
and the PRODELS play an essential role as intermediaries between the producers
and the Project Unit (BPI). Another major achievement has been the setting up
of livestock experimental stations.
33.       The Ituri Livestock Project has provided valuable lessons which have
been taken into account in the design of the proposed Project. These can be
summarized as follows: (a) producers can be more effectively reached if they are
organized at the grassroots level; (b) an effective data gathering system must
be instituted to assess project impact and aid in the design of future programs;
(c) an adequate price policy is important if producers are to be motivated; (d)
a minimum level of marketing infrastructure is indispensable for proper
marketing of meat and foodcrops; and (e) an effective training program is
essential. The provisions in the proposed Project for assistance to ACOOPELI,
for studies and data gathering, for implementation of the Government's policy of
price liberalizatin in the Project area, for improvement of marketing infra-



- 11 -
structure and the continuation of the current successful training scheme reflect
the experience gained from the Ituri Project.   The activities of the Ituri
Livestock Project represent the start of a long term program for development of
the region and it is essential that these efforts be sustained if the gains made
to date are to be kept.
34.       The proposed Project would be a continuation of the Ituri Livestock
Project (para. 31) and would take account of tne fact that since fewer than 10%
of the farming families in Ituri raise livestock, it is necessary to devote
increasing attention to foodcrop production. Its main objectives would be: (a)
to increase foodcrop as well as livestock production, thereby increasing
smallholders' incomes; (b) to strengthen rural development institutions; and (c)
to support the Government's efforts to elaborate more adequate agricultural
policies. The Project would contribute to the Government's agricultural
strategy of making Zaire self-sufficient in foodcrops. The existing Ituri
Project Unit, BPI (para. 46) would have principal responsibility for project
implementation under the general supervision cf MARD. ACOOPELI, the livestock
producers' cooperative union, would be responsible for the distribution of
veterinary products and agricultural inputs, for the pilot marketing activities
and for the management of dips. BPI would work closely with specialized
agencies or companies such as the British American Tobacco Company (BAT) which
promotes tobacco production. BPI would by September 30, 1983 enter into an
agreement with BAT which would define the terias of their cooperation and the
goods financed out of the credit to be made available to tobacco farmers; this
agreement would be satisfactory to the Association. (Section 3.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
35.       The Project Area.  The Project area would comprise four out of the
five administrative zones of Ituri subregion: Aru, Djugu, Irumu and Mahagi.
Together they cover an area of approximately 29,000 km2 bordering in the north
on Sudan, in the east and south east on Uganda. The population is estimated at
1.6 million: density ranges from about 30 inhabitants per km2 to over 80. The
area is remote: communications, both internally and with other parts of Zaire
are hampered by distance and the very poor state of the transport network.
Nevertheless, Ituri has traditionally been ar important food supplier to the
lowlands of Haut-Zaire. Soil fertility ranges from poor in the southern part of
the Project area to good in the north; the four zones proposed for the Project
are mostly savanna. It is estimated that thE subregion currently supports some
300,000 head of cattle (about one third of the entire national herd), 300,000
goats, 80,000 sheep, 35,000 pigs and an unknown large number of poultry.
Principal foodcrops grown are manioc, beans, sweet potatoes, maize, bananas,
groundnuts and paddy. Most production comes from smallholdings which average
2.5 ha; many of the large farms previously owned by Europeans have been
abandoned. Cash crops are also grown: coffee, tobacco and cotton being the most
economically significant.



- 12 -
36.       The proposed Project would be implemented over a seven-year period and
would include the following main components: (a) a program for the
rehabilitation of veterinary and animal production services and infrastructure
and for the provision of veterinary products (this program would be the
continuation of the one implemented under the Ituri Livestock Project); (b) a
program to provide extension services and agricultural inputs to develop
production of foodcrops and smallholder coffee; (c) human health services; (d) a
basic data study on the major livestock diseases and agricultural activities, to
set up a program to monitor and evaluate the impact of project activities; (e)
other studies, training, pilot activities and trials, including limited
assistance to fisheries and marketing; (f) selective maintenance and
rehabilitation of infrastructure such as roads and bridges; and (g) technical
assistance to the Project Management Unit (BPI) and to ACOOPELI.
Detailed Features
37.       Animal Health and Production.  The objective of this component would
be to reduce cattle mortality and increase birth rates, average cattle weight
and lactation. Project activities would provide a tick control program,
innoculations, veterinary treatments and clinical and animal production advisory
services throughout the Project area. Animal health improvement activities
would be carried out as under the Ituri project except that new dips would not
be constructed pending the results of the basic data study (para. 41), the
first phase of which is being financed under an advance of US$800,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility. During the first two Project years existing dips
would continue to function normally but no new ones would be built unless
recommended in the study. Upon completion of the study, the program to control
ticks and tickborne diseases would be revised as required. Investment items
would include dips (if necessary), spray races, spray pumps, dispensaries,
offices, housing and stores, veterinary products, vehicles for veterinary
personnel, simple laboratory equipment, tools and some incremental operating
costs.
38.       Activities would be undertaken to improve the state of existing
pastures and their impact would be closely monitored. A pilot genetic
improvement program would also be undertaken. A major extension effort would be
made through radio broadcasts, pamphlets and regular extension work to convince
producers of the link between weight gains, lactation, animal health and proper
cattle feeding. The land management section of BPI would continue to set
boundaries and the PRODELS (para. 32) would play a key role in the management of
collective pastures. Other measures would include selection of breeding stock,
castration, cow culling, and supplemental feeding of minerals; improved breeding
bulls would be kept at ACOOPELI's three stations which would also be used for
demonstration purposes. As under the ongoing project, animal production
personnel would supervise rural markets and slaughterhouses. The main
investment items would include vehicles, buildings and other infrastructure,
fencing materials and equipment, and some incremental operating costs.
39.       Crop Development.  The Project would include provisions for increased
food production and improved management of existing smallholders' coffee
holdings. Basic tools would be provided and selected seeds of the main
foodcrops  would be produced and distributed.   Farming systems trials would be
carried out to explore ways of maintaining or improving soil fertility through
adequate crop rotations and the introduction of soil regenerating crops. The
major foodcrops involved would be maize, beans, groundnuts, sweet potatoes,



- 13 -
paddy and millet.  Seeds would be produced at :wo of the ACOOPELI livestock
stations using animal traction and hired labor. The major investment items
would be tools, equipment, buildings, vehicles, materials and supplies, and some
incremental operating costs.
40.       Human Health Services.   Under the proposed Project, provision would
be made on a limited basis for preventive and curative treatments mainly for
malaria, parasites and bronchitis. Funds would be required for medicines and
for the procurement and operation of vehicles for field staff.
41.       Basic Data, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Reliable data on crop
production and livestock diseases in the Project area are lacking. Under the
Project, basic data for livestock activities would be collected through a study
to be conducted in three phases: the first would last about six months and
involve overseas training of personnel, purchase of equipment, renovation of
cattle holding facilities where necessary and selection of study herds. Herd
population, structure and the basic production parameters in the Project area
would also be determined. The second phase wculd be the implementation of an
epidemiological study over a two-year period to collect basic data on the
distribution and impact of tick borne diseases before and after the introduction
of regular dipping. The third phase of the study would comprise a detailed
analysis of these data, the quantification of the benefits obtained and the
formulation of recommendation for future policy on disease control in Ituri and
possibly elsewhere in Zaire. This last phase would take approximately two
months and would be carried out by short-term consultants (para.50).
42         For agricultural activities, the first priority would be to establish
a set of reliable agricultural statistics. This would be followed by the
development of a simple system for reporting key indicators to monitor
implementation of Project activities and their impact on farmers.  A basic
survey to determine the scope and level of agricultural activities in the
Project area would be carried out at the start of Project activities based on a
limited sample of farmers. Subsequently, periodic surveys would be undertaken
to obtain key agricultural indicators. Investment items would include two
four-wheel drive vehicles, high-resolution binocular microscopes, other supplies
and incremental operating costs.
43.       Pilot Activities and Trials.  Funds for preparation of future rural
development programs and for other studies and trials such as pedological
studies, investigations of farming systems, soil erosion and population pressure
on land have also been included in project costs.   Funds would be made
available for the purchase of fishing gear to be sold by ACOOPELI (para. 49) to
fishermen operating on Lake Mobutu. A pilot credit scheme would also be
undertaken (para. 49). For all studies or project preparation work, both terms
of reference and proposed contracts would be submitted to IDA for approval. IDA
would also approve procedures for the selection of consultants to carry out such
studies (para. 50).
44.       Training.  A training program to improve performance of Project staff
would be undertaken for the personnel of BPI, ACOOPELI and PRODEL both on the



- 14 -
job, in appropriate Zairian institutions, and overseas as appropriate. Training
would continue to be provided to farmers and livestock producers under the
current scheme of field seminars held simultaneously for veterinary agents and
livestock producers.
45.       Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Infrastructure.  The poor state of
roads and, in some instances, bridges is a serious impediment to development
activities in the Project area. An infrastructure improvement component is
therefore included to facilitate access to dips and PRODEL warehouses and to
maintain a limited number of frequently used access roads and bridges. The main
investment items would be vehicles, small tools and equipment and incremental
operating costs.
Project Organization and Management
46.       General.  The proposed Project would be managed by the same
institutions and in the same way as the on-going livestock project; a
significant change, however, would be the establishment of an agricultural
department within BPI to manage crop development and to be headed by an
internationally recruited specialist. The on-going project (see paras 31 to 33)
is carried out under the general responsibility of the State Secretary for
Agriculture who presides over a Project Policy and Coordinating Committee which
meets at least once a year. This Committee includes the director of livestock
in the Ministry of Agriculture, the manager and deputy manager of the project,
the director general of ONDE, and representatives from the Ministries of
Finance, National Economy, Interior, Ituri Livestock producers and the
Secretariat for Rural Development. A sub-regional consultative committee
chaired by the sub-regional commissioner and consisting of representatives of
the sub-regional administrative services (under the proposed Project, ACOOPELI
(para. 49) would become a member of this committee) is responsible for
monitoring project implementation, transmitting its observations to the Central
Government authorities, and supporting BPI as appropriate, through
administrative measures; it is convened twice a year and has helped BPI solve a
number of difficult problems. Project implementation is managed by BPI whose
headquarters are in Bunia. BPI is part of MARD but enjoys a considerable degree
of administrative and management autonomy and is headed by an expatriate manager
assisted by a Zairian deputy manager. The manager reports directly to the
director of livestock in MARD. BPI consists of an administration and finance
department and has technical departments for animal health, animal production,
extension and training, construction, and machinery. All these departments are
currently headed by expatriates with one or two Zairian deputies each for the
most part. Subject to satisfactory performance, these national staff members
would be called upon to replace the expatriates at the earliest possible date.
BPI currently provides technical assistance to ACOOPELI in the management of its
livestock stations, its stocks of veterinary products and their distribution, in
the management of the dips and in keeping its accounts in order. The Project
area would be divided into three sectors each headed by a Zairan veterinarian or
zootechnician. Sectors would be further divided into two sections each, the
sections themselves being subdivided into "groupements" (27 in total) which
would be broken down into dispensaries (108 in total). "Groupements" would be
headed by veterinary assistants and dispensaries by 'infirmiers veterinaires"
(veterinary agents). A Project liaison office in Kinshasa would be responsible



- 15 -
for most procurement and logistics matters. Staffing plans would be submitted
to the Association as part of annual work programs and reports (paras. 47-48)
and BPI would maintain in operation the compensation plan established under the
Ituri Livestock project to offer adequate incentives to its staff (Schedule 4
and Section 3.01 (b)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Work Programs and Reports. The Pro.ject would be implemented on the
basis of annual work programs. The programs would serve as a planning,
implementation and monitoring tool and provide the necessary flexibility to
esnsure better Project adaptation to local conditions. Preparation of each
program would coincide with the preparation of the Government's investment
budget. The first draft of the annual work program would be prepared along
with the Government's first budget proposals in the first half of July and
submitted to IDA for preliminary review and comments. Subsequently, an updated
draft would be prepared to reflect the suggestions and amendments introduced by
the Executive Council in September and would be submitted to IDA by the end of
October before the Government's draft budget is transmitted to the Parliament.
IDA's approval of a given annual work program would be a condition of
disbursement for the activities to which this work program applies (paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Each annual work
program would include: (a) a brief evaluation of the previous year's
performance compared to objectives and a discussion of how results obtained are
related to the new program; (b) a description of the program of activities,
including quantified implementation objectives, output performance and project
impact indicators where appropriate; (c) staffing and training plans with a
statement of specific objectives; (d) detailed investment and operating budgets;
(e) a financing plan; and (f) procurement p'ans (Schedule 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
48.       The current BPI system of semi-annual reports whereby a comprehensive
description of all project activities is provided along with an analysis of
major problems encountered and requests for specific decisions to be taken would
be maintained under the proposed Project. These reports would also include a
comparison between actual implementation results and the objectives included in
the annual work program, project impact indicators and a comparison between
actual results and appraisal estimates. The annual work programs and the
semi-annual reports would be an important aspect of Project monitoring and
evaluation activities. BPI would prepare a mid-term report no later than
December 31, 1986 and a Project Completion Report no later than six months after
the closing date. (Section 3.04 (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
49.       ACOOPELI.  Under the proposed Project, ACOOPELI[ would play an expanded
role in livestock and agricultural development activities and in some pilot
programs. It would continue to distribute medicines and expand its activities
to distribute tools and other inputs to farmers and fishing gear to fishermen.
It would also become responsible for the management of the Bunia abattoir after
rehabilitation by CIDA. Completion of satisfactory arrangements for the
transfer of such management to ACOOPELI would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A
major objective in fostering the growth of ACOOPELI is to assist Ituri farmers
to better organize themselves so that they can procure their own inputs and to
provide most of the services now under the responsibility of Government
extension agents; following project completion, ACOOPELI is expected to take
over the maintenance of the roads and bridges rehabilitated under the Project
(para. 45). All implements and equipment (and all inputs for industrial crop
farmers) would be sold to the farmers at full cost, while the Government would
take all appropriate gradual steps to ensure that within five years, prices
charged for other agricultural inputs and the animal disease control program
would be sufficient to recover the full cost (Section 3.09 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).   The revenues from the sale of these products by
BPI to ACOOPELI and the PRODELS would be set aside as counterpart funds in a
special Bank account and used in the pilot credit scheme; credit applications
under this scheme would be reviewed in accordance with criteria acceptable to
IDA by a committee consisting of the accounting and finance manager and another
staff of BPI and the President and the management specialist of ACOOPELI;
disbursements of funds from this account would be subject to IDA's approval
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
50.       Under the ongoing project, the French Ministry of Cooperation (FAC) is
providing a team of experts that includes the project manager, the accounting
and finance manager, the animal production manager, the animal health services
manager, the extension and training manager, the construction manager, and the
chief mechanic.   Although Zairian higher level staff employed by BPI have
performed satisfactorily for the most part, it would be necessary to continue to
provide a team of internationally recruited experts during implementation of the
proposed Project. Training would be an important part of these experts'
responsibilities and all consultants would be gradually replaced by Zairians,
subject to satisfactory performance.   FAC would continue to provide staff for
the posts listed above as well as an agriculturalist to manage the crops
program. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) would provide
expert assistance for ACOOPELI: a management expert to help manage the Bunia
abattoir, a cooperative management expert who would also manage the pilot credit
scheme (para. 43) and a cooperative development expert. A tick specialist
financed by IDA would also be hired for two years to manage the basic survey and
other consultants recruited to analyze the survey results and formulate an
appropriate disease control program. The average man-month cost of the
specialists would vary from about US$6,000 to US$10,000 including salaries,



- 17 -
ovterhead costs, fees, international travel and subsistence. The terms of
reference of all outside specialists not financed by IDA were discussed at
negotiations.  Qualifications,experience and .erms and conditions of employment
of the tick specialist would be satisfactory to the Association. The selection
oE the tick specialist would be made in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants".
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total Project costs are estimated at about US$30.2 million, of which
about US$22.9 million or 75 % represent foreign exchange costs. These costs are
incremental and do not include salaries for the existing work force or recurrent
expenditures to run existing veterinary infrastructure. They do include,
however, BPI headquarter costs which comprise equipment and vehicle maintenance
and operating costs, utility and building maintenance costs and staff salaries.
Project costs were estimated on the basis of prices expected to prevail in
January 1983. A physical contingency of 10% was applied to all Project
investments. Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis at a
rate of 8% for 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 198'S, and 6% p.a. thereafter. The same
percentages have been used for both local and foreign costs under the assumption
that differential in the rate of inflation will be compensated by exchange rate
-adjustments. Taxes and duties included in ]'roject costs are negligible since
the Government will exempt the project from :hese costs.
52.       Financing of Project cost would be shared between the Government of
Zaire, CIDA, FAC, ACOOPELI and IDA in the proportions of 11%, 33%, 10%, 3% and
43% respectively. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.3 million (US$13.0 million)
would finance 100% of foreign exchange and 90% of local expenditures for the
livestock, crop development, human health, pilot activities, research and
training components and BPI operating costs. Local cost financing is justified
by the Government's difficult budgetary situation. CIDA would provide about
US$10 million to finance all foreign exchange and 90% of local expenditures for
technical assistance to ACOOPELI, veterinary products and supplies, marketing,
agricultural tools and studies, equipment arid vehicles on a grant basis. FAC
would provide an estimated US$3.0 million as a grant in the form of technical
assistance to BPI. The Government of Zaire would contribute US$3.3 million and
ACOOPELI US$1.0 million towards local costs.   It would be a condition of
effectiveness that all conditions precedent to the disbursements of the Canadian
and French grants have been met (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government would make its contribution to BPI in four
quarterly instalments no later than the last; day of the first month of each
quarter.  (Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Civil Works.  Civil works totalling about US$1.8 million (including
contingencies), would be procured following the Borrower's bidding procedures,
which are satisfactory, or undertaken by force account if no qualified
contractor bids are received . Goods, equipment, machinery, vehicles and
supplies (except for veterinary drugs as described below) totalling US$10.6
million would be procured following international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Miscellaneous items of equipment, vehicles
and supplies whose individual estimated cost is less than US$300,000 and not
exceeding a total of US$1.5 million would be procured according to local
competitive procedures (bids requested from local firms through notifications in
local newspapers) acceptable to the Association. Because of the risk of the
emergence of tick resistance to acaricides, consideration would be given in
awarding any contract for veterinary drugs to the capacity of the prospective
supplier to manufacture or provide a range of acaricides of differing chemical
structures and to provide back-up laboratory services for checking tick
resistance on a systematic basis; adequate provision would be made in the
bidding documents.
5i.       Funds from the IDA Credit would be disbursed over eight years on the
basis of 100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditures for: (i) civil works,
(ii) equipment, (iii) materials and supplies, and other operating costs, (fuel
and spares), (iv) technical assistance and training and (v) studies, pilot
activities, trials; the advance from the PPF of US$0.8 million would be refunded
under the Credit. Disbursement of IDA funds would be subject to IDA's approval
of annual work programs (paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Disbursements would be fully documented, except those
disbursements for civil works carried out by force account, and incremental
operating expenditures in local currency for which disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditures certified by the BPI's manager and the
accounting and finance manager.
Accounts and Auditing
55.       BPI would maintain separate records and accounts adequate to cover all
Project activities. These separate accounts and the statements of expenditures
would be audited separately by independent auditors acceptable to IDA who would
then submit their report to the Association within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. The auditors would specifically review and comment on the
procedures used for control of disbursements against statements of
expenditures.



- 19 -
Project Benefits and Risks
56.       It is expected that, at full development, annual production of crops
will have increased by 11,500 tons, that of zattle by 23,000 head and that of
rmilk by 2.6 million liters. These increases would derive on one hand from
increased weight gain and offtake combined with lower mortality, and on the
other, from use of improved seeds, more adequate tools, better ground
preparation and more effective farm managemeat. The principal beneficiaries
would be some 7,500 low income livestock producers and 120,000 crop farming
families; at full development, the average income of farmers benefitting from
the projet would be expected to increase by more than 40 percent.   Certain
other benefits which are expected to result from Project activities are
difficult to quantify but would, nevertheless, be significant; they consist of
laying the basis for more effective development efforts in the subregion as a
result of the studies and trials and the strengthening of ACOOPELI. As the
Government would recover the full costs of project inputs (para. 49), and as the
improvement in the cooperative movement organization would reduce the need for
some Government services, such as extension, the overall impact of the Project
on Government finances would be positive. The Project in addition, would have a
positive, though small, effect on the country's balance of payments through the
reduction in imports of meat.
5".       The main risks stem from the general situation of Zaire's economy and
relate to the possibility that foreign exchange may not be available to meet
recurrent needs. The risk of inadequate prcducer prices is mitigated by the
projected rehabilitation of the Bunia abattcir and airstrip which can be
expected to stimulate demand. Also it has been agreed that the Government would
implement its current policy of price liberalization for agricultural and
agro-industrial products in the Project area, review annually the impact of the
policy on the output of such products in the area and exchange views on an
annual basis withi the Bank on the impact of such policy on overall agricultural
production (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). ACOOPELI's
membership in ANEZA, the National Business Association, makes it eligible for
official allocations of foreign exchange. The proposed Project involves no major
technical risks as the proposed livestock program was tested under the first
Ituri project. The crops program is realistic and the projected yields are
comparable to those already achieved elsewhere under similar conditions. The
proposed activities present no foreseeable hazard to the ecology and environment
of the Project area.
58.        The overall economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at
30%. It was calculated on the following assumptions: (a) the economic life of
the Project was assumed to be 20 years; (b) all investments and incremental
operating costs were taken into account including studies, training, technical
assistance, pilot activities, and physical contingencies; (c) incremental
production of crops, except for maize were valued at local market prices and
that for coffee at export parity prices; (d) because Zaire currently imports
substantial quantities of maize and meat, an import parity price was used for
these two commodities; and (e) foreign exchange was shadow priced assuming a
premium factor of 50%. The economic rate of return was estimated for the
livestock component at 36% and for the agricultural component at 17%.



- 20 -
Projected rates of return were tested for sensitivity to changes in benefits,
costs and to delays in Projet start. The results of this analysis indicate that
the Project as a whole is not particularly sensitive to cost increases or
benefit decreases but that the agricultural component is relatively sensitive to
those two factors.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
60.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (i) completion
of satisfactory arrangements for the transfer of the management of the Bunia
abattoir to ACOOPELI (para. 49) and (ii) that all conditions precedent to the
disbursement of the grants from Canada and France have been met (para. 52).
Approval of a given annual work program would be a condition of disbursement of
IDA funds for the activities to which this work program applies (para. 47).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 11 , 1983
Washington, D. C.



- 21-                                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                           Page  1  of  5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. M.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2345.4                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     154.8               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USe)                   90.0       140.0     220.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      95.5        103.2     100.1                  66.5                  610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 17756.0      21638.0   28291.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7         21.6      34.0                  17.8                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       51.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        156.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                         7.6         9.2      11.7                  27.7                   54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    120.2        143.1     177.7                  86.7                  129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1         44.3      44.7                  44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                         S2.9         52.9      52.5                  52.3                   51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0          2.8       2.8                   2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2          2.0       2.7                   2.7                    2.8
URBAN                               ..          5.2       7.2                   6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0          47.2      45.9                  47.3                   47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.3         21.5      17.9                  19.5                   15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0          3.0       3.0                   3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         101.0        101.0      88.0                  88.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   98.3        101.3     102.4/c                90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          35.9         37.4      35.77T                53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.1         12.7       9.9T                 18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     32.7         27.5      21.9                  26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0         42.7      47.1                  45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          150.0        132.0     112.0                 129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         11.0      16.0/d                23.9
URBAN                               ,,         33.0      43.0oT                54.9
RURAL                               ..          4.0       5.oTd                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          5.0      22.0/e                25.8
URBAN                                .,         5.0      65.07d                63.1
RURAL                               ..          5.0       6.0Tc                20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         37621.6    30136.5   15529.3                 32097.3                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3511.7       2294.6    1619.9                3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            230.9        320.0     339.0                1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                              57.2        96.8     144.9                 249.5                  430.8
RURAL                            770.5       1066.7    2623.4                1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..          6.1
RURAL                               ..           ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..



- 22 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                        Page  2  of  5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  60.0         88.0      90.0/c                 63.2                    83.3
MALE                  88.0        110.0     103.0/7                 72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                32.0         65.0      77.o07E                50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          9.0      19.0/c                 10.2                    15.3
MALE                   4.0         13.0      23.o0T                 13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0      14.07k                  6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 26.5             9.6       13.2/c                 7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.9         42.6        ..                   47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                           20.3         20.4      27.0/c                 26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         31.3/f       13.0      57.9                   34.0                    35.6
CONSU.MPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          3.0       3.6/                   3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          2.9       4.9                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.3       0.3                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    1.2          9.2       1.6                    2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1            0.1       0.1/g                  1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8215.5       9464.8   11636.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.4         44.5      42.6                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0         79.0      75.0                   78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.0         11.0      13.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.3         43.7      41.1                   41.4                    37.0
MALE                                  51.9         49.8      48.0                   53.9                    46AQ
41.2        38.0       34.5                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      80.0/e                 82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      76.0/e                 96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      43.07                 60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      80.0/e                 69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1974.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
IEITOSf SOCIAL. INBrib_TORE                                                                     Page    3   of    5
Notes:  Altbogh th   aaae d-     ra..t  .cu. sac.c..  genraly judged the nea  authoritative and  eiable.  it should also ho voted that they say sat be inter-
natia-elY  -osarble b-toao-o  clvh  iluc  .i standard.ized drf,iuit-u  and cu-cefta used by di fo...t c.......aolecin  the  aa   Th   at   re,  oe
thale..t. uncladto d-urbh  -rdeva of  aguitude. iudi-lcat-edi. aod char.c -eiocca rain noI or dIffrecc  hbteet....
Thrv~Et-r-c  g-uny  ar. (1) the  -aoacocllc gI Iyf rho -osl - ac -c-tv  ad (2) a toantry  roof1 mitt a--oha  highe c --nrge income  hOt ahe vacuIty gr-op
of rho _ubjoc suavIty(roc for   'tIt Inton    01  duprror-' groc  clrbe-                   dl   ocm   Narrh Africaad  Puddle  ae,          ucoe   oon   feruo
noclo-culucuf affulrlon).   v dr volcroucr gvcf dataIi.e  uecgo  er   uoelnnlhe    rithetc_            cr  for eah ldic-to  und thos   alyco
majority ofthe cuovtven lu a cruy tat doacfor chtidicaov.  Sit-ue thec,      rgerI uf,  cruvvo  ono-  the indical-- depouds un thc  -nlahiliyofdt
Illudicocor at a tine aetg the crac-y ard voerecte-  grocp..h_e  I
affa  (Ihunsaud-Vlli~ ihdr- nq.km.l                                                              foya_Llticofrftia   a  -ttl   ra   e  vcl-Ppla    (soble,
Trial -loyal srface aea cumetuita  aud are  aud luaud aurra; 197  duta.crseu19ed rura) dlulddd by abl r crpocalp-                 nochec  f hospIal bed
hy o  lest  ue  lytcla. ilnalinhennst proiding-  priu-elplfy  -asIo-
INP PER1000 (C1$)TA       itP le, cactta rat iscaatcreY abo    rco,ct- lae one so prcyoded  E-vul hospIt,   homeverIg, incldebri
collcId bytucaosicmehda  uIhnkAn  ;17g1k2 hauls)  -930                                            aol mediclr cener  cri_       martystfe   b      hsiin(hth 
197,  audI 9l0.data.                                                                              se8icbl.assistan0,   ace, Rid -If  etc)Paichoff-er  a-alenersn-
I  . 11   - Ih.d .. W-Ld  ~           ~          ~          ~         dantad  ooid  aIsiedvageofnd                  tafciiia..Fovatetll-
1N111Y COlUIffT0fcN Pft CAPITA -  uudcoopioc   cmeca   nvy(oilclprsssobaheiasicuoufItib f ,ihylpa ifg                                                               tiersl hopitls
tricity)iv kilugemo of nAi ooicdeo   or-cpit;  90_       170   nd179cntr.. d ipleSided hospitals_, aeIncluded onyase  st
dota.                                                                         adeisainus per onfital Sad    Total nmber of admissions n  ort di_hage
Tota  Popietoc.  lidLeer(flao     P.,  Isoflip 1; 19ff. 1970, and 1979gli
dora.                                                                 hooc~~~~Ageus  o                           -eshl   pesn   e  houehld) -bl total  acso  ad  ar
aeogcotre;  Yi,170   n                     A*1 data                                            tie basneb96d  bc9itetidt19a0  forpune
Popodatiosyro)ccnisn                                                              Anesage  ettee of prnons pertout-tuned  aches, ad caral -  verage to
iota) pufulttoc hy 7ag  anlenndl  tormotltyadfetlt   verve.                             d aclios  rianp l-tAnei    .. dwllrg   eecldeut-ptrmeuoeIlltbtoitlcenad 
lie1  anIdfeirltevenoy  alblr   a1lil 7.5d foersilitya pasLrnninldelig                                             ilra9iiyi 0hougborrrsatpotestege
coer -fr -ort -c raotn    orrhn    ae-asocfdcaol                                       ofIIor-. arIas   an  laral d       -cfg   repe ..l..
fertlit   acordia t  inonelenl  an  past-_liy                                                         P "Isugptpi"ace
a                        Lath contirn  in thou ass ~igudceol       heeaohat rtion  of-I meI_li                    ifhhIdif
sod fertility  trends fur yccircraan forfasas.                              aditated inculimest prt-aislio-nEl.tliSi
ytatasar  piplatas -do astatasoy  osolatos tereis s  groto eateP,-iocp  choo  -  atal  mal audfemle -Iron  lani,  olepnd fmal
IeIn_h ia   2dTbndtorteoeccieo                    feId     rrlrpiee                           sadaycai-  ie,mleadfcd   - Conpatod-I   en- cher   ondr
Ocarl~ steno ia aepadalar I  ceonhr  -le   pa  ela  avn lnac  poplator                            ravdrognol   aeivl   rrco   tosu    naal sttppi
ala  ofe hIcfchd.                                                                      seoiyof  7 1f17yann  f oe;  aronpndtTecnCeseo  gnaali
Ppltdcsfossiljy                                                                                   colluded.,
calf  .9f  190  cud d97911f -ata.                            dc-cr00tt   ce                                    a,.- prmty and spcoday  -   I- Pural_uet  tahdi
Iopoltho  ro     Lc  (p othe    -f ud-ai- dosa  g.et.atsafchotyp-                          O"dfTff
pad -in  19000h92,  ed13   ae                                                                i-tec   vehicles.-Ie
Crod  loahRt (mra.av(-AsalOob  prr  hacated of                           I-uid'-yav          a h fcinr            (per 1taa    II ppl1a-eot) - Aidlyaofrcoesoredis.h.la
copafaric; IfhC  1070. ad 1990  ata.                                   f-edn_altnto   goard   abi  per             -  Plasaoeo rosois  eb"';aden as-
he   omlvrvdcdcpoidi   b  apcact  rso   g-sa   i   a                                          scamni  eflecI;b data  or cellsl yasnynth   o1rhei
t   ili l lar;le iofn-crenvgar  ig1   91  190,et-11.dou.canresabolished..icessing.
Pof iu b-oovo  deP"""" auio   tntindfad    iooo   r1e.                                             cclph              perthosa       r tsyiaion;l ot aIsdn  afoase  095 roncpne
Famiy rinosa - soc  (~p-arcei o    are   oe)-  ecnacfac PIstosolrted    u   npaa  hargucaimo   ' ne-s manis a(env.l
prodoclion of all 19ac  c dsdlrto.   Prdcou   arlda1ed  c  ne   ndSkts tol dopa-,g rho  .ra. oIed-udi-gadinnis   I    ieislnea
doteda  saa)eih  r   dbrar   alio-cat   eg.cfa   n
100 at an ludd) .  hggcgetrpctdainrof ech cevtt  shsda                         12 P~IRCOl-                                                    dht   IIld
nertosalasaregepnodocaypvlcemoight; lhI-     Itl970  an  1ff d-yate.,              -o ilbrFre (rbYniouds   di-             . bcsciy ect"bIvo peruses. incitheg
'I"yenveoro   etfo   op -rdcadad   i  oncc   otapia-oei-ng i pplatllso   f   gs    effIm n   oin   oace   c
qnn Iato-nEd is    50(out p 1960a 70g -cd lassos0 undsctaro.Otie-.guclceIocu                                           I - eb tfoc  ho   Il far ltg   o ly    otu   e
mntset ostiaed6 y  l  tsats1bcsadgtc  red   arnoml                     -          C      fSCPishs   spracg   f  os   aoNot;161   90ed1                           aa
aiyo    r-ith    e co ...d...v  -n-ico Am ..ca I tesrrocr,hdycih te   g                    noor   poe)-lbrfrt   nssm, coosYcall io d manf-are
hmasebid. 1onsi; 191 .17 o19970 dots.               l                                           1933-e   f-dy  Rr  2, 1972  'hd 193. dae
alocsosf62 gr7er ad ro1980        l  pldyad22gooo   uda   u                               92  d9-2  and lNgdr. ms   r   oe   n  i'   atoptodes
Perclitaycorfc  o                  if io  ioma nod pais  -ISteteisopply-orfood de
dyd  cu  vmasae   oie  isllgreso per-9.  -day  1t1h 1      970  Po  i9Pdae             5_00fSTfCfO
tries data derived from ffe tables; 1930, i971 and1900  data.                    of hoostalProlda.Y
fecf.Tff                                                                     P091155 CT 0111ff IlfyCyl~~~~~~~al  190                  bt b
at bitrth;t6,IOed 132.at.aa  sood_e  ab reds1                                                                                    hcosierh e     aaaist
ol ageper toosaudlIoc  ictIu 19017  sd191dae                                           obs 1inie  psert incom  led   i  tb    ncmelevlhaodhihamiia
Access t   aic  ao   rreto   aoots  .ttl,ohr   o   oa      rm                                    ucioel -a-Ii-ldeunaa fel piseIese  sosfodoqloes-d rsIn n
he dfpgpa(otl   rhc   o grorol  mitt  resltsylnlns                                                                          legCotdabla.I
pearotees  f arivcsyetin   pouiciose   Isen  che  eoeapsllcperobm  tlyomi of   ppbe b  Itsay   U-rban 9 l              -o  a Is  eren  Irat she_ asaei
coss-ider Id em beingsti  rosal    Foeso  ta   aso    nrra   a                               PotmaedPssllin  als  bnle -t `en                 tity Iosm  levekcrcnf    ae
reaseaheaoonsesidd,lyaba..l Pr -  .osomlvm  mmbn  al                      e nb   socsl  d           rrL -   cos  o  p         apulasa ,_ (urba  asd . rual   'es acII hsl
ido nr  er af   a npndd   -pdpcioi-a -- per  a   _bdy   is  obin  sh                           pav' Il .         igle-,i1.igdi.                         -d
...s mturt  Pidad ossAgg vegrocup ofd- cleios -f total. urher, a         lccad
thP edleA-iananlbl       osle    ms  oc...er         tce      rywn  of r is Ie esocoas.                                  Yd   teljij'l
maeadIedlegae so asass Ne_alstsw  torsos  practical9teases                                                                                          ..d
esreieas.didficloe



- 24 -
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                                         ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 5
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
Amount
(million US$ at   Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)   Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)             (at current prices)             (at constant 1970 prices
1981                            1981                  1979       1980       1981
Gross Domestic Product 2/           5,384.1                          100.0                   0.3        2.4        2.4
(GDP Commercialized)               (4,222.5)                         (78.4)                 (0.2)      (2.4)       2.4
Agriculture                       1,722.2                           32.0                   3.1        2.8        2.7
Industry (incl. mining)           1,269.5                           23.6                 -6.1        4.4        4.8
Services                          2,183.7                           40.6                  4.6        0.1        0.4
Consumption                         4,717.3                           87.6                 -3.6         7.2        6.8
Gross Investment                    1,361.2                           25.3                  56.8      172.4      -49.8
Exports of GNFS                       966.7                            18.0               -21.0        23.8     -44.6
Imports of GNFS                     1,661.1                           30.9                   7.7     222.0        62.8
Gross national savings                347.1                             6.4                  6.0     -41.3        57.3
PUBLIC FINANCE 3/ (Central Government)
(million Z)                 % of GDP
A c t u a 1             (at market prices)
1979            1980           1981       1979         1981
Current revenues                             1,944.4          3,777.4         4,781.5       17.5        20.3
Current expenditures                         2,391.7           3,850.4        5,964.0      21.5         25.3
Current dificit                                447.3              73.0        1,182.5       4.0          5.0
Capital expenditures                           129.3             246.4          539.7        1.2         2.3
Overall deficit                                576.6             319.4        1,722.2       5.2          7.3
MONEY, CRLDIT AND PRICES                                          1979             1980          1981
(million Z outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                           2,084.9           3,367.3       4,644.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                    2,062.2          2,329.4        3,783.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                     878.7           1,014.3       1,342.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP -
market prices)                                18.8               19.6              19.7
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100) 4/           912.7            1,313.3          1,813.1
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Index                         101.3               43.9             38.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    30.7               13.0              62.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   37.1               15.4              32.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/    1981 figures are preliminary.
2/    At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/    Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and exnenditures
financed by foreign sources.
4/    Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
December 17, 1982



- 25 -                                     ANNEX I
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                          Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                              1979         1980         1981
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                 1,914.6      2,088.4      1,589.5
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.              (1,834.0)   (1,954.9)   (1,494.0)
Imports of goods and services                 1,967.3      2,219.9      2,196.7
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.              (1,106.9)   (1,201.3)   (1,096.6)
Private transfers (net)                         -96.6        -74.9        -82.5
Current Account Balance                        -149.3       -206.4       -689.7
Official grants (net)                           164.1        208.2        188.7
Public Capital (net)                            -49.6        -23.8       -159.2
Private Capital (net) and errors and
omiss ions                                   -220.4       -280.1        -66.0
SDR Allocation  1/                               20.4         20.8         18.9
Other Financing -                               282.8        265.5        490.5
Change in net international reserves            -48.C        -31.8        216.8
(_ = increases)
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                     i; 1.00 = SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                   2. 1.00 = SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                     F. 1.00 = SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                 7. 1.00 = SDR 0.158
A1ERAGE EXCHANGE RATES:
1978                                                USS 1.00 = T 0.836
1979                                                lJS$ 1.00 = E 1.729
1980                                                US$ 1.00 = Z 2.800
1981                                                IJS$ 1.00 = 2 4.384
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1981)                          Million US$            7
Minerals and Petroleum                               1,270.7             85.1
Others                                                 222.9             14.9
Total                                             1,493.6             100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1981 2/                      (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                       4,254.0
Non-Guaranteed                                        350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                       4,604.0
3/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 -                           7
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                           14.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                              3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                                          Million  US$
(As of September 30, 1982)                          IBRD                 IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                             76.94             200.31
Undisbursed                                          0                 237.67
Outstanding, incl. Umdisbursed                      76.94              437.98
1/  Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency assistance, and
profit on gold sales.
2/  Preliminary estimates.
3/  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
Represents actual payments.
December 1482



- 26 -           ANNEX II
Page e1of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1982)
Loan or
Credit       Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ million
Number       Year       Borrower                    Bank         IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport        91.58 2/
1960       Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                           100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                    119.50             0.14
571        1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II                26.00            1.51
624        1976       ZAIRE       Education II                 21.00          19.24
660        1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                  8.00            3.57
697        1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00            1.61
710        1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                   10.00           0.27
796        1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                      9.00            8.09
902        1979       ZAIRE       Railways                     20.00          13.28
916        1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                   26.00          10.34
998        1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance           18.50          12.37
1040        1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize            11.00            9.85
1089 5/    1981        ZAIRE       Kwilu Ngongo Sugar           21.66           17.50
1152 5/    1981        ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu                  2.57            2.55
Technical Assistance
1180 4/ 5/ 1982        ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization         24.23           24.23
1224 4/ 5/ 1982        ZAIRE       Shaba Power System           17.59          17.59
Rehabilitation
1241 4/ 5/ 1982        ZAIRE       Water Supply II              17.47           17.47
1244 4/ 5/ 1982        ZAIRE       Agriculture T.A.              4.92            4.92
1264 4/ 5/ 1982        ZAIRE       Second Cotton                10.70          10.70
1273 4/ 5/ 1982        ZAIRE       Sixth DFC                    21.19          21.19
1290 4/ 5/ 1983        ZAIRE       Highways V                   41.39           41.39
Total (less cancellations):                        191.58       438.72          237.31
- of which has been repaid                      114.64          0.74
Total now outstanding:                            76.94       437.98         237.67
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, has closed with undisbursed balance
of US$80,000 which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has several withdrawal
applications pending which, when paid, will leave a balance of about
US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed but is not yet effective.
Y/ Computed at the September 30, 1982 rate.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                           Page 2 of 8
Amount sold:                      54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 76.94     437.98
Total Undisbursed:                                 0.0                 237.67
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                             Type of         Amount in US$ Millions
Year        Obligor               Business        Loan  Equity   Total
1970         Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC             -     0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -           2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Com?any  1.61   -           1.61
1983        Nord-Sud Industrie-ROHSTOFF GMB]I        0.23   -       0.23
Total gross commitments                 4.34  0.76    5.10
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                               2.88   -       2.88
Held by IFC                             1.46  0.76    2.22
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of September 30, 1982
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: tlecember 31, 1982
The project included: (a) techrLical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link, Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the ]3xecutive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and :Ln particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                      Page 3 of 8
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. Overall
project execution is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit is expected to
close as scheduled.
Credit 624-ZR          Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consisted of construction and equipment for five new
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high inflation, the total cost of the
project substantially exceeded available funds. Fellowships training of teachers
and several preinvestment studies have been successfully carried out.
Consideration was given to revising the project to eliminat civil works and in
their place supply equipment to agriculture technical schools. After a review
of this possibility, it was determined that the Government would be unable to
satisfactorily implement a revised project. The project was therefore closed on
September 30, 1982 and undisbursed credit funds of about US$19.0 million will be
cancelled.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices have been increased since 1981 in nominal terms. Efforts now
focus on converting Coton-Zaire from a public to a mixed-capital company, like
those that handle cotton promotion elsewhere in Zaire and which are to be
supported by IDA's Second Cotton Project (Cr. 1264-ZR). Continuity of effort
and support for area cotton farmers are at stake in view of the credit's
end-1982 closing date. Government is now negotiating with possible private
sector partners. The Government has requested a postponement in the closing
date and the matter is under review.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
-29 -
Credit 697-ZR           Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs.   Despite slow project start-up and continuing
constraints related to high rates of inflation, low prices for beef in some
areas, late receipt of government counterpart funds impressive results have been
achieved. They include: (i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and
livestock extension service; (ii) the implementation of a training program for
extension officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a
livestock producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products;
(iv) vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of
the project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets. Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on support to rural institutions such as cooperatives, and on
rehabilitation and maintenance of marketing infrastructure and activities.
Credit 710-ZR          Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December .3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.  In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices.  In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects.  The credit will close at end 1982 as scheduled.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                                 Page 5 of 8
Credit 796-ZR            Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills until 1982. The second company has
placed equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting
and oil mill rehabilitation program. Cancellation of BADEA's $4.4 million credit
on August 10, 1982 will force a revision of cost estimates and the financing
plan. It may be possible to accomodate these without major disruptions as a
result of savings in oil-mill rehabilitation.
Credit 902-ZR            Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. The Project scope is likely to require revision as a result of
the recent decision of the Saudi/OPEC Fund to suspend disbursements following
Zaire's reestablishment of diplomatic relations with Israel.



Page 6 of 8
Credit 916-ZR           Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by
the EEC Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund
for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengtheaing and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/
rehabilitation program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully
operational. However fuel shortages have in the past months endangered
seriously the execution of the program and, maintenance objectives for 1982 will
not be achieved. Solutions are being studied to overcome the problems created
by the Saudi Fund's decision to suspend disbursements on its remaining balance.
Credit 998-ZR:         Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: Jaruary 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of September 30,1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component and US$1.6 million for the working
capital component . Disbursement of crecLit funds is expected to accelerate
rapidly in the latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval
of sub-projects and the placement of orders. Comments on SOFIDE are reflected
under Credit 710-ZR.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize P'roject: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Eiffective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultu2-al Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing
sector; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities. Project implementation is
proceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems.
Maize output increased by about 30,000 tons in the first agricultural year - far
in excess of projections; fertilizer and seed demand are very strong and credit
repayments are good. The principal problem is weak Government budgetary
support, notably failure to provide PMKC, the implementing agency, with
fertilizer as agreed.  PMKO also has had personnel and procurement problems.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                           Page 7 of 8
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project aims at increasing sugar production through the
rehabilitation and expansion of factory, field and transportation capacity and
also at promoting foodcrop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily; procurement and disbursement are well advanced. It is expected
that factoryu rehabilitation and expansion will be completed one year ahead of
schedule and field rehabilitation according to schedule; construction of housing
and offices is nearly completed.  Foreign exchange allocations have been below
agreed levels and the Project entity has had to purchase foreign exchange on the
parallel market. Supervision missions have discussed the matter with Government
but have met with no success. However, Project implementation will not be
delayed by this problem.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit was declared effective on July 7, 1982. CODAIK, the
mixed capital development company has been established, technical assistance has
been recruited and the Government is reviewing the 1983 work program.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million
Effective Date: October 5, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
This Credit was declared effective on October 5, 1982.
Credit 1264-ZR:        Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project: US$11.3 Million
Credit of August 6, 1982; Terminal Date for
Effectiveness: January 21, 1983; Closing Date: June 30,
1986.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1244-ZR:        Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project:US$19 Million of
June 9, 1982; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: December
15, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
- 33 -
Credit 1241-ZR       Second Water Supply Project: US$18 Million Credit of May 5,
1982; Effective date: November 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986
This Credit was declared effective on Nbkvember 5, 1982.
Credit 1244-ZR:    Agriculture Technical Assistance Project: US$5 Million Credit
of May 20, 1982; Effective Date: November 30, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
This Credit was declared effective on November 30, 1982.
Credit 1273-ZR:    Sixth DFC Project: US$ 21.5 Mi:Llion Credit of August 6,
1982; Terminal Date for Effect:iveness: March 7, 1983; Closing Date:
December 3, 1986.
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
ZAIRE
Northeast Rural Development Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification             1980-81 in the course of implementation
of the Ituri Livestock Project
(b)  Project Preparation:   1980/81
(c)  Appraisal Mission:        November 1981
(d)  Negotiations:              November 29 to December 1, 1982
(d)  Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness: May 30, 1983
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Agreement between BAT and BPI concerning foodcrop development
activities to be subject to IDA's approval (para. 34);
(b)  Government to ensure full cost recovery of (i) implements and
equipment to farmers and (ii) other agricultural inputs and
animal disease control program within five years (para. 49);
(c)  Revenues from the sale of products to ACOOPELI and PRODELS to be
set aside and used for pilot credit scheme with disbursements
subject to IDA's approval (para. 49).
(d)  Government to make its contribution to BPI in four quarterly
instalments no later than the last day of the first month of each
quarter (para. 52);
(e)  Government to implement its current price liberalization policy
in the Project area and to consult regularly with IDA concerning
the impact of this policy on agricultural and livestock
production (para. 57).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(a) Completion of satisfactory arrangements for the transfer of the
management of the Bunia abattoir (para. 49);
(b) cross-effectiveness of agreement with Canada and France (para.
52).
Condition of Disbursement:
IDA approval of annual work program (para. 47).
r



IL-



IBRD  16239
3Q'                                                                                               M-rch 0Q82
ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT/
ITURI I PROJECT                                                               SUDAN  N
*  ~~~0oM0d D ~,pr                                                                 |                                 //
O      o,pr od e du Rt                                                         -    _ -
*      Mdreers                                                               rw/ 
[|     Acoopel L-t-,ock and Feed Formo-r                                                                       /
CMa mum Citie. De.-ty Atcor                                                              c
CGop GOo,-g Aos-
31:  A-b-,c  Coffee)                                                                                dr
CoMons                                                         I                              AeI
_    Mporo Roode                                                       /1          Mo?          Wd)  /.
, ,b - rog.oc-l roodqcorterr                                        _'
O      Zone Heodqororrrs                                     q/*                          I         *dr
O     Towe-r
- -    Zone BoI,ndorleries                                L            y ~ -         O         /           I
~ ~ ~ ~ Sub roo.oncl Bor,raor.er               rw         0,  m.                                          ~      X                                  
-   Reo,ocol Boounor  \<AdFa<R o-C=
--    !oternorconoI bounda.res  
Sr ES                                               1                                   cree             _ j 
'04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'O~~~~~ 20;                               ); '0 50A                         bs    f/         
"ILES2 0                            '-                      ..;  00                             t
Ht~~~~~~~~~~cee \ecrdchc ('  ,;,s-b I                                 art      ;/ ache/dy
p f //No      0 B _f                  hdMcndecsteo dorc map       0          e      
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co,ti cor) fra,rod                                                B re   ,, 40010\                        
>  (;:  _  >    v    0   T h   3-T-              ji                                 1, tJ   i?   sL           X     _           a      tEDdIrrdOt00 Oe/do? cara o
>,   y           <           t    S     p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o rWorrld oraoks'e'oddthreoteor ofOBI '   r0<                
cc acceTrete e cfccOicdcoGADe 2
!   r   X f   !                     dw nrdr 3mpxK on thr part of rhEe  *   X   ANGbt A   <t,  9              L rb P-k-
>   JOt X                s0,/ugmntr te/gfGtftYrf                                                            r-     ZAEl \XA



