Document of                          F
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4103T-.ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 12, 1983
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Exchange Rates as at February 22, 1980
1 zaire = 0.35 dollars
1 dollar = 2.86 zaires
Exchange Rates as at August 20, 1981
1 zaire = 0.18 dollars
1 dolla.r = 5.5 zaIres
WEIG_TS AND MEASURES
Metric system                              English/American Equivalents
1 hectare (ha)                                   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                                 0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                                  2.20 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (tm)                                2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ACOOPELI                        Association des Cooperatives d'Eleveurs de
l'Ituri
BAD/FAD                         Af'rican Development Bank/African Development
Fund
BDPA                            Bureau pour le Développement de la
Production Agricole
BPI                             Bureau du Projet Ituri
CG                              Consultative Group
CIDA                            Canadian International Development Agency
CIMMYT                          International Center for Maize and Wheat
Development
(Centro Internacional para el Mejoramiento
del Malz y Trigo)
ERF                             Economic Recovery Funds
FAC                             French Ministry of Cooperation (Fonds d'aide
et de Coopération)
INERA                           National Institute for Agricultural Research
and Studies
MURD                            Department of Rural Agricultural Development
OR                              Office des Routes
PAM                             Minimum Agricultural Program
PNM                             National Maize Program
PROD'EL                         Promotion pour la Defense de l'Elevage
PRONAM                          Programme National Manioc
SOPFIDE                         Ec:onomic Development and Finance Company
UNDP                            UrLited Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR (COVL'JR-ENT OF ZAIRE)
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT/ITURI II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
I   -  BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background                                             1
B.  Sector Background                                              2
C.  Institutions for Agricultural and Rural Development            9
D.  Government Strategy for Agricultural Development              12
E.  Bank Group Support for Agriculture                            13
II  -  PROJECT AREA
A.  Location and Physical Characteristics                         14
B.  Socio-cultural Aspects                                        15
C.  Production Systems                                           16
D.  Marketing                                                     19
E.  Ongoing Activities in the Project Area                       21
F.  Rural Institutions                                           21
III - THE ITURI LIVESTOCK PROJECT
A.  Project Background and Objectives                             21
B.  Preliminary Results                                          22
C.  Project Impact                                                24
IV  -  THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and General Description                           25
B.  Detailed Features                                            26
C.  Project Costs                                                30
D.  Financing                                                    31
E.  Procurement                                                  32
F.  Disbursements                                                33
G.  Accounts and Auditing                                         33
H.  Environmental Impact                                         34
V   -  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Organization and Staff                                       34
B.  Management of Project Components                             35
C.  ACOOPELI                                                     39
VI  -  TECHNICAL FEATURES, PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
A.  Technical Features                                           41
B.  Production                                                   43
C.  Markets and Prices                                           43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
VIII - PROJECT JUSTIFICATION & ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  Justification & Benefits                                      44
B.  Economic Analysis                                             45
VIII - SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS            47
Table 1   -   Project Cost Summary and Detailed Cost Tables
Table 2   -   Estimat:ed Disbursement Schedule
Table 3   -   Economic Analysis
Table 4   -   Governræent Project Related Cash Flow
Table 5   -   ACOOPELI Cash Flow
Table 6   -   Project: Implementation Schedule
Table 7   -   Meat Price Structure
Table 8   -   Cattle Production Parameters
Annex 1   -   Annual Work Programs
Chart 1   -   Organization Chart of Ministry of Agriculture,
Rural Development, Environment, Wild Life and
Tourisni.
Chart 2   -   Organization Chart of BPI
mAPS      -   IBRD 16239 : Existing and Proposed Development
Activities
IBRD 16240 : The Project Area
Implementation Volume
1. Livestock Development Program
2. Crop Production
3. Economic Analysis Sensitivity Analysis
4. Marketing and Prices



ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I - BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01     The Ituri Livestock Project -  Cr.697-ZR, (Chapter III) was
conceived as a long term development program and thus it was anticipated
from the beginning that it would be followed by one or more successive
phases. The proposed North East Rural Development Project would be such a
continuation and would aim to improve the productivity of farmers'
agricultural holdings. The proposed Project was prepared by the bureau
pour le Développement de la Production Agricole (BDPA), a French consulting
firm, and reviewed by officials of the relevant Zairian ministries, staff
of the on-going project and by IDA staff.
1.02     This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
which visited Zaire in October-November 1981, composed of B. Mbida-Essama,
A. de Largentaye, R. Egli, D. von Samson and J. Houston (IDA, Washington).
Representatives from CIDA (Canadian International Development Agency), and
the French Ministry of Cooperation also participated in the mission. The
only significant change made to proposals in the preparation report is the
introduction of an investigative component during the first two years
concerning ticks, tick-borne and other diseases and the resulting possible
change in the disease control program design that will be based on the
results of the investigation.
1.03     This would be the tenth project financed in the agricultural
sector by the Bank Group for a total of US$119.6 million (including about
US$16.5 million under two SOFIDE projects). Total costs for these
projects, including cofinancing, amount to about US$294.6 million.
1.04     The first such project was for Livestock Development
(Cr.398-ZR for US$8.5 million); it was approved in 1973 and was fully
disbursed in early 1982. Its objectives were the rehabilitation of three
large, commercial ranches in the Shaba Region and the development of ONDE,
a parastatal with responsibility for ranch management and general support
to the livestock subsector. The project experienced serious implementation
difficulties and results are mixed: the most positive achievement has been
the development of ONDE as a worthwhile, Zairian institution. A Project
Completion Report is being prepared. The Ituri Livestock Development
Project (Cr.697-ZR for US$8.0 million), approved in mid-1977 focuses on
rehabilitation and development of the traditional livestock economy in
north-east Zaire. This project is reviewed in more detail in Chapter III.
A Cotton rehabilitation project (Cr.660-ZR for US$8.0 million) was approved
in 1976 to support smallholder cotton production in the Ubangi area of
Equateur Region in north-west Zaire. This project also met serious
difficulties resulting from the establishment of new institutions and the
definition of new policies, all of which took time. However, the chianges



-2-
introduced have been positive. Private sector involvement in the subsector
has been encouraged and project implementation has shown marked
improvement. An oil palm project approved in 1978 (Cr.796-ZR for US$9.0
million) aimed at rehabilitating Zaire's palm oil subsector through support
to the three principal producers, mainly for critical import needs.
Project implementation encountered serious delays, the most significant
ones due to difficulties in finalizing financing arrangements between the
Government and the companies involved and the need to clarify complex
cofinancing arrangements.  However, project implementation is now underway
and is expected to proceed without further serious difficulties. A
smallholder maize project for the Kasai Oriental Region (Cr. 1040-ZR for
US$11.0 million), effective in November 1981, is designed to develop an
effective input distribution and extension system to support smallholder
production in a key maize-producing area. There were some start-up
difficulties and implementation may pose continuing logistic and input
supply problems.  However, farmers are displaying keen interest in
purchasing both fertilizer and improved seeds. A project to support
Zaire's largest sugar company at Kwilu-Ngongo in Bas Zaire was approved in
December, 1980 (Cr. 1089-ZR for US$26.4 million).  Implementation began on
schedule and is not expected to face serious problems. The operation
promises to result in significant increases in sugar production for
domestic consumption. Finally, a pilot project (Cr. 1152-ZR for US$2.9
million) to establish a mixed capital company for rural development in the
Kwango-Kwilu Region of Bandundu was approved in May, 1981 (Cr. 1152-ZR for
US$2.9 million). The Credit became effective in July 1982. The
agricultural activities supported by SOFIDE (para 1.43) include a series
of medium-scale loans to commercial enterprises and individuals, notably
for livestock, forestry, and export crop ventures.
1.05     A second cotton project recently approved for US$11.3 million,
aims to strengthen extension services, improve cotton collection and
marketing activities, improve road infrastructure, provide agricultural
inputs and make cotton ginning operations more effective in key cotton
growing areas. A technical assistance project (Cr.1244-ZR for US$5.0
million) to MARD was recently approved. Its main objective is to increase
the Government's capacity for agricultural sector planning, for effective
project implementation and for reviewing key policy issues. Finally, a
sixth line of credit to SOFIDE has recently been approved. It would aim to
support, among other investments, a range of agricultural activities.
Total funds earmarked for agriculture are at least US$7.5 million.
B. Sector Background
General
1.06     Zaire is the third largest country of Africa in area and the fifth
largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$260 in 1980, ranks among the lowest. Total population was about
27 million in 1980, growing at a rate of 2.2 to 2.8% a year. Urban
population, representating about one-third of the total, is growing at a
rate of nearly 8% per annum.
1.07.    Zaire covers about 2.3 million km2 on both sides of the Equator.
Broadly defined, there are four major eco-climatic regions: (a) the rain
forest (Cuvette Centrale) covers about 1.1 million km2, and has a rainfall
of between 1,600 and 2,000 mm a year, a sparse population, a dense forest
that has been barely exploited to date, and poor soils with limited crop



- 3 -
development potential; (b) the areas of mixed forest and savannah, adjacent
to the rain forest, have a rainfall of between 1,000 and 1,600 mm a year,
a denser population than in the rain forest,and manioc as the major crop,
although cocoa and coffee are also grown; (c) the savannah belts north and
south of the mixed forest have a longer annual dry season and less rainfall
overall, a higher population density than in either the rain forest or the
mixed forest, good soils and topography for agricultural development; and
(d) the eastern tropical uplands are mountaineous and plateau areas with
rich volcanic soils in many parts and rainfall of 1,400 to 2,000 mm a year,
the highest rural population density in Zaire and excellent potential for
development of many crops. An estimated 30 - 35% of Zaire's total land is
considered to be suitable for agriculture, but only an estimated 3 - 4% of
the total land area is currently under cultivation or developed as ranches.
1.08.    Agriculture is vital to Zaire's economy.   It provides employment
and support to 70-75% of the active population and represents the main
source of activity for a large segment of the manufacturing sector which
employs an additional 10% of the population. However, its contribution to
GDP and exports has been declining and imports of agricultural products
have been increasing (para. 1.10) as a result of: (i) the overall economic
crisis and the focus on mining and energy development which have prevented
public authorities from devoting the necessary attention and resources to
sector development, (ii) inadequate or unclear Government policies (paras.
1.19, 1.25 - 1.34); and (iii) the weakness of key agricultural institutions
and the neglect they have suffered from the central government.
Particularly serious is the lack of planning and project implementation
capacity, the weakness of basic services and cumbersome and ineffective
budgeting and financial management systems. Zaire's difficulties in
developing agriculture are also caused by the immense size of the country
and the remoteness of the most fertile and productive regions.
1.09.    The share of agriculture in total GDP has averaged about 30% over
the last four years with little or no growth taking place in agriculture
over the last few years despite a moderate expansion in cotton production.
Agriculture's traditional contribution to total exports has decreased
considerably over the past two decades from a high of 39% in 1959 to an
estimated low of about 10% in 1981. Agricultural exports have also
declined in absolute terms from an estimated 433,000 tons in 1968 to about
146,000 tons in 1981.
1.10.    The share of agricultural products in imports increased until 1978
and has gradually been decreasing since. Once a maize exporter, Zaire had
to import 175,000 in 1978 but less than 100,000 tons in the last few
years. It should be emphasized, however, that export as well as import
figures are unreliable given very substantial unofficial trade movements.
Agricultural Production
1.11.    The major crops and products can be classified into five major
categories: (a) food crops; (b) industrial crops; (c) export crops; (d)
forest products; and (e) livestock and fisheries. Although data on these
crops and products are unreliable and often inconsistent, the statistics
provided below are meant to provide some indication of the order of
magnitude and relative importance of different sub-sectors along with
general trends.



- 4 -
1.12.    Food Crops.  The most important staple foodcrops in Zaire are
manioc, maize and rice produced mcstly on small farms in the traditional
sector (para. 1.22).Over the last ten years, the production of foodcrops
has either stagnated or increased at a rate lower than that of the
population.   Reasons for this lack of growth include inadequate production
techniques (para. 1.22), inefficient marketing systems (para. 1.25), and
lack of adequate support from Governuent (para. 1.35). The mnodest
production increases are a result mainly of expanded cultivated areas.
1.13.    Manioc is the most widely produced foodcrop and is cultivated in
all parts of the country. Total production is estimated to have increased
from about 10 million tons in 1970 to about 14 million tons in 1980,
largely through expansion in cultivated areas. The main limiting factors
to increased production have been diseases and the poor quality of planting
material. Work has been carried out on new varieties and techniques but
results are not conclusive and have not been introduced to the farming
population.   Maize, the second most important foodcrop, is grown mainly in
Shaba, Kasai and Bandundu. Total production is believed to have increased
from 500,000 tons in 1977 to about 560,000 tons in 1980. Major constraints
to increased production have been inappropriate price policies, the
difficulty of obtaining fertilizers and improved varieties and the
inability of the government to provide basic extension services. Declining
surpluses have made Zaire dependent on imported maize to feed its urban
population. Rice is an important srop in Equateur, Haut-Zaire and Kivu.
Production has increased from about 180,000 tons in 1970 to an estimated
220,000 tons in 1980. Low yields, and the lack of effective assistance to
farmers in the supply of inputs have contributed to low production
increases. Demand for rice has, however, increased rapidly and imports now
represent about one-fourth of tota:L consumption. Small amounts of other
cereals such as millet, sorghum, wheat and barley are also produced. Sweet
potatoes, beans, fresh vegetables and fruits (notably plantains and
bananas) are also very important crops in some parts of the country.
Improvement in their production is hindered by low yields, poor planting
materials and weak support services.
1.14.    Industrial Crops.  The two most important industrial crops are
cotton, and sugarcane. Seed cotton production has varied from a peak of
180,000 tons in 1959, to an estimated 29,000 tons in 1980. This latest
increase is mainly due to recent measures affecting cotton companies (para
1.30). Cotton is grown mainly in Equateur, Haut-Zaire, Kasai-Oriental and
Kivu, almost entirely by smallholders. Productivity has remained
relatively constant at 0.3 tons per hectare and production has been
affected mainly by the capacity of cotton companies to provide inputs and
to purchase crops within a reasonable time (paras 1.19 - 1.20), and the
price of cotton (para. 1.30), particularly in relation to other crops.
Sugarcane is grown in all regions of Zaire. Total cane production is about
500,000 tons a year. About 60% of this is from smallholders and not usable
for sugar manufacture because of the scattered location of farmers. Sugar
production from the two existing commercial plantations (para. 1.20) has
fluctuated between 42,000 tons (1970) to 63,000 tons (1974 and 1975). It
was estimated at 48,000 tons in 1978 and is believed to have remained at
that general level since. Sugar production has been affected by
insufficient supplies of materials and spare parts for the factories and
agricultural inputs for the plantations.



1.15.    Export Crops.  Oil palm, coffee, tea, rubber and cocoa constitute
Zaire's main export crops. Oil palm is produced principally in Bas-Zaire,
Bandundu, Haut-Zaire and Equateur. Production of palm oil declined from
325,000 tons in 1970 and to about 92,000 tons in 1981 due to neglect of
plantations in some areas and scarcity of foreign exchange for spare
parts. Other palm related products include palm kernel oil and palm kernel
cake with production estimated at about 50,U00 tons per year.   Coffee
remains Zaire's most important and reliable agricultural export. Data on
coffee production, marketing and exports are particularly poor since a high
proportion of exports are illegal. Coffee production has been about 60,000
- 100,000 tons a year over the last decade. The principal constraints for
expansion of coffee production are inadequate infrastructure for marketing,
storage and processing, lack of inputs such as pesticides, and unrealistic
pricing policies. Tea is restricted to the Kivu province. Its production
has declined from about 7,000 tons in 1970 to less than 4,000 tons in
1981, due mainly to management, price and technical problems. Rubber
production is concentrated in the Cuvette Centrale and is believed to have
declined from 45,000 tons in 1973 to about 20,000 tons in 1981 due to lack
of spare parts. Cocoa production has fluctuated between 3,000 and 5,000
tons over the last few years. Other exports include fiber products,
pyrethrum and cinchona bark.
1.16.    Forest Products.  The forest areas are located mainly in the
Cuvette Centrale (para 1.07). Only a small fraction of Zaire's forestry
resources is currently exploited commercially and production of timber logs
has remained stable at about 323,000 m3 over the last five years.
Production of sawn timber, however, has decreased from about 163,000 m3 in
1973 to an estimated 61,000 m3 in 1981. The principal problems
contributing to a decrease in wood production are lack of investments in
plant and equipment by forestry enterprises, shortages of spare parts, and
transportation bottlenecks. Outside of the Cuvette Centrale rain forest,
most forest exploitation is for fuelwood needs and is estimated at about 13
million m3 a year.
1.17.    Livestock and Fisheries.  The national cattle herd was estimated
at 1.2 million in 1980, up from about 1 million in 1969 - 1971; it is
concentrated in the east. The principal factors constraining increased
livestock production include inadequate services to assist in control of
diseases, deterioration of the management and facilities of many of the
large commercial ranches (para. 1.20) and inadequate and disorganized
marketing channels. Beef production has remained stable at about 20,000
tons over the last ten years. Information on production of other livestock
is poor. The total goat herd is estimated at 2.0 - 2.7 million, sheep at
0.8 million and pigs at 0.7 million head. There has been an average of 12
- 13 million poultry in Zaire over the last six years or so. The
production of milk, eggs and related livestock products is estimated at
below 20,000 tons per year. Fish production was estimated at about 100,000
tons in 1976 down from about 150,000 tons in 1971. Development of the
fisheries subsector is constrained by a lack of services to small
producers, marketing problems and shortage of foreign exchange for
equipment and spare parts in the commercial fisheries. Production of meat
from hunting is estimated at about 45,000 - 50,000 tons while annual
consumption of insects is estimated at about 33,000 tons.



-6-
Structure of Production
1.18.    Zaire's agriculture is characterized by coexistence of the modern
and the traditional sectors, each distinct from the other in structure,
production techniques and scope of operations. It is estimated that at
present the modern sector contributes about 40% to agriculture's share of
GDP and the traditional/subsistence sector, about 60%. Of the total value
of agricultural production, an estimated 48% is marketed and the remainder
consumed on the farm. About 27% of total marketed production is reportedly
exported, 23% sold on the internal consumption market and 50% sold to local
industries.
1.19.    The Modern Sector.  The modern sector includes large, corporation-
owned plantations using modern techniques and inputs and small,
individually-owned farms and ranches. The largest plantations are hield by
foreign-owned companies with full Zairian corporate identity and Zairian
participation. Many of the big plantations are part of vertically
integrated agro-industrial enterprises. The smallest modern sector
enterprises were established by colonial farmers and many of them have been
completely abandoned. The principal commodities produced by the modern
sector are palm oil, sugar, rubber, tobacco, coffee, cocoa and cattle.
1.20     Modern sector palm oil is produced by about 12 largely
foreign-owned production and processing companies. Together they accounted
for about two-thirds of national production in 1976. The total area under
plantation is estimated to have declined from about 93,000 ha in 1973 to
72,000 ha in 1976, and has probably been further reduced. Palm oil
processed from plantation fruit represents about 67% of total commercial
palm oil production. Sugar is produced by two mostly foreign-owned
companies (para 1.14) mainly under rainfed cultivation. Implementation of
a Chinese-financed project in Yawenda (Haut-Zaire) was started recently
for a capacity of about 15,000 tons of refined sugar but is encountering
serious implementation problems. Since independence, large coftee
plantations have declined in importance and some of them have been
abandoned. Production of rubber is concentrated on nine large plantations
in the Cuvette Centrale. An estimated 40% of the national cattle herd is
in the modern sector.
1.21.    The general decline of the modern sector since independence is the
result of the low priority given to agriculture in the allocation of human
and financial resources and of the Zairianization and nationalization
measures of 1973/74 which sought first to transfer ownership of all
foreign-owned agricultural, commercial and transport enterprises to Zairian
owners and then to have the Governmnent exert direct management control over
many large enterprises. The immed:Late impact of these measures, which also
affected the traditional sector severely (para 1.23), included decline in
production, a serious deterioration of plant and equipment, an exodus of
skilled managers and a serious disruption of commercial links. These mea-
surese seriously damaged private sector confidence at home and abroad. The
modern sector has, moreover, suffered from the recent economic crisis and
most plants are operating at below 50% of their capacity because of the
decline in agricultural production and the lack of foreign exchange.
1.22.    The Traditional Sector.  This comprises an estimated 3 to 4
million farming units working an average farm of about 1.5 ha and
accounting for about 60% of total agricultural production. Throughout
Zaire, traditional farming techniques rely almost exclusively on hand labor



and simple tools. Although well adapted to certain local situations, the
little-changed slash and burn methods have resulted in soil erosion and a
decline in soil fertility in areas where population density has increased.
The traditional crops grown are cassava, maize, rice, cotton, peanuts,
vegetable and tropical fruits. An estimated 60% of cattle is owned by
about 3% of traditional farmers. A more detailed description of
traditional livestock production techniques is given in para 2.13.
1.23.    Before independence, services for peasant agriculture were in
general oriented toward the production of cotton and the Government worked
mainly with private cotton companies to provide inputs, services, and
supplies to farmers and to build the necessary infrastructure for
processing and marketing the crop. The difficulties that private companies
experienced (para 1.21) resulted in a serious deterioration of rural
services and infrastructure, and a steady disintegration of the transport
system. The consequences have been declining marketable surpluses £rom
subsistence farmers, a worsening of the quality of rural life, and
declining incomes.
1.24     Land Tenure.  Land tenure is regulated by a combination of
traditional laws and modern regulations. Modern regulations are embodied in
a law promulgated in 1973 which contains provisions for the continuing
application of some traditional practices. Under the traditional system,
individuals are granted usufruct rights over, not ownership of, the land to
be cultivated on a permanent basis and they own all the crops produced on
that land. These rights are usually transferable from father to son or
close relatives. Uncultivated and unutilized land belongs or reverts
automatically to the Government, or else must be formally registered with
modern title deeds to remain private. To expropriate cultivated land, the
Government must pay compensation; it can, however also acquire most land,
including grazing land, without compensation.
Marketing and Pricing of Agricultural Products
1.25     The Government of Zaire has in the past sought to regulate and
control marketing and prices of many agricultural products, in an effort to
ensure adequate supplies of food and basic commodities to the major
consumption centers at a reasonable cost, and to guarantee prices which
will provide adequate incentives to producers. However, inadequate
applications of Government measures have often had a negative impact on
marketing and production in many cases and the objectives sought, althrough
generally reasonable, have proved difficult to achieve. The main
institutions involved in marketing and pricing activities and their
respective roles are described below.
1.26     The Ministry of National Economy has principal responsibility for
price policies and, through an Interministerial Price Commission, for
setting and regulating official prices from the producer to the retail
levels. By a Decree signed on June 12, 1981 by the Minister of National
Economy, the Government began a program of selective liberalization of
prices for domestically produced as well as imported products whereby
controls were to apply only to palm oil, wheat flour, sugar, petroleum and
pharraaceutical products, construction materials other than wood, water,
electricity and internal public transport. Requests for price increases
for these products were to be regarded as automatically approved if the
Ministry of National Economy did not react within thirty days.



- 8 -
1.27     MARD's role in marketing and pricing activities, historically
limited to its nominal membership in the Interministerial Price Commission,
has recently expanded.   A May 29, 1982 Decree signed by the Mlinister of
Agriculture has removed all controls on the prices of the following
agricultural products: cassava (tubers and flour), maize (grains and
flour), rice, soya, peanuts, beans, fruits and vegetable. The actual
implementation of the decree is primarily the responsibility of regional
governors.
1.28     Although marketing organization and problems vary for different
groups of commodities, the following constraints apply to all :
(a) shortage of storage facilities; (b) a dilapidated road infrastructure;
(c) unreliable river and rail transport systems; (d) serious shortage of
transport equipment, fuel and spare parts; and (e) limited availability of
credit. The marketing system for each commodity group is briefly reviewed
below.
1.29     Foodcrops.  The marketing structure for foodcrops consists of two
parallel systems: the first dominated by moderate to large traders and
companies, the second comprising mainly small village buyers operating
through a long chain of small intermediaries up to the urban retailers.
Problems specifically related to fooderop marketing include: (a) the total
lack of reliable information about storage and transport; (b) high product
losses; and (c) the almost complete control of the system in some areas by
a small number of merchants. Past Goverament efforts to regulate and
control foodcrop marketing through parastatal bodies and the setting of
minimum prices have now been abandoned with the closing down of the Office
National des Produits Vivriers in early 1981 and the publication of the Mây
29, 1982 price Decree (para 1.27).
1.30     Industrial and Export Commodities.  Despite severe problens
encountered in early 1982 due to non-payment for cotton lint by textile
companies, measures have been taken to resolve this problem and normal
operations have resumed. Problems due to deteriorated and limited
transport capacity, as well as the bad condition of the ginneries, are
being addressed through the second cotton project (para 1.05). One major
problem remains, that is late deliveries to the textile firms. Producer
price policy has posed problems in the past; prices were revewed only
irregularly and adjustments made bore little relationship to input price
increases or prices paid for crops in competition with cotton. In
addition, prices were fixed nationwide and did not take into account
regional or seasonal differences within Zaire. Legislation was introduced
in 1981 which declared producer prices for cotton as minimum prices which
can be adjusted upwards by cotton companies; however, regular and adequate
adjustments of minimum producer prices appear essential in order to
maintain producer incentives.
1.31     Marketing of palm oil faces the following specific problems : the
inefficiency of the mills which are deteriorated and ill-maintained because
of spare parts shortages, resulting in unreliable and costly palm oil
supply; (b) transport disruptions due to fuel shortages; (c) high transport
costs due to high losses and theft; and (d) limited credit availability.
1.32     Coffee marketing up to and including export is handled by a
parastatal agency for small producers and by larger private producers
themselves. Specific problems are: (a) delayed and often inaccurate coffee
grading; (b) cumbersome procedures for the attribution of export licences;



- 9 -
and (c) fulfillment of export requirements. In addition, coffee price
reviews have been irregular and levels have not reflected either local
production costs or international prices. This has encouraged the
development of unofficial marketing arrangements and illegal exports.
1.33     Livestock and meat marketing is constrained by problems of
inadequate and poorly maintained processing, storage and transport
infrastructure. These problems are exacerbated by the long distances
separating production areas and consumption centers. In most areas,
authorities still rely on a 1979 Decree fixing minimum cattle prices that
are sometimes enforced as maximum prices, resulting in serious
disincentives to produce or to sell.
1.34     It is widely recognized that Government controls and regulation of
the marketing system have not achieved the desired objectives and have, in
some instances, aggravated problems. The costs to the Zairian economy in
terms of financial losses, the economic costs of misallocation of
resources, and foregone production have been significant. The Agricultural
Technical Assistance project (para 1.05) includes funds for the financing
of marketing studies and provisions for setting up a marketing working
group to review marketing problems and issues.
C. Institutions for Agricultural and Rural Development
1.35     Few public resources have been effectively mobilized to develop a
sound institutional basis for promoting agricultural development and as a
result, virtually all institutions having responsibilities for development
of the agricultural sector are weak and poorly organized. Since 1980, the
Government has pursued a policy of encouraging private sector involvement
in agricultural development by redefining the respective roles of the
public and private sectors. The role of the Governnent is to focus on the
overall planning and coordination of development efforts, the provision of
infrastructure and some basic services and on pilot development efforts,
while the private sector is to become more responsible for all direct
productive activities. However, a more precise and clearly defined
assignment of responsibilities between the Government and the private
sector remains to be worked out.
1.36     The principal Goverament bodies involved in agricultural and rural
development are the following: the Ministry of Agricultural and Rural
Development, Environment, Forestry and Tourism (MARD), the Ministry of
National Economy, the Ministry of Education, the Highway Authority (OR), a
number of parastatals, Regional and local authorities, the National
Economic Development Bank (SOFIDE), the Ministry of Finance and Portfolio
and the Ministry of Planning.
1.37     MARD has undergone important changes in recent years.  In May
1982, the Ministry's responsibilities were expanded through the addition of
Environment, Forestry and Tourism, and finally, together with other
Ministries, MARD has recently been reorganized to include, between the
State Secretary and director levels of management, a new position of
Secretary General. The organization of the Ministry is therefore changing
and the chart included in this report should be seen as transitional.
1.38     MARD is responsible for agricultural policy, extension services,
veterinary and research services, and technical supervision of parastatal
institutions covering various commodities. It has broad responsibility



- 10 -
within the Government for sector planning and policy formulation and for
planning, preparation, implementation, and supervision of projects. The
Agricultural Secretariat has in the past been assigned responsibility for
preparation, implementation and follow-up of large production-oriented
projects, including projects receiving foreign support, while the Rural
Development Secretariat has concentrated on provision of rural services,
such as water supply and on cooperative development. MARD currently
employs an estimated 16,000 staff directly; significant numbers of other
staff are indirectly employed by MARD in related parastatals and on
specific projects. Services providLed are generally weak due to poor staff
training, low salary levels, and inadequate physical and financial
resources. In many areas of the country, extension work by the Government
has virtually ceased because extens;ion workers have no access to inputs or
means of transport; the Government has recently acted to equip extension
supervisors with vehicles or motorbikes, and extension agents with
bicycles. In some regions, only agricultural enterprises and development
projects operate extension services. MARD has trad-itionally been unable to
carry out its responsibilities for planning, preparation, implementation
and supervision of projects due to insufficient funds and lack of trained
personnel. Furthermore, its management structure is weak and its budgetary
procedures and financial controls inadequate.  The Government, with the
assistance of external donors, is taking steps to address these problems
through the Agricultural Action Plan (par. 1.48).
1.39     The Ministry of National Economy is responsible for price policies
and, through an Interministerial Price Commission, is responsible for
setting and regulating official prices from the producer to the retail
levels (para 1.26). The Ministry of Finance and Portfolio handles most
budget, financial control issues and supervises companies in which the
Government holds shares while the Ministry of Planning handles planning,
preparation and administration of 1he investment budget. The Central Bank
handles foreign exchange allocations with the Ministry of Finance. The
Ministry of Education handles agricultural education and the Ministry of
Transport and its operational agency, OR, development and maintenance of a
large part of the national road network.
1.40     Regional and local authorities have important responsibilities for
coordination of development activities, allocation of land and the
disposition of abandoned farms and plantations. Zaire is divided into
eight regions (excluding Kinshasa), each of which is divided into
sub-regions. The sub-regions are :Eurther divided into zones, the smallest
administrative unit. The Ministry of Territorial Administration is
responsible for local administration and works through its appointed
officers: Regional, Sub-regional and Zone Commissioners. These officials
coordinate the work of the staff of the technical ministries assigned to
their jurisdiction.
1.41     Parastatal Agencies:  In 1971, the Government began to establish
regulatory parastatals ("offices") for each major agricultural product.
The principal responsibility of these bodies was to regulate trade and
exports for their respective commodity. Some offices financed marketing
activities, while others became directly involved in production activities
following the "nationalizatio-n" of 1974. In May 1978, the Goverament
initiated a complete reorganization of these commodity agencies due to
acute management and financial problems; some offices were disolved
completely (para 1.30), while others were replaced with new parastatal
institutions. Three parastatals are operating at present: Caisse de



- il -
Stabilization Cotonnière (CsCo - cotton), Office National pour le
Développement de l'Elevage (ONDE - Livestock), and Office Zairois du Café
(OZACAF - coffee).
1.42     Agricultural credit  is not well developed in Zaire and the lack
of credit available for productive enterprises is an important obstacle to
development of the sector. Agricultural credit is provided by six
commercial banks and by SOFIDE (Société Financière de Développement), a
development finance company established in 1970. These institutions
provide loans to medium- and large-scale enterprises, but a major
constraint is lack of foreign exchange resources for lending. SOFIDE
established an agricultural department in 1976 and its agricultural lending
increased from about 3.2% in 1975 to about 38% in 1980, representing an
evolution in commitments from Z 0.2 million in 1975 to Z 36.0 million in
1980. Official credit for smallholder agriculture is virtually
non-existent in Zaire- the only source of such credit is within the context
of a few area-specific development programs. Although the demand for
credit by smallholders is difficult to assess, there is a need for such
credit, at least in the long term. The Government has announced plans to
establish an agricultural bank; feasibility studies have been completed.
The World Bank and other donor agencies have resisted pressure from the
Government to participate in the creation of this bank which they consider
ill prepared. Pilot operations recommended by those studies have started
in some regions.
1.43     To stimulate private sector participation in national economic
development, the Government established a system of Economic Recovery Funds
(ERF) in 1978 and these have become an important source of financing for
agricultural development. Under this system, private companies enter into
an agreement to manage development activities in rural areas, utilizing
Government funds raised by surcharges added to the retail price of
agricultural or agriculture-related products; the surcharge may not exceed
10% of the retail price. The ERF system is under the supervision of the
Ministry of National Economy, Commerce and Industry, and the technical work
of evaluating project proposals and monitoring project execution and
utilization of funds is carried out by a General Secretariat. Total funds
collected (1978-81) by the companies which have signed development
agreements are estimated at about Z200 million (US$36 million), and
expenditure on these projects is estimated at Z135 million (US$24 million).
Agricultural Research
1.44     The National Institute for Agronomic Research and Studies (INERA),
is responsible for agricultural research. It inherited a network of
research stations dispersed over the country. At present INERA is an
autonomous institute within MARD. In total, INERA now manages 20 stations,
six main stations in charge of national programs with assistance from
international research organizations such as CIMMYT and IITA (Yangambi,
Central station; Gandajika, Kipopo-cotton, Mvuazi-manioc (PRONAM),
Mulumgu-grain, legumes; and Nioka, livestock) and 14 secondary stations.
Other former stations are not operational.
1.45     Researchers are stationed only at the six main stations.  In
general the stations are heavily overstaffed with non-research personnel.
The organization is unwieldy and suffers from a lack of funds, irregular
disbursement of available funds, an inadequate salary system, difficult
internal communications, ineffective physical infrastructure and weak



- 12 -
management. The limited results obtained so far have generally not been
transferred to small farmers, due :mainly to weak extension services and
input delivery systems and poor linkage between research and field
activities.
1.46     The weakness of research findings is a serious constraint for
implementation of on-going agricultural projects and will be a major
obstacle in design and execution of future development projects. In
recognition of this situation and the impact which agricultural research
might have on agricultural production, the Government of Zaire submitted a
preliminary proposal for a research project to external financing agencies
at the June 1982 Consultative Group Meeting on Agriculture. Most of the
agencies at the meeting expressed interest in such a project. A project
preparation effort is now underway which may lead to a research
rehabilitation project.
Agricultural Education
1.47     Agricultural education is the responsibility of the Department of
Education. A variety of agricultural training programs are available which
prepare students for extension and research work. Graduates are ranked at
three levels of expertise, depending on the length and type of program: ex-
tension workers are usually A3, agronomists A2, and senior agronomist AI.
The Yangambi faculty near Kisangani is the principal source of qualified
agronomists. Although Zaire has developed a substantial network of
agricultural education institutions, most programs are not well adapted to
the needs of the agricultural sector. Graduates recruited for the
extension services generally require considerable additional practical
training in order to perform adequately. Budgetary shortages have
afflicted the teaching institutions and their physical plants are generally
obsolete, inadequate, and deteriorating. The need for revitalization of
training institutions is widely recognized.
D. Government Strategy for Agricultural Development
1.48     The main sector issues can be summarized as follows (para 1.08):
inadequate or unclear Government policies, weakness and prolonged neglect
of key agricultural institutions, lack of planning and project
implementation capacity, weakness of basic services and cumbersome and
ineffective budgetary and financial management systems. In the past
decade, the Zairian Government, with substantial assistance and
encouragement from external agencies, has formulated a series of programs
for agricultural recovery on the assumption that revitalization of the
agricultural sector was probably the highest priority for Zaire's long-term
development and required a greatly increased allocation of resources. To
date, however, most plans for agriculture have remained largely at the
conceptual stage and have not been carried out. The sector has continued,
in practice, to receive a low priority particularly in the allocation of
financial resources. Its share of Goverament budgets has remained at the 2
- 3% level throughout the 1970s but increased to about 9% in 1982. The
Zairian Goverament is currently engaged in a new effort to define a
coherent strategy to develop the agricultural sector. The World Bank and
several other agencies have encouraged this effort which is referred to as
the Agricultural Action Plan.



- 13 -
The Agricultural Action Plan
1.49     The Agricultural Action Plan is designed to stimulate short-term
recovery: first, by removing critical bottlenecks, notably inconsistent or
inappropriate policies and inadequate allocation of Limited foreign
exchange; second, by making on-going projects and programs work better; and
third, by specific efforts to encourage small farmers and private companies
to produce and market foodcrops, cotton and sugar for local industries,
palm oil, coffee and forestry products for export. It includes measures to
strengthen the institutional support for agricultural policies and
investments, a more systematic review of critical issues affecting
agriculture and of on-going projects to improve their implementation,
preparation of a three-year investment plan for agriculture within the
context of the Mobutu Plan, and an analysis of import needs of agricultural
enterprises in the private sector and a definition of priorities among
them.
1.50     The basic Government strategy for agricultural development has
been summarized in the Agricultural Recovery Plan, a report prepared in
late 1981 to early 1982 by MARD, reviewed by external financing partners
and approved by the Council of Ministers. The chief objectives of the
strategy are: (a) to make Zaire self-sufficient in foodcrops, by
increasing production; (b) to increase the production of crops used as raw
materials by the local industries; and       (c) to increase export crop
production. For the short- and medium-term the priorities will be foodcrop
development through recovery of smallholder production and rehabilitation
and maintenance of existing production capacity. Thus, short to medium
term measures focus on: (a) establishing clear procedures for cabinet level
coordination of agricultural policy; (b) reinforcing the capacity of MARD
to plan, prepare and implement projects more effectively; and (c)
reinforcing its capacity to address key policy problems more
systematically.
1.51     The Government has taken or is taking action, partly with the
assistance of external donors including the Belgian, French, Canadian and
U.S. bilateral assistance programs and IDA, to reorganize MARD and to
implement the measures summnarized above (para 1.49). Significant initia-
tives have been taken in the following areas: (a) interdepartmental
coordination, (b) reorganization of MARD, (c) planning through provision of
short- and long-term technical assistance and training of Ministry staff,
(d) project preparation, (e) financial and Budget management, (f) project
supervision, (g) procurement and monitoring and evaluation, and (i) policy
review through policy working groups. Although it still is too early to
assess the impact of recent measures on agricultural production, the Plan
and the preparatory efforts which it reflects represent realistic and
significant steps to address the most important institutional and policy
issues which have impeded production in the past.
E. Bank Group Support for Agriculture.
1.52     Bank Group support for the development of Zairian agriculture has
included sector work, project financing, coordination of donors' activities
and a sustained dialogue with the Government to define and address more
coherently key policy issues such as pricing, marketing, incentives for
private sector development, foreign exchange allocation, credit and
research and training.



- 14 -
1.53     A sector survey for agriculture was undertaken in ]971-72.  An
agricultural sector memorandum was circulated to the Consultative Group in
May 1981, designed to facilitate a review of the Bank's agricultural
support to Zaire. A total of aine projects for agricultural development,
excluding two lines of credit to SOFIDE (paras 1.03 - 1.05), consistent
with Government priorities for agriculture and rural development and
addressing both the rehabilitation and expansion needs of privately owned,
modern agricultural enterprises and the development of basic services for
the smallholder farmers, have been supported to date. Finally, the Bank
Group has played an important role in helping the Government coordinate the
activities of external financing agencies in the sector by taking a
leadership role in setting up cofinancing arrangements in seven of the nine
projects that it is financing, and by organizing and chairing, under the
aegis of the CG, the 1977 Working Group on agriculture and the 1982
CG Special Meeting on agriculture.
1.54     Bank Group support for agricultural development in Zaire over the
next few years will continue to have two main goals: first to help improve
the policy and institutional framework so as to create an environment
conducive to increased investments, better management and increased
outputs; and second to help increase the production of foodcrops as well as
industrial and export crops through the financing of well-prepared,
production oriented projects. Intensive supervision of on-going
agricultural projects will continue to be a key element of the Bank Group
support to the sector.
II - PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Physical Characteristics
2.01     Location and Topography.  The Project area would be most of the
Ituri subregion of the Haut-Zaire region in north-east Zaire (see map).
The Ituri subregion is remote and landlocked and is very difficult to reach
by road or by plane. No regular airline service is organized to or from
the area and the roads leading to it are in a very bad state, requiring at
least one week travelling time to the nearest major urban centers of
Kisangani or Goma during the rainy season and several days during the dry
season. The area has important gold mining activities (para 2.28) and many
people are abandoning farming to search for gold. The Project area is
bordered by Sudan in the north, Uganda in the east and south-east. Kivu
region lies to the south and Haute-Uélé, another Haut-Zaire subregion, to
the west. Although the sub-region comprises the five administrative zones
of Aru, Djugu, Irumu, Mahagi and Mambasa, the Project area would be limited
to the first four with a total areaL of about 29,000 km2. The Project area
consists of a mixture of hills, plateaux and mountains,with altitudes
varying from just under 1,000 m to peaks of 2,000 meters. There are two
rainy seasons: mid-March to mid-May and August to November.
2.02     Soils.  Most of the soils of the Project area developed
from non-differentiated bed rocks such as granites, schistes and basalts
in restricted areas. The dominant soil types are kaolisols and ferrasols,
with the latter found mostly in the south and the north. The inherent
fertility of these soils depends to a large extent on the clay content.
The southern ferrasols have a high sand and silt content and are considered
of low fertility. The kaolisols of the central section have a good clay
content and are of medium fertility. The northern section has both
ferrasols of a higher clay content than in the south and high fertility
black soils on alluvial deposits that are hard to work.



- 15 -
2.03     Vegetation and Land Use.  The four zones to be covered by the
Project (para 2.01) have been divided into three sectors and are covered
mainly with savannah with about 6,000 km2 representing pastures. The
northern sector has 4,000 km2 of pastures, 2,500 km2 of which are currently
utilized. The central sector has potential for more than 5,000 km2 of
pastures but only about 1,500 km2 are exploited. The southern sector has
about 2,300 km2 of pastures. Stocking rates are estimated to vary between
2 and 4 ha/cattle unit. Current grazing practices could permit a stocking
rate of about 2 ha/cattle unit over the whole project area or a total of
317 000 cattle units, compared to about 243 000 currently available. If
unused pastures of the northern and central sectors are exploited, an
additional 100,000 to 250,000 cattle units could be reared. These numbers
would be actually lower if small livestock is considered (about 62,000
cattle units). However, dangers of overgrazing exist in the central secter
due to high population density that leads to the use of more and more land
for cropping. The main vegetation cover of most of the pastures in the
northern and southern sectors is Hyparrhenia (Jaragua grass). Other
grasses in these two sectors include Brachiaria (signal grass) of a good
feeding quality, Sporobolus (dropseed grass) and Digitaria (finger grass)
of inferior quality. In the central sector, the main grass is Setaria
(foxtail millet), a good quality grass often accompanied by Imperata (Cogon
grass) and Cymbopogan (false citronella).  In traditional areas, grazing is
held communally while individuals have cultivation right according to
customary law (para 1.25). Use of communal grazing land varies from a
free for all to relatively closely controlled conditions.
B. Socio-Economic Aspects
2.04     The Project area has a population estimated at 1.6 million people
with a predominantly rural life pattern. Population density varies from
31/km2 in the Irumu zone to about 85/km2 in Mahagi. Total active
population is estimated at about 663,000. About 18,000 families own cattle
out of a total of about 300,000 farming families.  Seven principal tribes
live in the sub-region with different ethnic and geographic origins and
obtain most of their income from crops. Only three of the major four
tribes own appreciable numbers of livestock. The four major tribal groups
consist of: (a) the Wallendu (about 28% of the population) living in Irumu
and Djugu. They derive most of their income from cropping but also raise
some cattle and small livestock; (b) the Bahema, representing about 25% of
the population and living mainly in Irumu, Djuju and Mahagi zones. They
are mainly pastoralists but also produce foodcrops except for some groups
in the Southern Irumu who do not practice cropping; (c) the Lugware (about
22% of the population) living in Aru mainly from cattle raising. They also
produce and sell foodcrops; and (d) the Alur (about 26% of the population),
a group of crop and livestock producers living in Mahagi.
2.05     Farmers' incomes depend to a great extent on whether they are
primarily food croppers who traditionally own cattle, cattle breeders who
cultivate farms just to satisfy their basic foodcrop requirements, or
cultivators who have no, or very little, livestock activities. It is
estimated for instance that the Bahemas (essentially pastoralists) derive
all their incomes from cattle related revenues while the Alur and Lugware
derive about 40% of their incomes from livestock and 60% from foodcrops.
In general, those who derive the largest proportion of their income from
livestock have tended to have a higher overall income level. A
socio-economic study based on a very limited sample and conducted by BPI
(para 4.03) in 1980 indicated that gross income in rural areas varied from



- 16 -
about US$600 per family for crop farmers to US$4,000 for a famnily owning
about 262 cattle head. Cash revenues were estimated to vary from about 20%
of gross revenues for the small income families to 30% for higher income
families.
C. Production Systems
2.06      Food Crops.  Most of the pre-independence large farms are now
owned by Zairians, parastatals and missions. They presently produce very
little because many of them have been gradually abandoned. Consequently,
most of the production is now being done by the traditional sector. The
major crops grown vary according to the zone and their production is
estimated as to be 1,600,000 tons per year for manioc, 160,000 for beans,
130,000 for sweet potatoes, 90,000 for maize, 27,000 for banana, 20,000 for
groundnuts and 8,000 for paddy.
2.07.    The average farm has an area of 2.5 ha.  In general, there are two
plantings per year of two or even three crops in the same field. Each crop
is harvested separately. There are well established crop rotations and the
land is usually cultivated for three years and then left for three to four
years to fallow. Farmers are generally skilled. The production methods
are generally primitive and rely on hoes and machetes as tools. No
fertilizer or pesticides are available and labor is practically the only
input. The main factors limiting increased production are a severe
shortage of tools in local markets and the poor quality of planting
material. Despite the lack of reliable data, yields are believed not to
have significantly decreased in the last few years. In the central sector
(Mahagi and Djugu), demographic pressure on land is such that shorter
fallow periods have had to be adopted. This is likely to have accelerated
soil deterioration. Studies under the Project (para 4.14) would
investigate ways to address this problem.
2.08      Cash Crops.  Coffee is by% far the most important cash crop in
Ituri. An estimated 9,000 smallholder coffee growers and a few estate
plantations produce about 3,000 tons of both arabica and robusta coffee per
year. Smallholders' plantations cover an area of about 0.1 to 0.5 ha
each. The apparent tree density is about 1,000 to 1,200 trees per ha, but
because many of them have never been replaced, the real density may be of
the order of 600 to 800 trees per ha. Lack of pruning, dense shading and
the absence of inputs such as pesticides and fertilizers all contribute to
low average yields of about 200 kg of green coffee per ha.
2.09      Since 1976, the British American Tobacco Company (BAT) has been
promoting tobacco production in the Project area. About 2,400 farmers
participated in the BAT program in 1981 and produced an estimated 226 tons
of flue cured and 120 tons of air cured tobacco. BAT has its own extension
service and provides the necessary inputs such as pesticides, fertilizers,
pipes at cost and seeds for free. Each extension agent is responsible for
about 30 farmers in the flue-cured tobacco producing area and about 150 in
the air-cured area. To qualify fcr BAT assistance, farmers, especially
those growing flue-cured tobacco, are required to follow strict tobacco
farming and processing practices. The average farmer works on an area of
about 0.3 ha. All tobacco produced under BAT supervision is purchased at a
price that is determined every year by BAT. The tobacco program appears
successful and has contributed to an increase in food production because
the crops planted after tobacco benefit from the after effects of
fertilizers. Net incremental cash farmers' revenues resulting from tobacco



- 17 -
alone were estimated at about 1000-1500z (US$180 - 280) per grower in
tobacco produced is processed by BAT at its Kinshasa plant and sold in the
local market. The major problem facing BAT in its efforts to maintain or
increase the existing production is the lack of foreign exchange to
purchase fertilizers, pesticides and sheet iron for the flue-cured tobacco.
2.10     Cotton production is promoted by SOTEXCO (Sociéte Textile et
Cotonnière), a textile company that provides inputs and extension services
to farmers, maintains roads and buys seed cotton at fixed prices. SOTEXCO
operates one ginnery in Ituri and will receive assistance under the second
cotton project (para 1.04).
Livestock
2.11     The raising of livestock is an important activity in Ituri on
account of its high social value and its economic role. About a third of
the national cattle herd is raised in Ituri.
a) Cattle
2.12     Herd size and dynamics:  The cattle herd is believed to have
increased from 259,000 in 1965 to 300,000 in 1975, declined to 275,000 in
1978 and then risen to about 309,000 in 1981. Reasons for these variations
are not well known, although it seems probable that part of the increase
can be attributed to activities of the on-going Ituri project (Chapter
III).
2.13     Cattle birth rate is about 19%, commercial offtake about 8.5% and
mortality about 9%; calf mortality is estimated at 20%. The calving rate
is 35%, the age of cows at first calving about 60 months, and the calving
interval about 20 months. These data suggest that about half of the
potential growth rate of the Ituri herd (births) is lost through
mortalities; given the relatively low rate of births, this has resulted in
a low growth rate in the neighborhood of 2%. Further, the low calving rate
itself is caused by the advanced age of the female at first calving of
about five years, poor grazing management, presence of old cows (para
2.14), mineral and salt deficiencies and high parasite and disease
incidence.
2.14     Production Systems.  Livestock activities are mostly traditional
and occupy less than 10% of the farming families (para 2.04). The majority
of livestock producers are also farmers. Cattle production is extensive
with very little input use. Herd composition is about 8% bulls, 46% cows,
17% heifers, 13% steers and 16% calves. These numbers reveal an abnormally
high proportion of cows, a consequence of a relatively high calf mortality
and the reluctance of producers to rid themselves of aging, thus unproduc-
tivie cows. They also indicate a low percentage of calves resulting from a
low calving rate (para 2.13).
2.15     It is estimated that 34% of the cattle herd is raised in the
northern sector, 26% in the center and 40% in the south. The average herd
per producer is 14, 23 and 38 head respectively for the three sectors.
Herd sizes range from one to more than 250 head per owner; about 60% of the
total herd is in the hands of small producers (1 to 60 head) and only just
under 10% is owned by those with 250 head or more. The combination of a
low cattle density of Il head/km2 and a large number of relatively small
herds have made it difficult to reach all producers under the on-going
Ituri project (para 3.01).



- 18 -
2.16      Animal Health.  Although the last reliable data on c:? tt -Ie diseases
in Ituri date from the colonial days, the following diseases have been
repeatedly observed and constitute a major constraint to livestock
production in Ituri.
2.17     Tickborne diseases.  Tickls are responsible for the maintenance and
propagation of three major diseases of cattle in Ituri. East Coast fever
(ECF - theileriosis), caused by the protozoan parasite Theileria parva and
transmitted by a brown ear tick and a red-legged tick is the most serious
and under some circumstances can cause high mortalities particularly in
calves. It is suspected that difjferent strains exist and that adult cattle
moved to a new area are susceptib:Le to new strains. While mortality from
ECF has traditionally been exaggerated in published statistics on Ituri
livestock, more reliable data froma other ECF enzootic areas in East and
Central Africa indicate that average calf mortality due to ECF would vary
from 3 to 10%. Piroplasmosis and Anaplasmosis are both transmitted by the
tropical bont tick 'Boophilus microplus".
2.18      Apart from their importance as disease vectors, and the high
losses that may result, other major effects, less dramatic but probably
with greater economic impact,produced by ticks are: (a) the loss of blood
amounting to 1 - 3 ml for every tick completing its life cycle on cattle,
(b) irritation causing licking and scratching (called "tick worry") which
interferes with grazing and drastically reduces the productivity of
surviving animals; (c) damage to hides; and (d) predisposition of the host
cattle to bacterial and fungal infection. Although the magnitude of these
direct effects of tick infestations are not well documented in Ituri,
studies carried out elsewhere on ticks suggest that an average daily
infestation of 50 engorging "Boophilus" (i.e. the tick causing
piroplasmosis and anaplasmosis) can reduce weight gains by up to .65 kg per
tick or about 3,500 kg per tick life cycle in a herd of 100 cattle. This
suggests that it is imperative to control the ravages of ticks and
tickborne diseases if cattle production in Ituri is to be increased.
2.19      Other diseases.  Other diseases encountered in the project area
include (a) Helminthiasis (liver flukes), gastro intestinal nematodes, lung
worms and cycticercosis; (b) brucellosis, which causes many abortions; (c)
Anthrax and blackleg and (d) trypanosomiasis which occurs in forested and
riverine areas on the outskirts oif the project area where tse-tse flies are
found. Few cattle are reared in the tse-tse infested areas. A short
epidemic of lumpy skin disease occurred in the Southern sector in 1981 and
is believed to have originated from Uganda.
b) Other Livestock
2.20     Most of the farmers in Ituri also have some goats, pigs, and a few
sheep and raise poultry.  Small llvestock is important for the family's
meat supply and represent a valuable source of cash. There are an
estimated 300,000 goats, 80,000 sheep and about 50,000 pigs. The majority
of these animals belong to small farmers who let them roam in the
countryside. Common health problems with goats and sheep include worms,
coccidiosis, salmonella, piroplasmosis, caprine pleuropneumia and foot
rot. Information on the incidence of these diseases as well as mortality
rates and off take is lacking. The small size of individual herds and the
apparent lack of interest of farmers in organizing breeding of small
livestock renders any project intervention very difficult. The main fatal
diseases of young pigs are worms and pneumonia.



- 19 -
Fisheries
2.21     The Project area is bordered to the south east by Lake 1lobutu
which has a total surface area of 5,270 km2, 2,420 km2 (46%) of which are
considered Zairian waters. Data on fishing activities are not very
reliable but it is estimated that fishing is done by about 5,000 tradition-
al fishermen using between 300 to 500 dug-out canoes; 6,000 artisanal
fishermen using about 1,500 boats, 10% of which are motorized; and 10
semi-industrial fishing companies owning a total of about 64 boats, 80% of
which are not operational. Total production from the lake was about 6,500
tons in 1980, down from about 8,000 tons in 1977. Artisanal fishermen
contribute about 75% of the catches, traditional fishermen about 15% and
semi-industrial concerns 10%. Fish is dried and salted by most
semi-industrial fishing companies and frozen by half of them. Some drying,
smoking and salting is also done by traditional and artisanal fishermen.
Fishing companies ship fish by truck to towns such as Kisangani and Isiro
and by plane to Kinshasa. Some small traders also buy and sell fish in
Ituri and occasionally ship it by plane to Kinshasa. Three fishermen's
cooperative societies have been created and affiliated with ACOOPELI or
from the has supplied them with limited amounts of fishing gear procured
with funds from the Ituri livestock project. The major problem for lake
fisheries remains the limited supply of adequate fishing gear, fuel and
spare parts. Based on pre-independence statistics fish resources are
believed to be exploitable at a sustainable rate of 12,000 tons/year or
about twice the current production level. Under the proposed Project (para
4.14), limited funds would be made available for the procurement of fishing
gear to be sold for cash by ACOOPELI to fisheries cooperatives. The French
Ministry of Cooperation is also planning to provide fishing gear to
fishermen and to do a more systematic study of fishing activities.
D. Marketing
2.22     Ituri has been a traditional food supplier to the lowlands of
Haut-Zaire. The main exports are beans, cassava, fish, cattle, meat, and
maize. Trade seems to have grown despite the bad conditions of the
roads. There is also a continuous local demand for foodcrops from
fishermen along lake Mobutu and from the increasing number of farmers who
have abandoned crop production to dig gold. Marketing faces major
constraints such as lack of infrastructure, socio-economic factors,
inadequate pricing and foreign exchange policies.
2.23     Marketing infrastructure.  Basic marketing infrastructure includes
rural and urban marketing centers, rural slaughterhouses, an abattoir, a
north-south stock route, roads and the Bunia airstrip. Poorly maintained
roads are a serious constraint to trade from the project area to nearby
consumption centers and are the main cause of depressed demand. Roads to
the major regional centers of Isiro and Watsa in the north, Kisangani and
Goma in the south are in a very bad state and result in high transport
costs and high cattle weight losses. Other infrastructural constraints
include the deteriorated state of the Bunia abattoir, the absence of meat
storage facilities and the run down bunia airstrip. The Bunia airstrip has
special relevance because of the importance of the Kinshasa meat market
which can be supplied only by plane. The Government has already awarded a
contract to a civil engineering firm to rehabilitate the airstrip and funds
have been earmarked for that purpose.   Rehabilitation of the Bunia
airstrip would allow the landing of turboprop and jet airplanes which are
less costly to operate than piston engine airplanes, the only craft that



- 20 -
now go to Bunia. Rehabilitation cf the Bunia abattoir has now been
undertaken by CIDA (para 5.21) and should become operational in late 1983.
2.24     Socio-economic factors.  In addition to infrastructure problems,
marketing is haapered, especially for livestock, by traditional attitudes
in the central and northern sectors of the project area where producers
seem reluctant to sell their cattle unless faced by a serious financial
problem. As a result, cattle sales in those areas have been constrained
and marketing development will require long, slow efforts to change
attitudes. ACOOPELI is expected to continue to play a major role in this
respect (paras 3.12 and 5.21). Beef consumption, and consequently, sales,
is also limited by low levels of income.
2.25     Prices.  Price administration in the Ituri is similar to the
countrywide system (para 1.26). However, whereas prices of foodcrops have
been remarkably free from Government interference there are indications
that the administration of cattle and beef prices in the sub-region are a
serious constraint to commercialisation. Some local administrative
authorities have consistently set cattle and meat prices at an
unrealistically low level. This has discouraged producers from selling
their cattle. On the other hand, the level of the official exchange rate
of the Zaire currency has tended to make imports of meat more attractive
for the Kinshasa market than Ituri meat and to further discourage shipment
of meat from the Project area.  However, given appropriate foreign exchange
rate policies, Ituri meat can become competitive with meat imports (Table
7). The impact of the Government's policy on prices in the Project area
will be monitored during the Project.
2.26     Other marketing constraints include lack of an appropriate
organization of marketing channels which lead to erratic supply of cattle
to the markets and to traders coming from outside the region; the
remoteness of the Ituri sub-region which results in disruption in the
supply of fuel and other basic necessities; and lack of credit to traders.
Supply and Demand
2.27     Ituri meat is consumed mainly in the local urban centers of
Haut-Zaire, by the rural population and in Kinshasa. It is estimated that
per capita meat consumption is about 1.4 kg per year in Ituri and varies
from 3.7 in urban centers to 0.2 in rural areas. With an estimated 8.5%
offtake, total available meat per year is estimated at about 25,50U head or
about 3,100 tons of carcass. In 1980 the urban population of about 800,000
inhabitants in the subregion and outlying areas of Haut-Zaire was believed
to have consumed about 2,900 tons of beef carcasses a year (about 23,000
cattle head) while the rural Ituri population of about 1,300,000 was
believed to have consumed about 200 tons of beef (about 1,700 cattle
head). This would imply that about 100 tons (about 800 head) were shipped
to Kinshasa in 1980. Most recent data indicate that between September 1981
and February 1982, about 139 tons (about 1,000 cattle head) were shipped to
Kinshasa or about 23 tons (170 head) per month. These figures are very
tentative and should be viewed with caution. They do, however, indicate an
order of magnitude and suggest that there is a significant unmet demand for
Ituri meat within the sub-region, in the neighboring areas and even in
Kinshasa. The main constraint to sale of meat to Kinshasa seems to be the
poor state of the Bunia airstrip and the Bunia Abattoir (para 2.23).



- 21 -
E. Ongoing Activities in the LXject area
2.28     The major develcpmené project ir, lrcri is the Ituri Livestock
Project which is reviewed in the next chapter. Other activities are
described in paras 2.09 - 2.10. The "Office des Mines d'Or de Kilo-Moto",
a government-owned gold mining company, owns and operates gold mines in
Ituri. To help feed its workers, it operates five ranches covering 39,290
hectares. All these ranches are in a run-down condition due to inadequate
management and lack of funds. Mortality of calves and other stock is
high. The cattle herd in these ranches is estimated at about 2,000 head,
down from about 4 000 in 1975. Financing for improvement of three of these
ranches was included under the ongoing Ituri livestock project, but has not
been implemented (Chapter III).
F. Rural Institutions
2.29     The sub-region is administered by the Sub-regional Commissioner
stationed in Bunia. He directly supervises five zone commissioners who
reside in the zone headquarters of Aru, Mahagi, Djugu, Irumu and Mambasa.
A number of chiefs of collectivities are appointed in each zone and report
to the zone commissioner. The sub-regional commissioner and the zone
commissioners coordinate the work of the staff of the technical ministries
who are appointed by most departments at the subregion and zone levels.
Livestock activities are under the responsibility of the Ituri Project Unit
and are reviewed in Chapter III.
2.30     Field staff of the agricultural extension services include ten A2
agronomists, 70 A3 extension officers and 18 agents. The chief of the
sub-regional services is an agronomist located in Bunia. Each zone is
under the responsibility of an agronomist who supervises extension officers
and agents working at the collectivity and village levels. Major
constraints to extension work staff include lack of transport means,
irregular salary payments, low salary levels and inadequate training.
2.31.    Agricultural Training.  There are about eight technical training
schools in the Haut Zaire region, three of which are in the Project area at
Loda, Bondo and Adrande. These are three-year program schools meant to
lead to employment of students at graduation at A2 or A3 levels. Like most
schools elsewhere in Zaire, they present the following weaknesses: (a)
physical infrastructure is not adequately maintained and no appropriate
equipment is available; (b) teachers receive very low salaries, are paid
infrequently, and consequently have to resort to part-time jobs or other
activities; (c) despite a low rate of teachers to pupils, there is a
shortage of qualified teachers; and (d) very little supervision and control
is provided from the central Ministry in Kinshasa, resulting in weak
educational and manpower planning and to misuse of resources.
2.32     Cooperatives have rapidly developed with the assistance of the
Ituri Livestock Project and are described in Chapter III.
III - THE ITURI LIVESTOCK PROJECT
A. Project Background and Objectives
3.01     The Ituri Livestock Project (Credit 697-ZR) was identified by an
IDA mission in 1974 and prepared by the Department of Agriculture with the
help of consultants and the Bank Resident Mission in Zaire (R1MZ). The
project was appraised in September/October 1975.



- 22 -
3.02     The principal objective of the project at appraisal was to develop
an overall livestock, mainly cattle, improvement program, through (a) the
rehabilitation of veterinary and animal production services; (b) the
improvement of marketing services, a stock route and rural slaughter
facilities; (c) the training of staff and farmers; (d) the rehabilitation
and development of three existing ranches; (e) the improvement of existing
abattoirs at Bunia and Kisangani; and (f) the provision of technical
assistance. The Ministry of Agriculture was to be responsible for
coordinating all project activities, while responsibility for management
and execution of the project was to be divided between the Ituri Project
Unit (BPI, which was established for the purpose) for veterinary, animal
production, marketing and rural slaughter services, and ONDE, the national
livestock development authority, for the ranches and the abattoirs. The
Ituri Credit was approved in June 1977, signed in August and became
effective in December of the same year.  The project was completed on
December 31, 1982.
B. Prelimiinary Results
3.03     Although project activities lhave been beset by a number of serious
problems, most of them have been overcome and the results obtained thus far
have been encouraging in many respects (paras 3.12-3.15). Given the long
term nature of the project and the lack of reliable data on animal health
and herd dynamics, the impact of project activities cannot be easily
quantified.
Project Implementation
3.04     Start-up of project implementation was delayed by difficulties in
getting the technical assistance team well established after their arrival
in the project area, Subsequently, the execution of the traditional
livestock component was hampered by late delivery of veterinary products
and further disrupted by the unanticipated departures of the project
manager and the animal health manager in the second project year.
Implementation of other components has faced many problems: (a) the
rehabilitation of the Ngabu training center, a key element for project
execution, was delayed due to lack of a clear definition of the
relationship between the Zairian Government, one co-financier and BPI; (b)
the Bunia and Kisangani abattoirs were not rehabilitated due in part to
policy disagreements between another co-financier and the Zairian
Government; (c) ONDE has never taken possession of the ranches and
consequently has not developed them because of the lack of a clearly
defined and equitable asset transfer mechanism between ONDE and the current
owner of the ranches; and (d) BPI has been consistently faced with
cash-flow problems because of the Government's inability to provide
counterpart funds on a timely basis.  As seen in para  3.05 - 3.14 below,
an effective project management team and a number of innovations have
contributed to a satisfactory performance despite these problems.
Implementation of individual components is summarized below.
3.05     Veterinary activities.  Construction and rehabilitation of dips,
dispensaries, houses, and stores have been affected by the delay in start
of project implementation difficulties (para 3.04) resulting from the
remoteness of the project area and the lack of reliable local construction
firms. It is expected, however, that about 80% of the dips, 43% of the
dispensaries and 28% of the rural slaughter houses planned for at appraisal
will be operational when the project is completed. Despite the problems
described above (para 3.04), about 20% of the cattle population are dipped



- 23 -
weekly as a result of the project, 87% are treated with anthelmintics twice
a year, 73% are vaccinated against blackleg and 33% against brucellosis.
Further, mineral licks are manufactured by BPI and are sold to producers as
mineral supplements for cattle.
3.06     Animal production.  Although pasture improvement programs have met
with some resistance on the part of producers who failed to grasp the
benefits that were to be derived from them, a total of 98 seed gardens have
been created, 64 of which are starting to function properly. BPI has set
boundary stones for 64 communal pastures covering a total area of 27,000
ha. These pastures are to be exploited by producers' cooperative societies
(PRODELS, para 3.12) following technical guidelines developed by BPI.
Concurrently, progressive producers, religious missions and the mining
company (para 2.28) have received assistance and guidance from BPI in the
management of their herds. About 36,000 cattle (about 55% of the males)
have been castrated since the project started and limited genetic
improvement has been attempted through the import of brown swiss bulls and
the purchase of other selected breeds from the INERA station at NIOKA
(about 14 steers and 43 heifers). These cattle are stationed in the three
ACOOPELI stations (para 5.16) and producers are encouraged to visit them.
Some producers have already purchased bulls while others have crossed their
heifers with the selected breeds at the stations.
3.07     Marketing services.  A total of 18 rural markets, 13 of them in
the southern sector because of the proximity of Bunia, are now active
compared to the nine planned at appraisal. Only Il of the planned 40 rural
slaughter houses have been completed. A disappointment concerning
marketing activities has been the long delay in the rehabilitation of the
Bunia abattoir (para 3.04).
3.08     Training activities were initially delayed due to problems of
coordination between some co-financiers and the Zairian Government (para
3.04).  However, this difficulty was successfully circumvented by project
management through the development of a flexible and responsive training
scheme. This scheme involves a series of field seminars involving both
project staff and livestock producers and has the following special
features: (a) the seminars are taught by the project staff from
headquarters and the sectors, thus allowing a useful exchange of ideas and
of experiences between producers and project staff; (b) those attending
the seminars, usually the presidents, treasurers and ordinary members of
the livestock producers' cooperative societies (para. 5.17) in addition to
extension workers, have proved a useful link with the remaining producers.
They have played a key role in the dissemination of information to their
colleagues; and (c) seminars are supplemented by the publication of the
"Memento de l'Eleveur de l'Ituri", a well conceived training document
written in a local language, and by radio broadcasts and the distribution
of educational pamphlets. About 50 hours of radio broadcasts in local
languages are now made per year, while 6,000 short pamphlet copies are
edited and distributed each month.
3.09     Organization and Management.  The entire expatriate technical
assistance team has been maintained throughout the project implementation
period. Most key posts for Zairian nationals have been filled most of the
time and the performance has been adequate except in a few instances.
Performance of the expatriate technical assistance team has been remarkable
despite the difficult working conditions prevailing in the project area.



- 24 -
C.  Project Impact
3.10     Due to the general lack of data on the impact of project
activities and more specifically on the incidence of diseases both before
and after the introduction of animal health activities, it is difficult to
assess the impact of project activities. The proposed North East Rural
Development Project includes a study component to address this shortcoming
(para 4.09).
3.11     Although it is difficult to measure the impact of anthelmintic
(deworming) treatments, some indication will be obtained at meat inspection
when the Bunia abattoir has been rehabilitated. Benefits of the vaccina-
tion program against blackleg would appear to be positive because of the
acceptance for the continued need of the program by producers who seem well
acquainted with the ravages of this endemic disease. The impact of the
brucellosis vaccination program will have to await maturity of vaccinated
cows to determine their levels of abortion following vaccination.
3.12     Probably the single most important achievement of the project
is the creation in 1979 of the Ituri Livestock Producers Cooperative
Societies Union (ACOOPELI (para. 5.16)). There are now 117 societies
(PRODELS) with a total membership of close to 90% of all livestock
producers. ACOOPELI and the PRODELS are essential as active intermediaries
between the BPI and the producers. The PRODELS are responsible for
managing dip and purchasing veterinary products from BPI and selling them
at cost to the producers with the exception of acaricides which are still
60% subsidized. Although initially dependent on BPI both financially and
for management support, ACOOPELI is gradually becoming self-sufficient. It
now has its own paid personnel, has acquired its own offices and has its
own separate accounts. Its main sources of funds are membership fees from
the PRODELS and the sale of veterinary and other products.
3.13     Another major achievement of the project is the setting up of
livestock experimental stations. BPI has renovated three stations and put
them at the disposal of ACOOPELI. It has also attributed four stations to
progressive producers to serve as pilot or demonstration stations to teach
improved breeding techniques. The three ACOOPELI stations are also used
for demonstration purposes and will be partially exploited as seed
production farms under the proposetd Project (para. 6.04).
3.14     Problems of competition for the same land by agriculturalists and
pastoralists led BPI to create a land management section whose main
function is to delimit pasture grounds and set up boundary stones (para
3.06). That section is now recognized by local administrative authorities
on whose behalf it is acting.
3.15     In conclusion, preliminary results of project activities to date
indicate that although their impact cannot be readily estimated, the
project has played a vital role in changing producers' mentalities, thereby
laying the groundwork for future actions. It it important to emphasize
that activities to date represent only the start of a long-term program and
that unless they are sustained, many benefits will not materialize and
gains to date, particularly in the vital area of institution building, will
be lost. The major lessons learned are that : (a) producers can be more
effectively reached if they are organized at the grassroots level; (b) an
effective data gathering system must be instituted not only to monitor
implementation activities but alsc, to assess their impact in the project



- 25 -
area and to aid in the design of future programs, (c) a clear definition of
relationships between the external financing agencies and the Zairian
Government is indispensable to effective project implementation, (d) an
adequate price policy is important if producers are to be motivated, (e) a
minimum level of marketing infrastructure is indispensable for proper
marketing of meat and foodcrops; and (f) an effective training program is
essential. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the
North East Rural Development Project through (a) the continuing important
role of, and assistance given to ACOOPELI (para 5.21); (b) the design of a
study and data gathering component (para 4.09); (c) measures to help the
Government better address the important pricing issue under the agricul-
tural technical assistance project and as part of the Action Plan (paras
1.04, 1.46 and 6.10); (d) measures taken regarding marketing infrastructure
(paras 5.21 and 6.10); and (e) the continuation of the current successful
training scheme (para 3.08).
IV - THE PROJECT
A - Objectives and General Description
4.01     The Project would be a continuation of the Ituri Livestock Project
which was conceived as part of a long-term development program for the
sub-region. This second phase takes into account the fact that livestock
producers represent less than 10% of the farming families in Ituri and that
it is therefore necessary to devote increasing attention to foodcrop
production. It also recognizes that attainment of long-term development
objectives will depend to a great extent on the building of strong rural
institutions such as ACOOPELI to provide effective services to farmers.
Accordingly, its main objectives would be (a) to increase livestock and
foodcrop production, thereby increasing smallholders' incomes; (b) to
strengthen rural development institutions; and (c) to support the
Government's efforts to elaborate more adequate agricultural policies. The
Project would thus continue to provide support to livestock producers and
especially to strengthen their cooperative movement (para. 5.16). It would
also include new development activities in support of cropping.  Since most
rural dwellers are small farmers, continued emphasis on livestock activi-
ties alone would alienate livestock producers from other farmers and create
greater income disparities between these two groups (para 2.04 - 2.05).
The Project is an important element of the Government's agricultural
strategy (para 1.48) whose priority objective is to make Zaire self-
sufficient in foodcrops by increasing production.
4.02     Construction of new dips would not start until completion of the
two-year preliminary study (para 4.09). To allow for the proper
implementation of the delayed activities the Project would be implemented
over a seven-year period and would include the following components:
(a)  A program for the rehabilitation of veterinary
and animal production services and infra-
structure and for the provision of veterinary
products;
(b) A program to provide extension services and
agricultural inputs to develop production of
foodcrops and smallholder coffee;
(c)  Human health services;



- 26 -
(d)  A basic data study on the major livestock
diseases and agricultural activities, to set up
a program to monitor and evaluate the impact of
project activities,
(e) Other studies, training, pilot activities and
trials, including limlited assistance to
fisheries and marketing;
(f) Selective maintenanceb and rehabilitation of
infrastructure such als roads and bridges; and
(g) Technical assistance to the Project management
unit (BPI) and to ACOOPELI
4.03     The existing Ituri Project Unit, BPI (para 5.01) would have
principal responsibility for project implementation under the general
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(Chapter V).
B. Detailed Features
Veterinary and Animal Production Services and Infrastructure
4.04     The objective of this component is to reduce cattle mortality,
increase birth rates, the average cattle weights and cows' lactation. The
Project would provide a tick control program, inoculations, veterinary
treatments, clinical and animal production advisory services throughout the
Project area. Animal health improvement activities would be carried out
as under the Ituri project except for the construction of new dips which
would not be undertaken until the result of the basic data study is known
(paras 4.09 - 4.13).
4.05     Animal Health.  The Animal Health program would consist of: (a)
treatment of cattle with polyvalent anthelmintics twice a year. Since 87%
of cattle is currently treated, thle objective at full development (year 7)
would be to reach more than 90% of the cattle in Ituri; (b) annual vaccina-
tions against blackleg. About 73% of cattle are reported to have been
vaccinated in the last year of the Ituri project as farmers gained a good
knowledge of the effects of blackleg on cattle vaccination; (c) twice a
year brucellosis vaccination of cows aged 12-24 months and one vaccination
the following year.  The objective would be to cover 80% of the female
population by year 7, up from about 33% currently; and (d) treatment of
cattle with trypanocides in tse-tse infested areas. During the first two
Project years, no new dips would be constructed except those planned under
the study (para 4.09) but existing dips would continue to function
normally. Upon completion of the basic data study, the program to control
tick and tickborne diseases would be revised based on the study results.
Investment items for animal health activities would be infrastructure such
as dips (if necessary), spray races, spray pumps, dispensaries, offices,
housing and stores, veterinary products, vehicles for veterinary personnel,
simple laboratory equipment, tools and some operating costs. To ensure
that no dips are built outside of the context of the basic data study and
the recommendations that will result from it, special care will be taken in
reviewing the annual work programs (paras 5.12 - 5.14) not to approve
unwarranted provisions for the construction of dips.



- 27 -
4.06     Animal production.  Animal production activities would seek to
develop better natural and collective pastures to improve grazing
management and cattle husbandry practices. The poor state of pastures
has contributed to low or no cattle weight gains, poor health to some
extent and could lead to overgrazing in the central sector in the future
(para 2.03). A major extension effort would be made through radio
broadcasts, pamphlets and regular extension work to convince producers
of the necessary link between weight gains, lactation, animal health and
proper cattle feeding. The land management section (para 3.14) would
continue to set boundaries and the PRODELS would play a key role in the
management of collective pastures. Primary attention would be given to the
introduction of grazing rotations, eradication of bush and poor grass
species, reseeding fallow land with setaria and introduction of legumes,
particularly stylosanthes. ACOOPELI's three stations would be used to
produce the required seeds (para 5.06). The impact of all the pasture
improvement efforts would be closely monitored. In addition, herd improve-
ment measures would be undertaken and include: selection of breeding
stock,castration, cow culling, and supplemental feeding of minerals. On a
pilot basis, a closely monitored genetic improvement program would also be
undertaken. Improved breeding bulls would be kept at ACOOPELI's three
stations which would also be used for demonstration purposes. As under the
ongoing project, the development and supervision of rural markets and
slaughterhouses would also be done by animal production personnel. The
main investment items would include vehicles, buildings and other
infrastructure, fencing materials, equipment, and some incremental
operating costs.
Crop Development
4.07     The crop development component would seek to increase food
production and to improve management of existing smallholders' coffee
holdings which are rundown (para 2.08). Given the high prices of inputs
such as fertilizers, the serious problems that their procurement would pose
due to the remoteness of the project area and the lack of basic tools and
improved planting materials, this would be done through provision of basic
tools and production and distribution of selected seeds of the main
foodcrops. Projects based on improvement ot planting materials alone in
other countries have shown that substantial yield increases can be obtained
by the introduction of selected seeds without fertilizer use.
Simultaneously, farming systems trials would be carried out. Their purpose
would be to explore ways of maintaining or improving soil fertility through
adequate crop rotations and the introduction of soil regenerating crops.
The major foodcrops involved would be maize, beans, groundauts, sweet
potatoes, paddy and millet. Seeds would be produced at two of the the
three ACOOPELI livestock stations using animal traction and hired labor.
The major investment items would be tools such as hoes, matchettes and
pruning saws, equipment, buildings, vehicles, limited seed processing
equipment, materials, supplies, and some incremental operating costs.
Human Health Services
4.08     To comply with local labor regulations, BPI has had to operate an
infirmary for the benefit of its employees. These human health activities
would be pursued on a limited basis under the proposed Project and would
include both preventive and curative treatments mainly for malaria,
parasites and bronchitis. Funds would be required for the import of
necessary medicines and the procurement and operation of vehicles for field
missions to treat employees stationed in parts of the Project area.



- 28 -
Basic Data Study, Monitoring & Evaluation
4.09     At present, no reliable data exist on crop production yields and
areas cultivated, on livestock diseases and on the impact of project
activities (para 3.10). For livestock activities, the methods of tick and
tickborne disease control are undergoing considerable technological changes
that require a better knowledge of population dynamics and a more exact
diagnosis of tickborne diseases. The objectives of the basic data study in
the livestock sector would therefore be: (a) to determine the seasonal
distribution of the major tick species on cattle in each project sector
before and after introduction of clips; (b) to determine the incidence of
major tickborne diseases on cattle in each Project sector both before and
after introduction of dipping, (c) to determine the impact of dipping on
tick numbers, on incidence of tickborne diseases and on cattle
productivity; (d) to make better use of existing data, (e) to collect data
on other livestock diseases; and (f) to provide local and overseas training
for Zairian personnel in tick identification, diagnosis of tickborne and
other diseases and conduct of epidlemiological investigations.
4.10     The study would be conducted in three phases:  the first phase
would last about six months and would involve overseas training of
personnel, purchase of equipment, renovation of cattle holding facilities
in study areas if necessary and selection of study herds. Simultaneously,
implementation of a recent study by a French consultancy team on a system
to determine herd population, structure and the basic production parameters
would be undertaken over the Project area. The second phase would be the
implementation of an epidemiological study over a two-year period. One
study site would be selected in each project sector. This site would be in
the ecological zone and involve the ethnic group in that sector which are
most closely associated with catt]e production.  In each site, three cattle
herds of about 10, 50 and 100 heacd each would be selected.  None of these
cattle would be exposed to any acaricides during the first year of the
second phase.  They would also not be exposed to any drugs having any
effect on the tickborne diseases considered. Compensation would be
provided to owners who lose their cattle as a result of the study. At the
beginning of the second year of phase II, a dip would be constructed at
each site and all cattle in the selected herds dipped weekly. All other
routine vaccinations and treatments performed by the Project would be
administered to the study herds whose cattle would be examined at monthly
intervals for evidence of tickborne infections. Whole-body tick counts
would be carried out on 2 cattle from the smallest herds and 10% of the
cattle from the larger herds, the same cattle being examined each time
after being eartagged. Information on morbidity and mortality would be
collected on pre-determined forms for each sick animal and post-mortems
performed on animals that die.
4.11      In addition to collectingr data on normal production parameters
such as calving and mortality rates, the on-going productivity of every
animal in each study herd would be monitored by weighing each one at
monthly intervals. Data on weekly milk yield on all cows would also be
collected. All smears, disease and other data would be regularly forwarded
to Project headquarters for collation. The third phase of the study would
comprise a detailed analysis of these data, the quantification of the
benefits of the results obtained and the formulation of future policy on
disease control in Ituri and livestock development in general from the
sound data base established. This last phase would take approximately two
months and would be done by short--term consultants (para 4.17).



- 29 -
4.12     For agricultural activities, the first priority would be to
establish a sounder set of agricultural statistics. This would be followed
by the development of a simple system for reporting key indicators to
monitor implementation of project activities and their impact on farmers.
A base line survey to determine the scope and level of agricultural
activities would be carried out at the start of Project activities based on
a limited sample of farmers. Subsequently, periodic surveys would be
undertaken to compile key agricultural indicators including areas
cultivated, quantities and costs of inputs supplied and utilized, and
yields obtained for major crops.
4.13     The organization of the study component is described in paragraph
5.08.  The major investment items would include two four-wheel drive
vehicles, high-resolution binocular microscopes and other supplies such as
bottles, chemical products, minor laboratory equipment, tools and materials
for construction or renovation of cattle holding facilities, and
incremental operating costs.
Other Studies, Pilot Activities, Trials and Training
4.14     Studies, Pilot activities and trials.  In addition to the basic
data study (para 4.09), funds for preparation of future rural development
projects or programs and for other studies and trials such as pedological
studies, investigations on farming systems (i.e. size of plots, cultural
methods, crops cultivated, introduction of legumes and foodcrops storage
and marketing), soil erosion and population pressure on land have also been
included in Project costs. Because of the importance of fishing activities
on Lake Mobutu (para 2.21) limited funds have been made available for the
purchase of fishing gear to be sold by ACOOPELI to fishermen (para 5.21).
A pilot credit scheme would also be undertaken (para 5.09). For all
studies or project preparation work, both terms of reference and proposed
contracts should be submitted to IDA for approval. IDA should also approve
procedures for the selection of consultants to carry out such studies.
Agreement was obtained on this at negotiations.
4.15     Training.  The objectives of the training program would be to
improve performance of the Project staff. Training would first be provided
as part of the basic data study (para 4.09). Additional training would be
provided to other Project, ACOOPELI and PRODEL staff botli on the job, in
Zaire and overseas as appropriate. The types of local training provided
would include: (a) initial orientation at induction of new staff, (b)
phased basic training for existing staff in skills required for new
technology or procedures; and (c) refresher training and in-service
training for existing staff. Training in other countries would be provided
through about 12 fellowships and study tours. A total of about 50 middle
and higher level Zairian staff would benefit from the training program.
Training would continue to be provided to farmers and liîvestock producers
under the current scheme of field seminars (para 3.08) held simultaneously
for veterinary agents and livestock producers. The main investment items
would be for materials and scholarships.
Selective Maintenance & Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
4.16     The deteriorated state of roads and, in some instances, bridges is
a serious impediment to development activities in the Project area (para
2.24). The Proposed project would not seek to address this problem in a
massive way as it would not have the resources or the expertise to do so.



- 30 -
The infrastructure improvement component would seek to facilitate access to
dips or PRODEL warehouses for easier delivery of products by maintaining
about 100 kms per year of frequent:ly used access roads and about 20
bridges.  The main investment items would be vehicles  small tools,
equipment and operating costs.
Technical Assistance
4.17     Under the ongoing project, the French Ministry  of Cooperation
(FAC) is providing a team of eight experts that includes the project
manager, the accounting and finance manager, the animal production manager,
the animal health services manager; the extension and training manager, t'e
construction manager, the chiet mechanics and a nurse. Although a limired
number of Zairian higher level staff employed by BPI have performed
adequately, it would be necessary to continue to provide a team of
internationally recruited experts for a period during implementation of the
proposed project. Consequently, FAC would continue to provide staff for
the posts listed above. In addition, they would also provide an
agriculturalist to manage the agricultural program (para 5.07). Because of
the importance of the Bunia abattoir for meat marketing (para 2.23) and the
increasingly important role that ACOOPELI will play (para 5.21), CIDA will
provide the following experts to support it. a management expert to help
manage the abattoir, a cooperative development expert who would also manage
the pilot credit scheme (para 5.09) and a cooperative management expert. A
tick specialist financed by IDA would also be hired for two years to manage
the basic data study (para 4.09) and other consultants recruited for
studies, to analyze the survey results and formulate an appropriate disease
control program. The average man-month cost of the specialists would vary
from US$6,000 to about US$10,000 (including salaries, overhead costs, tees,
international travel and subsistence).  IDA would be consulted for the
recruitment of all outside specialists. The qualifications, terms and
conditions of employment of consultants financed under the IDA Credit,
including the tick specialist, would be submitted to IDA for approval.
Agreement was obtained on this at negotiations. Training responsibilities
would be an important part of their responsibilities. All consultants
would be gradually replaced by their Zairian colleagues subject to their
satisfactory performance.
C. Project Costs
4.18     Total Project costs are estimated at about US $30.2 million, of
which about US $22.9 million or 75.8% represent foreign exchange costs.
Details are summarized below:



- 31 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(US$ Million)          % of
---------------------  Foreign    % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange   Base Costs
A.  Livestock Development
Animal Health               1.6      2.7     4.3      63.4         19.2
Other Livestock Dev.        0.4     2.0      2.5      82.8         11.1
Subtotal Livestock Dev.   2.0       4.8      6.7      70.5         30.3
B.  Agricultural Development  1.3        5.1      6.4     79.9         28.9
C.  Human Health                0.1      0.7     0.8      82.3          3.8
D.  Pilot Activities, Research
Studies, Training          0.3     0.7      1.0      72.6          4.3
E.  Central Project Manage-
ment and Support
Services                  1.6     5.7      7.3      77.5          32.8
Total BASELINE COSTS            5.3    17.0    22.3       76.0         100.0
Physical Contingencies        0.5      1.7     2.2      76.0          10.0
Price Contingencies           1.5      4.2     5.7      72.9          25.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             7.3    22.9    30.2       75.8         135.6
The above costs are incremental and do not include salaries for the
existing work force or recurrent expenditures to run existing veterinary
infrastructure. They do include, however, BPI headquarter costs which
comprise equipment and vehicle maintenance and operating costs, utility and
building maintenance costs and staff salaries. Project costs were
estimated on the basis of prices expected to prevail in January 1983. A
physical contingency of 10% was applied to all Project costs to reflect
general uncertainty about the detailed scope of Project investments. This
rate is based on the knowledge gained on local conditions under the Ituri
project. Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis at a
rate of 8% for 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985, 6.0% in 1986 and
thereafter according to guidelines for international prices.  It is felt
that any inflation above that level would be substantially offset by the
devaluation that would follow.  Taxes and duties included in Project costs
are negligible since virtually all items would be exempt from taxes and
duties. Project cost details are given in Table 1.
D. Financing
4.19     Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
US$ million  %
Government of Zaire                           3.2       il
CIDA                                         10.0       33
FAC                                           3.0       10
ACOOPELI                                      1.0        3
IDA                                          13.0       43
Total Project Costs                          30.2      100



- 32 -
4.20     The proposed IDA credit would be effective only when financing
agreements on this Project have been signed with CIDA and FAC, and the
Governnent has satisfied the conditions of all these agreements. In the
case of suspension of CIDA or FAC financing, IDA would retain the right to
suspend the right of the Borrower t:o make withdrawals from the Credit. The
proposed IDA credit of SDR 12.3 million (US$13.0 million) would be made to
the Government of Zaire on standard IDA terms. It would finance about 43%
of total Project costs and cover 100% of foreign exchange and 90% of local
expenditures for the following components: livestock and crop development,
human health; pilot activities; research and training; and BPI operating
costs. Local cost financing is justified by the Goverament's difficult
budgetary situation. CIDA would provide about US$10 million to finance all
foreign exchange and 90% of local expenditures for technical assistance to
ACOOPELI, veterinary products and supplies, marketing studies, equipment,
vehicles and some agricultural tools on a grant basis. FAC would provide
an estimated US$3.0 million as a grant in the form of technical assistance
to BPI. The Goverament of Zaire would contribute US$3.25 million and
ACOOPELI US$1.05 million towards local costs. The Government has requested
a US$ 0.8 million PPF to start preparing the basic data study (para 4.09).
Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the Government would make its
contribution to BPI in a timely fashion in four quarterly installments to
be made available to BPI no later t:han the last day of the first month of
each quarter.
E. Procurement
4.21     For the acquisition of materials and supplies (US$5.4 million
including contingencies), vehicles, equipment and machinery (US$5.2 million
including contingencies), individual contracts of less than US$300,000 and
not exceeding US$1,500,000 in the aggregate would be awarded following
local competitive bidding accordingr to Government procedures which were
examined at appraisal and found satisfactory. Under Government procedures,
bids are requested from local firms in the local newspapers by the
technical ministry directly concerned. Bidding documents are generally
comprehensive and include clear instructions to tenderers, form of tender,
conditions of contract, technical specifications, etc. Once bids are
received they are opened and evaluated by a committee chaired by a high
level official of the technical ministry and consisting of representatives
from key ministries such as finance, planning and economic affairs and
awards are made on the basis of agreed criteria. Individual contracts
exceeding US$300,000 (including contingencies) would be subject to
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Orders would be bulked whenever possible.
4.22     Civil Works.  Civil work constructions (US$1.8 million including
contingencies), due to their dispersed locations and the difficult working
conditions in the Project area, especially for firms with no experience in
Zaire, would be carried out by local tender or by a negotiated civil works
contract if only one contractor is interested as was the case under the
Ituri Livestock Project. They would be carried out by force account if no
satisfactory contractor is availab]e . Procurement of veterinary drugs and
equipment (US$1.4 million includingr contingencies) would be done following
international competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Because of
the risk of the emergence of disease resistance to some of the drugs,
consideration will be given in awar-ding the contract to the capacity of the
prospective supplier to manufacture a range of products and to provide back



- 33 -
up laboratory services for checking disease resistance to drugs on a
systematic basis. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the above
procurement procedures would be followed.
F. Disbursements
4.23     Funds from the IDA credit would be disbursed over eight years on
the following basis:
Category                                                       US$ million
1.  Civil Works                         100% of foreign  )    To be allo-
2.  Equipment                           and 90% of local )    cated to
3.  Materials & Supplies                expenditures      )    categories
and other operating costs                                  on the basis
(fuel and spares)                                          of annual
work pro-
4.  Technical Assistance and              - ditto -       )    grams
training                                              )
5.  Studies, Pilot activities, trials   - ditto -         )
TOTAL IDA CREDIT                                           13.0
of which reimbursement of advance under PPF           .8
Disbursements would be subject to the approval of an annual work program
(para 5.12), with due consideration to the conclusions of the basic data
study on the advisability of dip construction (para 4.05). Disbursements
against all categories would be fully documented, except that disbursements
against civil works in category 1, if carried out by force account and
against category 3 would be against statements of expenditures certified by
BPI manager and the accounting and finance manager for local expenditures
and against full documentation for foreign expenditures. A full
documentation would be retained by BPI and made available to IDA for
inspection in the course of noraal Project supervision mission. This
arrangement has been satisfactory under the Ituri Livestock project. As
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 2, based on start of
Project implementation in January 1983. The disbursement profile for
agricultural projects has averaged about 8 years for the Eastern Africa
region for 114 projects covering the 1970-80 period and slightly over eight
years for Zaire. Under the first Ituri Livestock project and despite an
initial project implementation delay of two years, disbursements are
expected to be completed over 6.5 years as planned. Consequently, a
disbursement period of 8.0 years has been scheduled taking into account a
seven year implementation period.
G. Accounts and Auditing
4.24     BPI would maintain records and accounts adequate to explain all
Project activities. These accounts and the statements of expenditures
would be audited separately by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
would be submitted to the Association within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. The auditors would specifically review and comment on the
procedures used for control of disbursement against statements of
expenditures. Agreement was obtained on all the above at negotiations.
Accounts of the Ituri Livestock Project were regularly audited by
internationally recruited auditors in a satisfactory fashion and it is



- 34 -
expected that accounts for 1982, the last year of project implementation,
will be audited by June 30, 1983.
H.  Environmental Impact
4.25      The proposed Project is not expected to have any adverse impact on
the environment. However, due to land pressure in some parts of the
Project area and to the consequent signs of land deterioration, funds are
included for a study of soil deterioration and farming systems to find ways
of alleviating land pressure and arresting over-exploitation of farm land
(para 4.14). No overgrazing is expected as a result of the projected
increase in cattle herd size mainly because projected increases in herd
size as a result of the Project are modest (para 7.03), the current low
levels of stocking rates (para 2.03), and foreseen improvements in pasture
management.
V - ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Organization and Staff
5.01       The on-going Ituri Livestock project is carried out under the
general responsibility of the State Secretary for Agriculture who presides
over a project policy and coordinating committee which meets at least once
a year. This Committee includes the following members: the director of
livestock, the manager and deputy manager of the project, the director
general of ONDE, and representatives from the Ministries of Finance,
National Economy, Interior, Ituri Livestock producers and the Secretariat
for Rural Development. A sub-regional consultative committee chaired by
the sub-regional commissioner and consisting of representatives of the
sub-regional administrative services is responsible for following up on
project implementation, transmitting its observations to central, national
authorities, and lending its support to BPI as appropriate, through
administrative measures. It is convened twice a year and has helped BPI
solve a number of difficult problemis. The Project itself is managed by the
Ituri project unit (BPI) which is headquartered in Bunia. BPI is part of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development but enjoys a considerable
degree of administrative and management autonomy and is headed by an
expatriate manager seconded by a Zairan deputy manager. The manager
reports directly to the director of livestock. BPI consists of an
administration and finance department and the following five technical
departments: animal health, animal production, extension and training,
construction, and mechanical. In addition, there is an infirmary. All
these departments are currently headed by expatriates with one or two
Zairan deputies each for the most part. BPI currently provides technical
assistance to ACOOPELI in the management of its livestock stations, its
stocks of veterinary products and their distribution, in the management of
the dips and in keeping its accounts in order.
5.02       Geographically, the Project area is divided into three sectors.
At the head of each sector is a Zairan veterinarian or zootechnician.
These Zairan staff are stationed at sector headquarters in Aru for the
northern sector, Nioka for the central sector, and Bunia for the southern
sector. They also act as deputies to the expatriate heads of departments.
Sectors are further divided into two sections each, the sections themselves
being subdivided into "groupements" (27 in total) which are broken down
into dispensaries (108 in total). "Groupements" are headed by veterinary
assistants and dispensaries by "infirmiers veterinaires" (veterinary
agents). A Project liaison office in Kinshasa is responsible for most
procurement and logistics matters.



- 35 -
5.03      The proposed Project would be organized and managed just like the
on-going project as described above (paras. 5.01-5.02). The only
significant change would be the addition of an agricultural department
which would also be headed by an internationally  recruited specialist and
the membership of ACOOPELI to the sub-regional consultative committee.  BPI
will occupy its present offices and the Governnent would be requested to
provide evidence at negotiations that it has taken steps to secure these
offices for BPI for the duration of Project implementation. The proposed
overall organizational chart is given in Chart 2. Assurances would be
sought at negotiations that internationally recruited experts (para 4.17)
would be maintained in their posts as appropriate during implementation and
that competent Zairan staff would be maintained in the following key posts
when necessary during Project implementation: deputy project manager;
deputy animal health manager; deputy animal production manager, deputy
accounting and finance manager; deputy extension and training manager,
deputy construction manager, deputy chief mechanic, assistant to the nurse,
and deputy agricultural services manager. Subject to satisfactory
performance, these national staff members would be called upon to replace
the expatriates at the earliest possible date. Agreement was obtained
on all the above at negotiations. Staffing plans and status would be part
of annual work plans and reports to be submitted (paras 5.14 - 5.15). BPI
would establish a compensation plan to offer adequate incentives to its
staff, as now done under the Ituri Livestock project. Agreement was
obtained on this at negotiations.
B. Management of Project Components
Veterinary and Animal Production Services and Infrastructure
5.04      Veterinary Activities:  Veterinary activities would continue to
be managed as under the first Ituri project by the animal health
department. As such, it would be responsible for (a) all activities
pertaining to animal health control, cattle movements both within the
project area and between this area and outside regions and meat inspection
in the project area; (b) the organization and supervision of all
vaccination campaigns (para. 4.05); (c) the organization and supervision of
all tick and tickborne disease control activities; (d) the organization and
distribution of veterinary products to ACOOPELI and the PRODELS or to
livestock producers as appropriate and depending on the management
capability of specific PRODELS; (e) the organization of cattle treatment
with anthelmintics twice a year; (f) the management of the veterinary
product warehouse following the guidelines of the administrative and
finance department; (g) the management of permanent monitoring and
evaluation of animal basic data study; training of its personnel and
livestock producers in close coordination with the training and extension
services; (i) follow up of all veterinary product procurement matters; and
(j) provision of assistance to the PRODELS in dip management as
appropriate.
5.05      Animal Production.  As under the Ituri project the principal
responsibilities of the animal production department will be the following:
(a) grassland improvement through the production and introduction of
legumes and better grass species to livestock producers; (b) production and
distribution of mineral supplement licks; (c) organization, management and
supervision of cattle markets.  It will also keep marketing statistics and
determine the desirability of opening new markets; (d) provision of
technical assistance to ACOOPELI (para. 5.18) in the management of its
livestock stations, (e) all genetic improvement activities; (f) management



- 36 -
of the land section and the attribution of livestock stations to selected
producers; (g) liaison with the agricultural department of BPI for
introduction of animal traction; (h) management of its own resources; and
(i) training of its own staff in coordination with the training and
extension department.
Crop Development
5.06      The crop development program would be the main responsibility of
the new agricultural department within BPI. Its main tasks would be (a) to
organize and implement seed production; (b) to work closely with BPI's
extension and training department in developing appropriate extension
themes to be transmitted to farmers through the audio-visual system already
in place (para. 3.08); (c) to design and follow implementation of trials on
farmers' fields; (d) to work closely with third parties such as BAT (para.
2.08) in supervising their agricultural program; and (e) to supervise
coffee pruning and the production of coffee seedlings to replace lost
trees. Under the Project, tools would be distributed by ACOOPELI through
its PRODELS (para. 5.17) which would provide a dense and well established
network not only for cattle growers but also for farmers. Tobacco growers
would continue to receive their tools through BAT. An agreement
satisfactory to IDA would be signed between BPI and BAT defining the terms
of their cooperation and indicating the items financed under the Project to
be made available to BAT for the farmers. Agreement was obtained on that
at negotiations. Because of its close association with farmers and the
good quality of its extension work force, BAT would be used to monitor the
effect of tools and inputs (fertilizers), on foodcrops used in rotation
with tobacco. Food crop seeds would be produced and processed on two of
the three ACOOPELI livestock stations starting in year two for the first
station near Bunia and year three for the other station. They would also
be distributed through the PRODELs. The expert in charge of the
agricultural program would be assisted by one agronomist in each livestock
station responsible for seed production; one agronomist in charge of field
trials, one agronomist in charge of extension and monitoring and evaluation
and one agronomist in charge of coffee development and necessary lower
level personnel.
Human Health Services
5.07      Human health services would continue to be managed by an
internationally recruited nurse assisted by a Zairian nurse as under the
Ituri project. The infirmary at Bunia would care for BPI employees, manage
the stock of medicine and ensure that patients are promptly evacuated to
the nearby Nyakunde missionary hospital as appropriate. In addition, field
trips wold be undertaken to assist BPI field personnel and their families
on a periodic basis.
The Basic Data Study
5.08      The study will be managed under the overall supervision of the
Project manager, but for livestock disease direct responsibility will lie
with an expatriate veterinarian recruited for that purpose (para 4.17). He
will work closely with the animal health manager, initially supervise the
study during the first two years and provide on-the-job training to
Zairans.  He will need to be fluent in French and to possess experience of
tickborne diseases and tick control, preferably in Africa. He will work
with one Zairian Veterinarian as his counterpart; three "infirmiers", one



- 37 -
per sector to monitor disease morbidity and mortality in tihe study herd and
to conduct post-mortem examination of all cattle dying in the study herds;
two veterinary assistants to collect blood and lymph node smears from the
cattle studies; two other assistants to conduct whole-body tick counts on
selected cattle; and one driver to transport the mobile investigating team
comprised of the four assistants mentioned above. Management of
agricultural statistics would be the responsibility of the internationally
recruited agriculturalist. A limited core group of about four surveyors
would be recruited and trained to conduct the base line survey (para.
4.12), to participate in subsequent periodic surveys and monitor and
compile basic agricultural statistics. About 75 to 100 farm families would
be surveyed annually.
Other Studies, Pilot Activities and Trials
5.09      Studies could be carried out either by BPI staff when they have
the time and expertise to do so or by outside consultants whose
qualifications, terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
IDA. Pilot activities and trials would be managed by the respective BPI
departments that are directly concerned or by ACOOPELI in the case of
marketing. The credit program would be preceded by a study of credit needs
in Ituri and managed by credit specialistsfinanced by CIDA (para 4.17). A
detailed pilot credit plan would then be elaborated and submitted as part
of the annual work plan (para 5.13). BPI would open a special bank accouat
to deposit all proceeds from the sale of products to ACOOPELI (para 5.21).
Credit applications under this scheme would be reviewed by the credit
committee (para 5.21) in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA.
Disbursement of funds from that account under the credit program would be
subject to IDA's and CIDA's approval. Agreement was obtained on the above
at negotiations.
Training
5.10      Training activities would be be linked with extension work.  As
such the training and extension department would work very closely with the
other technical departments. Its basic responsibilities would be the
following: (a) development of a main extension theme each month on
livestock and agricultural activities based on technical information and
specifications provided by the heads of other technical departments
including agriculture. These themes would then be transmitted to livestock
producers, farmers and BPI agents through radio broadcasts and technical,
simple and illustrated pamphlets as was done under the first Ituri
project. The program would be reinforced through regular meetings between
personnel and the producers; (b) organization of seminars for both BPI
agents and producers. There would be two seminars per month for about 100
participants each. These seminars would be based on specifically designed
teaching materials and would be held mainly in the field and, less
frequently, at either of the two training centers of Totoba and Ngabu; (c)
production and diffusion on a regular basis of and training materials; (d)
various small-scale studies such as the impact of the broadcasts on the
producers; and (e) liaison with local technical school and administrative
authorities to inform them of Project activities and seek their support.
Most of these activities would continue successful efforts which were well
managed under the first Ituri Livestock project. Training would also be
provided to ACOOPELI staff.



.- 38 -
Selective Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Infrastructure - Vehicles
Maintenance
5.11      Selective road maintenances and rehabilitation as well as other
infrastructure construction would be the responsibility of the construction
department of BPI and vehicles would be maintained by the mechanical
department. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the Government
would make available to BPI during project implementation and to ACOOPELI
thereafter the funds, facilities, equipment and services necessary for road
maintenance.
Annual Work Programs
5.12      The Project would be implemented on the basis of annual work
programs prepared by BPI with the participation of ACOOPELI. The programs
would serve as a planning, implementation and monitoring tool and provide
the necessary flexibility to ensure better Project adaptation to local
conditions. Preparation of each program would coincide with the
preparation of the government-wide investment budget to reduce the
risks of major discrepancies between the figures proposed in the program
and official government budget allocations. Government Budget preparation
starts in April and the law requires that the budget be submitted to
Parliament in early October.  Goverament ministries are requested to
forward their budget proposals to the Ministry of Planning during the first
half of July. These proposals are reviewed by the Budgetary Sub-Committee
during the rest of July and defended by individual ministries during the
month of August. A draft investment budget is then transmitted by the
Ministry of Planning to the Executive Council in early September. The
Council examines it and requests the Budgetary Sub-Committee to incorporate
its suggestions and amendments in the draft which, if necessary, is
reviewed by an Arbitration Committee chaired by the Prime Minister before
being transmitted to the Parliament in October.
5.13      The same timetable would be used in preparing the annual work
program in the following manner: the first draft work program would be
prepared along with the first budget proposals in the first half of July
and submitted to IDA for preliminary review and comments. Subsequently, an
updated draft would be prepared to reflect the suggestions and amendments
of the Executive Council made in September and submitted to IDA by the end
of October before the draft budget is transmitted to the Parliament. IDA's
approval of this updated draft would be a condition of disbursement for the
activities to which the work program applies. Agreement was obtained on
this at negotiations. This process would ensure that IDA can provide its
input in the early and final stages of the budget review.
5.14      Annual work programs have been consistently prepared by BPI
management under the Ituri Project and their preparation has been made
according to the timetable for the government-wide budget preparation
described above. However, no modifications have been made to the intial
program and budget proposed to reflect amendments made by the Budgetary
Sub-Committee, the Executive Council and the Parliament. The updating of
the work program introduced above (para. 5.13) is meant to address this
problem.  The work programs submitted by BPI have generally consisted of
two parts: the first part is a presentation of a detailed investment and
operating budget for the year, considered by Project component and sector
along with the proposed financing plan indicating the major sources of
financing; the second is a qualitative description of the activities to be
carried out including a detailed description of the terms of reference of



- 39 -
all BPI departments and ACOOPELI. The proposed Project's annual work
program would build on the existing format and include the following: (a)
a brief evaluation of the previous year's performance compared to
objectives and a discussion of how results obtained are related to the new
program; (b) detailed investment and operating budgets as done now; (c) a
description of the program of activities, including quantified implementa-
tion objectives, output performance and project impact indicators where
appropriate; (d) staffing and training plans with a statement of specific
objectives; (e) a financing plan; and (f) procurement plans. More details
on the contents of the work programs are given in Annex I.
5.15      Reporting and Mid-Term Review:  The current BPI system of
semi-annual reports would be maintained under the proposed Project whereby
a comprehensive description of all project activities is provided along
with an analysis of major problems encountered and requests for specific
decisions to be taken. These reports would also include a comparison
between actual implementation results and the objectives included in the
annual work program, project impact indicators and a comparison between
actual results and appraisal estimates. Explanations would be provided for
the differences. Thus the annual work programs and the semi-annual reports
would be an important aspect of Project monitoring and evaluation
activities. By the end of Year 4, BPI would prepare a mid-term report in
preparation for the mid-term review to be carried out at the end of the
year. BPI would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) no later than
six months after the closing date. Both the mid-term report and the PCR
would summarize Project performance, evaluate its successes and problems
and underline useful lessons to be taken into account in the future design
and implementation of similar projects. Agreement was obtained on this at
negotiations.
C.   ACOOPELI
5.16      Livestock producers in Ituri are organized into cooperative
societies called PRODELS (Promotion et Defense de l'Elevage). In 1979,
ACOOPELI (para 3.12), a cooperative union (Association des Eleveurs de
l'Ituri) was formed to represent all the PRODELS of the sub-region and is
headquartered in Bunia. ACOOPELI and the PRODELS are registered as
non-profit organizations. This section briefly reviews the structure and
functioning of both the PRODELS and ACOOPELI, the role they have played in
the implementation of the first Ituri project and their responsibilities
under the proposed Project.
5.17      PRODELS.  Ituri livestock producers are required by a June 1981
decision of the sub-regional commissioner to be members of their local
PRODEL, one per dispensary. PRODELS have as their main objectives: (a) to
ensure that livestock producers interests are well represented at all
levels within the sub-region; (b) to provide their memabers with livestock
and veterinary products; (c) to maintain and manage the dips; and (d) to
develop and manage communal pastures. Each PRODEL has a general assembly
which is responsible for the election of a board of directors of six for a
three year mandate. Board members are a president, a vice-president, a
secretary, a treasurer and two other members. Currently, there are 117
PRODELS with the following geographical distribution: 40 in the southern
sector, 47 in the central sector, 28 in the northern sector and two outside
the Project area. Total membership is about 14,000 and it is expected that
more PRODELS will be created. Members of PRODELS are required to
contribute to its equity by paying a membership fee of Z 0.50 (about



- 40 -
US$0.10) per cattle head. Other sources of funds for PRODELS include the
sale of veterinary products to their members with a small profit margin,
Goverament grants and loans. Funds are used mainly to acquire products and
to improve pastures.
5.18      ACOOPELI.  ACOOPELI was created in February 1979 as the union of
PRODELS at the sub-regional level and granted official status as a
non-profit organization. Its general assembly is made up of the presidents
of PRODELS, meets once a year, and elects the board of directors for three
years. Day-to-day management is entrusted to a permanent staff of 13
headed by a general manager. ACOOPELI's main functions are to procure
veterinary and other livestock products for the PRODELS and to manage the
three livestocks stations under its responsibility. It has derived its
income from the sale of products to the PRODELS (on credit) or directly to
producers (for cash) from part of membership fees paid to PRODELS (para.
5.17) and from grants by BPI. These funds are used mainly for the purchase
of veterinary products, equipment investments, and operating costs.
ACOOPELI is now officially a member of ANEZA, the national business
association. This membership entitles it to receive an allocation of
foreign exchange for its activities that are deemed economically sound.
5.19      Activities to date.  ACOOPELI has played an essential role in the
Ituri project by serving as an effective link between BPI, the regional
administrative authorities, the external financing agencies and the
producers. Producers' indifference to project activities is being
gradually overcome due in large part to BPI but also to ACOOPELI. It has
held 11 board meetings, and three general assembly meeting since its
creation. In 1980, 1981 and during the first half of 1982, ACOOPELI,
handled about Z 6.8 million worth of products (about US$1.2 million) and
extended to its members credits totalling close to Z 1 million (about
US$200 000). In addition to the sale of products to PRODELS, in 1981,
ACOOPELI took over from BPI the operations of three livestock stations,
covering a total area of 766 ha, one in each of the three sectors in the
Project area. These stations now have 206 head of cattle belonging to
ACOOPELI. Extensive work has already been undertaken in these stations in
pasture improvement and fencing. Some of them are being used for limited
extension activities such as demonstration of pasture improvement
techniques and of animal traction as well as the introduction of improved
stock. ACOOPELI and the PRODELS have provided valuable assistance to BPI
in demarcating and adjudicating communal grazing areas.
5.20      Finances.  ACOOPELI now has its own separate accounts which have
generally been found satisfactory over the past two years by the same
auditors who review BPI's accounts. Total revenues have increased from
about US$233,000 in 1980 to US$139,000 for the first half of 1982 while
expenditures have gone from US$51,000 to US$110,000 over the same period.
Resulting profits shown come mainly from the fact that many products and
equipment have been given free of charge to ACOOPELI by BPI. This practice
is being gradually phased out to make ACOOPELI financially autonomous.
Major problems encountered by ACOOPELI have included a slow payment of
membership fees and unsatisfactory credit reimbursement by various
PRODELS. As of December 1981, about 43% of total credit outstanding was
overdue but there has been a marked improvement owing mainly to an
intensive training program undertaken on financial matters for treasurers
of PRODELS and better follow-up and supervision of each PRODEL.



- 41 -
5.21      ACOOPELI under the proposed Project.  Under the proposed Project,
ACOOPELI would play an expanded role in livestock and agricultural
development activities and in some pilot programs. First, it would
continue to distribute medecines and would expand its activities to also
distribute tools and other inputs to farmers and fishing gear to
fis.hermen. Second, it would become responsible for the management of the
Bunia Abattoir. Although the abattoir component was in the first Ituri
project and has not been satisfactorily carried out, CIDA has now taken the
necessary steps to rehabilitate the abattoir and work is expected to be
completed by September 1983. Transfer of the abattoir management
responsibility to ACOOPELI would take place after rehabilitation has been
completed.   Definition of and agreement on a satisfactory transfer
mechanism would be a condition of credit effectiveness. It would be
essential to ensure that ACOOPELI will have the freedom to pass on the
costs of managing the abattoir to the users. Appropriate technical
assistance would be provided to ACOOPELI to ensure competent management of
the abattoir (para. 4.17). A major objective in fostering the growth of
ACOOPELI is to assist Ituri farmers in their efforts to better organize
themselves so that they can procure their own necessary inputs for the
development of the agricultural sector in the sub-region. ACOOPELI is thus
expected to become capable of providing to its members the services now
under the responsibility of veterinary and agricultural extension agents
with the exception of a few basic state run services. All products would
be sold at cost to PRODELS and their members to ensure that ACOOPELI is
financially strong. The distribution of agricultural inputs and tools
would be very modest at the beginning, starting with crop farmers who own
livestock and gradually expanded to all the farmers. Expansion of PRODEL
membership to include farmers would be investigated under the Project . A
projected ACOOPELI cash flow is given in Table 6.  The revenues from the
sale of these products to ACOOPELI would be set aside as counterpart funds
and used in a pilot credit scheme (para. 5.09). Credit applications under
this scheme would be reviewed by a committee consisting of the accounting
and finance manager and another staff member of BPI, the President and the
management specialist of ACOOPELI. Agreement was reached on this at
negotiations.
VI - Technical Features, Production and Markets
A. Technical Features
Veterinary and Animal Production
6.01     The Animal Health activities would be those described in para
4.05. Supplies of drugs such as tetracycline antibiotics for use in the
event of East Coast Fever outbreaks would also be acquired. At full
development, about 120,000 (or 40%) additional cattle head would be treated
through the use of either dips, spray races, pumps, vaccinations, genetic
improvement, biological control measures or a combination of any of them
based on the recommendations following the basic data study (para 4.09).
If dips are recommended, each dip would need to serve a minimum of 2500
head of cattle within a radius of eight to 10 kilometers.
6.02     Dip Management.  Several factors cause the strength of acaricides
in a dip to diminish with time, necessitating periodic replenishment of the
dipping tank to maintainan adequate concentration of acaricide.
Consequently, periodic chemical analyses of the concentrations of acaricide
in dipwashes will be made so that dips can be maintained at their correct
strength. Such chemical analyses can be carried out either at the dipping



- 42 -
tank or through the drug manutacturer. Replacement of dipwashes, based
upon the capacity of the dipping tank and the number of cattle passing
through the dip will be done systematically at regular and desired
intervals. All efforts would be made to encourage cattle owners to dip
their cattle every week if tick control is to be successful. A constant
problem associated with the use of acaricides for tick control is the
emergence of resistant strains of ticks.  Once tick resistance is
suspected, the dip manufacturer should be contacted, so that he can arrange
to check the acaricide and take away tick specimens to be checked for
resistance in the laboratory.
6.03     Immunization against East Coast Fever.  A UNDP/FAO Regional
Project "Research on Tickborne Diseases and Tick Control" to investigate
the feasibility of producing a vaccine against East Coast fever is being
carried out by scientists working in Kenya at the International Laboratory
for Research on Animal Diseases (ILRAD) and at the Kenya Veterinary
Research Institute. Two approaches towards immunization of cattle against
East Coast Fever are currently under investigation. However, there is no
method currently available for artificial immunization against East Coast
Fever that can be applied in a fie:Ld situation. When new methods are
available to fight ECF these will be incorporated in the animal health
component as appropriate. Recent work has demonstrated that some cattle
(especially in the Bos indicus breeds) have resistance to tick infestation
and that this resistance is heritable. This suggests the attractive
possibility of cattle tick control through selective breeding.
Unfortunately, there are no data oni resistance to ticks in Lugware, Bahema
and Alur cattle, the three breeds predominating in Ituri. Some suggestions
as to the relative susceptibility or resistance of these breeds to tick
infestation may be forthcoming froin the basic data study (para 4.09).
Crop Development
6.04     Farming families in the Project area would be supplied with tools
such as hoes, machettes and sickels for fooderop production. Saws, pulpers
and pruning shears would be provided to coffee growers and fertilizers,
pesticides and flat iron sheeting for flue pipes would be provided to
tobacco growers. Although no improved plant material is readily available
in the Project area, basic seeds can be obtained from other ongoing seed
projects in Zaire. Good quality seeds from local planting material would
initially be selected, reproduced and distributed. Simultaneously,
cultivars with good disease resistance would be gradually introduced from
such nationwide research programs as the "Programme National Manioc" for
cassava and sweet potatoes; from the "Plan National Mais" for maize; from
the Mulungu INERA station under a IJSAID sponsored program for beans; and
from other ongoing applied research stations in Zaire which have produced
or tried seeds under eco-climatic conditions similar to those in Ituri.
Seeds would be produced at two of the three Acoopeli livestock stations.
These stations would be equipped w:Lth adequate infrastructure under the
livestock component and would train bullocks for animal traction as is
already done under the Ituri project. Using hired labor and animal
traction about 40 to 50 ha would be cultivated on each station to produce
seeds from the second year of project implementation. Quantities of seeds
produced would vary from 20 tons in year 2 or 60 tons in years four and
five for maize. Corresponding figures for other crops would be 50 and 150
tons for beans, five and 15 tons for paddy and 20 tons for groundnuts.



- 43 -
B. Production
6.05     At full development (year 12) the improved veterinary and animal
husbandry services would increase the productivity of the traditional herd
by reducing cattle mortality, increasing liveweight at sale, improving
fertility, increasing milk production and contributing overall to a higher
herd growth. A better supply of agricultural inputs and improved
communications with farmers would increase foodcrops yields and production.
6.06     To illustrate the production impact of Project activities, it has
been assumed that 40%/O of the cattle would be incrementally treated against
ticks and tickborne diseases at full development and close to 100% would
receive the full range of other veterinary treatments when applicable as a
result of the Project. It is further assumed that the impact of tick and
disease control activities on production parameters would be as given in
Table 8 at full development. This would translate into the following
production increase by year 12 for the 40% of the cattle:
Total number of cattle without Project        120 000
Total number of cattle with Project           143 000
Incremental cattle:                            23 000
Increase in %                                    19%
Milk Production without Project ('000 1)        3 900
Milk Production with Project    ('000 1)        6 700
Incremental production ('000 1)                 2 600
Increase in %                                     72%
About 60% of the incremental milk production would be consumed by calves.
There would also be a weight gain of about 7 - 10% per head for the total
adult cattle. This would represent about 5,040 tons liveweight.
6.07     Incremental foodcrop production as a result of the use of better
tools and improved seeds would be obtained from about 40% of the farmers at
full development (year 10) and would be as follows concerning the major
crops listed.
Without Project   With Project   % increase
Maize grain (tons)           4 307              5 814           35
Beans (tons)                4 140               4 830           17
Fresh Cassava (tons)       28 512              35 640           25
Sweet Potatoes (tons)       10 520             12 624           20
Paddy (tons)                8 000              10 000           25
Most of these increases would come from increased yields due to use of more
adequate tools and better seeds.  Incremental production of coffee would be
about 200 tons.
C. Markets & Prices
6.08     Impact of the Project.  The proposed Project would increase herd
size by about 8% and milk production by about 35% at full development (para
6.06).  The incremental production would come mainly from the additional
proportion of cattle population treated against tick and tickborne
diseases. About seven to 15% more foodcrops would be produced between



- 44 -
Project years five and 1(. These increases are negligible on a national
scale and would not have a negative impact on local Ituri prices since they
fail to even raatch expected population growth (2.7% per annum) and thus
demand. The Government's efforts co liberalize prices (paras 1.26 - 1.27)
of agricultural and agro-industrial projects would be pursued in the
Project area. The impact of this policy on production would be monitored
and reviewed periodically with the Association. Agreement was obtained on
this at negotiations.
6.09     Although milk production is projected to increase by about 72%
within the target group as defined in para 6.06, more than half of this
increase is expected to be consumed by healthier and more numerous calves.
This would bring the growth rate closer to that of the human population and
therefore it has been assumed that most milk would continue to be consumed
on or near the farm and no new special marketing infrastructure would be
required.
6.10     Beef.  Given the modest increase in cattle herd size (about 23,000
head, para6.706) and assuming an offtake of about 8% for commercial
purposes, incremental meat production would be about 293 tons of carcass at
full development (year 12). This would represent an increase of about 10%
over current supply (para 2.26). Traditionally, about 3-4% of Ituri beef
production has been shipped to Kinshasa (para 2.26). Because of the rate
of population growth it can be assumed that about a similar proportion of
the additional production would be shipped to Kinshasa, or about 10 extra
tons, a relatively negligible amount. The extent to which more meat would
be shipped to Kinshasa will depend on future trends in the Ituri sub-region
per capita meat consumption, population increase and meat price
elasticities, and farmers' propensity to sell (para 2.23), all factors
which are difficult to predict.
6.11     Foodcrops.  Ituri has been a traditional food supplier to the low
lands of Haut-Zaire and its main fcod export has been beans, a crop not
grown in the lowlands, in exchange for palm oil. Cassava and maize are
also regularly exported from Ituri. These exports have continued to
increase in spite of the bad state of roads. There is also a large growing
local demand for foodcrops from go]d searching farmers who have abandoned
their farms and from the relatively large population of fishermen along
Lake Mobutu. Studies under the proposed Project would seek to gather more
information of these marketing flows.
6.12     Cotton, Tobacco and Coffee.  Marketing of cotton is handled by
SOTEXCO and that of tobacco by the British American Tobacco Company.
Project activities would have only a minor impact on coffee production.
VII - PROJECT JUSTIFIICATION & ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Justification & Benefits
7.01    General.  The proposed Project constitutes an important element of
the Government's program to achieve! food self-sufficiency and increase the
revenues of the rural population. Production of crops and livestock is
expected to increase by 11 500 tons; and 23 000 cattle head respectively at
full development; that of milk by 2.6 million liters. In addition, a
number of pilot activities and studies would provide a better understanding
of economic activities in the Project area and lay the groundwork for



- 45 -
further development activities. Finally, by strengthening ACOOPELI and
seeking to make it financially autonomous, the Project would contribute to
the restructuring of the rural sector around a strong cooperative movement
that would reduce the need for active Government involvement in extension
and productive activities.
7.02     Production and Benefits.  Overall the Project would generate
substantial benefits at full development. Incremental production of
livestock and the principal crops, mainly beans, maize, sweet potatoes,
cassava and groundnuts would increase as outlined in paras 6.06 and 6.07.
These increases would derive from the increase in offtake rates, weight
gains and lower mortality rates for livestock and from the use of better,
higher yielding seeds, more adequate tools and, to a lesser extent, better
soil preparation and farm management. Although the Project would create
income for producers, these benefits would not accrue to the Government
because the major investments are either for institution building, physical
infrastructure, or for raising the incomes of the rural poor who are not
usually taxable. However, the Government would benefit indirectly from the
potential reduction, however small, in meat imports, a better cooperative
movement organisation in Ituri which would reduce the need for more
Government intervention and better sector management. This means that
instead of about Z 3 - 4 million now required from the Government per year
in extension costs (about US$ .5 to .75 million) for the subregion, only
about Z 1 million (US$ .2 million) would be necessary (see table 4).
7.03     Beneficiaries.  At full development, about 7 500 low income
livestock producers and close to 120,000 low income crop farming families
would have benefited from Project activities. Income of beneficiaries has
been estimated for three types of farms: the first type is for livestock
producers only with an average herd of 30 head; the second type is for
agriculturalists only, with an average farm of 2.5 ha; the third type is
for those raising livestock and producing foodcrops. The changes in their
income is given below. The figures given represent the gross value of
production for the "without" case and gross value of production less
incremental expenditure such as for veterinary products, tools and seeds
for the "With Project" case.
Farmers' Income Change
(Gross value of output)
Without Project   With Project         Change        Change
Z         US$      Z         US$      Z      US$      in %
Farm Type I       7 250    1 300  12 000   2 200   4 750         900      69
Farm Type Il      2 400       435   3 300      600      900      165      38
Farm Type III    9 650    1 735  15 300   2 800   5 650   1 065           61
Tobacco and coffee growers totalling less than 4,000 would also benefit as
a result of the Project.  On the average, incomes for these two groups
would increase by an average of about US$ 200 and US$250 respectively at
full development.  The estimated relative poverty income level in rural
areas is estimated at US$43.0 per capita in Zaire.
B. Economic Analysis
7.04     Basic Assumptions.  The economic rate of return has been computed
based on the following assumptions: (a) the economic life of the Project is
taken to be 20 years; (b) all investments and incremental operating costs



- 46 -
have been taken into account including studies, training, technical
assistance, pilot activities, and physical contingencies; (c) incremental
production of crops, except for maize has been valued at farmgate prices
and that for coffee according to Bank projections in constant prices; (d)
because Zaire currently imports substantial quantities of maize and meat,
an import parity price has been used for the two commodities based on Bank
estimates for maize, and on border prices for meat, after adjusting for
marketing costs; and (e) foreign exchange has been shadow priced assuming a
premium factor of 50%. Based on the above assumptions, the overall Project
economic rate of return would be in the range of 20 to 40% with the most
likely estimate put at 30%. The separate rates calculated for the
livestock component and the foodcrop component are 36% and 17%
respectively.
7.05     Sensitivity analysis.  Projected rates of return were tested for
senstivity to changes in benefits, costs and delays in Project start. As a
measure, the crossover value was used as the value of the variable tested
for which the net present value (NPV), using a 15% discount rate, was
zero. The crossover value may be interpreted as the value of the variable
tested beyond which the economic rate of return would fall below 15%.  The
results are summarized below:
Summary of Economic Analysis
Crossover Values for 15%
Economic        % Change in   % Change in
Item                             rate of return    Benefits           Costs
Livestock Component                 36%                -50%    more than 50%
Agricultural Component              17%                -20%              +20%
Total Project                     30%                -50%    more than 50%
In addition, if the Project benefits are lagged by more than two years, the
net present value would still not fall below zero at 15%. This suggests
that the Project as a whole is not very sensitive to cost increases or
benefit decreases but that the agricultural component is relatively
sensitive to those two factors.
7.06     Risks.  There are no major technical risks for the Project.  The
Proposed livestock program is well known and has been tested under the
first Ituri Project. If the construction of dips is recommended following
the study (para 4.09) there would be some risk of creating a susceptible
cattle population which would be decimated if dipping broke down at a later
stage.  However, this risk is significant only if 100% of the cattle is
efficiently dipped. Under the Ituri conditions such a high coverage ratio
is not likely to be obtained and dipped cattle would continue to mix with
undipped cattle in communal pastures. Tick numbers would be reduced but
there would still be some to provide a continuing challenge.  In countries
with ecological conditions similar to those in Ituri, it has been observed
that a sizeable difference in tick burdens and mortality rates existed
between dipped and undipped cattle although they shared communal pastures.
The agricultural program is simple and its phasing is realistic. Yields
are within results achieved elsewhere in similar conditions. Project
management is well tested and competent. A serious risk would be



- 47 -
Goverament policy support in terms of adequate livestock price policies.
However, this risk would be reduced by the rehabilitation of the Bunia
Abattoir and the rehabilitation of this airstrip which would facilitate
meat expedition to Kinshasa and thus stimulate demand. Another serious
risk would be the general economic crisis prevailing in Zaire and the
consequent reduced availability of foreign exchange for the importation of
veterinary products to meet recurrent needs. ACOOPELI's new membership in
ANEZA makes it eligible to officially be allocated foreign exchange. It
will need to follow up very closely to insure first that it is allocated an
adequate quota and second that it actually receives this quota. Finally,
the risk of late arrival of deliveries because of the remoteness of the
Project area should not have any substantial impact because of the
experience already gained under the first Lturi Project.
Cost Recovery
7.07     Investment, Operation and Maintenance costs.  Under the first
Ituri Project beneficiaries have paid only for part of the investment,
operation and maintenance cost of dips and other infrastructure. The
difficulty to determine benefits associated with the technical package
offered under the first Ituri Project (para 3.10) can explain producers'
doubts and unwillingness to bear the entire cost of disease control
programs. However, under the proposed Project, the basic data study (para
4.09) is designed to fully demonstrate the benefits of tick and tickborne
disease treatments and should provide some evidence on the economic merits
of Project activities. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the
Government would recover full costs of disease control program by Project
Year 5. The cost recovery issue will be discussed at the mid-term review.
7.08     Input Costs.  All implements and  equipment for livestock and
agricultural activities would be sold at cost to ACOOPELI which would
subsequently sell them to PRODELS and producers with a small margin to
cover its overhead costs. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the
Government would recover the full costs of other agricultural inputs such
as seeds and fertilizers by project year 5.
Investment Analysis
7.09     Investments for the proposed Project would represent 67% of total
Project costs, broken down as follows: civil works 11%; vehicles,
machinery and equipment 16%; veterinary medicines and equipment 5%;
agricultural tools, seeds, fertilizers & pesticides 17%; and consultant
services 18%. Operating costs would represent 16% of total Project costs,
broken down as follows: local salaries and allowances 7%; operating and
maintenance costs; vehicle and equipment 8%; and civil works operations and
maintenance 1%; and other costs (studies, pilot activities, ..) would
represent the balance of 17%.   Investments specifically related to tick
and tickborne disease control, assuming that dips are constructed (the
highest cost alternative), would represent about 7% of total project costs,
a relatively small amount.
VIII - SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     During negotiations, agreements were obtained on the following
issues:



- 48 -
a) That the qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants financed by IDA would be submitted
to the Association for approval; qualifications of consultants
financed by other donors would be submitted to IDA for review
(paras 4.14, 4.17, and 5.09).
b) That the Government would regularly contribute its share of
Project costs (para 4.20).
c) That procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA would be followed
(para 4.21 - 4.22).
d) That the Project's accounts and statements of expenditures would
be regularly audited by auditors acceptable to the Association and
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para 4.24)
e) That BPI would be staffed at all times with qualified nationals in
key positions and with internationally recruited specialists as
appropriate (para 5.03).
f)  That BPI would establish a compensation plan to offer adequate
incentives to its staff (para 5.03).
g) That the Agreement to be established between BAT and BPI would be
submitted to IDA for approval (para 5.06).
h) That BPI would open a Bank account to deposit all receipts from
the sale of products to ACOOPELI and the PRODELS (para 5.09).
i) That disbursements of funds from this account would be subject to
IDA's approval (para. 5.09).
j) That Project expenditures would be made according to annual work
plans which would be submitted to IDA for review no later than
July 31 and for approval no later than October 31st of the year
preceding the one to which it applies (para 5.13).
k) That BPI would prepare a Project Completion Report at the end of
the Project Implementation (para (5.15).
1) That the Government would pursue its policy of price liberaliza-
tion, monitor the impact of this policy on agricultural produc-
tion, and exchange views periodically with the Association on this
matter (para 6.08).
m) That the preparation of the Project implementation mid-term review
would be done by BPI (para 5.15)
n)  That the Government would -make available to BPI during project
implementation and to ACOOPELI thereafter the funds, facilities,
equipment, and services necessary for road maintenance (para
5.11).
o) That the cost of tools and iLmplements for livestock, foodcrops and
industrial crops and the cost of other inputs for industrial crops
would be sold at least at cost to farmers and that the costs of



- 49 -
other inputs for the livestock disease control program and for
foodcrops would be fully recovered by project year 5 (para 7.07-
7.08).
8.02 Conditions of effectiveness would be
a)   The establishment of a mechanism satisfactory to IDA for the
transfer of the management of the rehabilitated Bunia
Abattoir from ONDE and ACOOPELI (para 5.21);
b)   That all conditions precedent to the disbursement of the CIDA
and FAC grants have been fulfilled (para 4.20).
8.03     IDA'S approval of the annual work program would be a condition of
disbursements against activities for the year to which it applies (para
5.13).
8.04     The program for the rehabilitation of the Bunia airstrip and
measures taken by the Governnent to ensure that BPI will continue to occupy
its present office facilities were discussed at negotiations.
8.05     Subject to the above agreements being reached and the outlined
conditions of effectiveness being met, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 12.3 million (US$13 million) to the
Government of Zaire on standard IDA terms.



- 50 -
Table 1
ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT/ITURI II PROJECT
PRJEWECT COST SUMMARY
(Z Million)          (US$ Million)      Z of
- -------------- ------------------Foreign  Z of Total
Loi:el Foreign Total  Local Foreign Tot8l Exchange Base Costs
A, LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
ANIMAL HEALTH                                         8,6    14.9   23,5   1.6        2.7   4.3      63.4        19.2
OTHER LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT                           :!3    11.3   13.6   0.4        2,0   2.5      82.8        11.1
Sub-Totai LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT                          10.9    26.2   37.1   2,0       4.8   6.8      70.5        30.3
B..AGRICULTURAL DEIVELOPMENT                              1.1    28,3   35.4   1.3       5.1   6.4      79.9        28.9
c. HUMAN HEALTH                                           0.8     3.B    4.6   0.1       0.7   0.8      82.3         3.8
D. PILOT ACTIVITIES, RESEARCH, STUDIES, TRAINING          1.4     3.8    5.2   0.3       0J7   1.0      72.6         4.3
E. CENTRAL PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT SERVICES    9.1    31.2   40.3   1.6           5.7   7.3      77.5        32,8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       29.4    93,3  122.7   5.3    17.0  22.3        76.0       100.0
Phusical Contingencies                                   2.9     9.3   12.3   0.5       1.7   2.2      76.0        10.0
Price Continsencies                                      8.5    22.9   31.4   1.5       4.2   5,7      72.9        25.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        40.B   125.5  166.3   7.3    22,9  30.2        75.4       135.6
Januaru 5, 1983 16:00



- 51 -
ZAIN                                         -Table  1 A
NORTH EAST AiK EUBLUIT7Ttt Il 0081ECT
84c.t br htPuvt Croen             t
(Z '0001
LIVESTDCK DEVkLOtT                          PILT      CENTRAL
ACTIVITIESO   PRCJECT                Pht"r al
OThER                         RESEARC,  MAGENENT                Co.tîi,xsres
ANIIL   LlVESTOK  A8RICULTURAL  hUNN   STUDIES-,  AD SVPORT                ---------
HESLTH  8EVELDPIIEhT DEVEI4EI4T  EALTH   TRAININ   SERVICES      total    7   A"oant
I. IIMST4E0T COSTS
A. CIVIL VDRS
OIPPIV8 TANKS (NEY A4D RENOVATED)                          5,545.1           -            _      _                            5,545.1 10.0   554.5
OFFICL',  USESS, STOES                                     4,312,0      3Z6.2         121.0       -          -           -   4,799,2 10.0   479.9
0THER CIVIL HOPS                                                 -       454.7      3.646.7      -           -           -   4,101.4 10,0   410.1
Vol-Total CIVIL tORK                                          95,7.1        B21.0      3,767.7      -           -           -   14,4450. 10.0  1,444,6
Ph-ssîal Contof -eoes                                        985.7        E2.1        376.0       -          -           -    1,444.6 0.0       0.0
Fr-e Contm,xces                                            2,368.7       100.6        310,2      -           -           -    3,779.5  9.1   252.7
SD-TotaI INCLUDIK8 CONTINBEPCIES                             13,211.5    1,003.6       4,454.7      -           -           -   18,669.8  9.1  1,697.3
Fo,,îo,, Echaooe                                          5,570.4       530.6      30,0.3        -          -           -   9,712.4 9.1   882.9
B. VEHICLES, I bChlNERY AND F9U0P1ENT
VEHICLES                                                   3,962.6    3.983.8       1,004.6  256.7           -     4,502,4  10.740.2 10.0  1,374.0
AChlINERY AND EOUIPMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION 8Y FOlE ACCOLNT         -           -            -      -           -    4,70.4   4,670,4 10.0   467.0
OTHER EOUIPENET le.. Office Eoîi,t.)                             -    2,341.9         372.1   11.2       985.6        78.4   7,789.2 10,0   375.9
SVb-Total 1EHICLESV  4AhlINERY AND EDUIPNENT                  3,962.6    6,325.8       1,376.8  297.9       985.6    9,251.2  22,199.8 10.0  2,220.0
Ph"fsîal Conte.cîes                                          396.3       632.6        137.7   29.8        98.6       925.1   2.220.0  0.0       0.0
Pri-e Cotîmsemcies                                           777.5    1,257.8         265.6   39.5       259.7    1,839.3   4,542.3  9.1   412,9
Sub-Total INCLUOIN3 CONTIN3NCIES                              5,136.3    8,316,1       1,783.0  367.2    1,343.8   12,015,6  28,962.0 9.1  2,632.9
Fortion Eocha6,e                                           5,136.3    8,268J7       1,592.7  367.2    1,343.8   12,015.6  20,724.4  9.1  2,611.3
C. VETERI0RY HEDICINES AND E1UIP1ENT                         5,500.3        19.0            -      -           -           -   5,519.4 10.0   551,9
PhOsîcal Contm*nries                                         550.0         1.9           -       -           -           -      551.9  0.0      0.0
Prie Costlne.îles                                         1,801.7         4.7                                                1,806.4  9.1   164.2
SBb-Total INCLUDINS CONTINENIES                              7.852.1        25.6           -       -           -           -   7,877.7  9.1   716.2
VDr,în EVrhanse                                            7,852.1        25.6           -       -           -           -   7,877.7  9.1   716.2
D. A5RICLLTURFL TOOLS , SEEDS , FERTILIZER , PESTICIDES             -       525.6    21,088.5       -           _           -  21,617.1 10.0 2,161.7
Phosiual Co.tin*e,s                                              -        52.9      2.108.8      -           -           -   2,161.7  0.0       0.0
Pri-e Contîioees                                                         200.6      5,901.2      -           -           -   6,101.8  9.1   554.7
SVb-Total IhCLUD3K8 COPTI86ECIES                                   -       782.1    29.098.6                               -   29,880.7  9.1  2,716.4
For-îtn Eocarl."                                                 -       70S7,    26,615.9       -           -           -   27,319.8  9.1  2.483.6
E. COKSLTNff SERVICES                                               -           -           -       -       985.6   19,609.6  20.675.2 10.0  2,067.5
Phssîcal Contintie,                                              -           -           -       -        98.6    1,969.0   2,067.5 0.0        0.0
Price Cootioos--i-                                                                                       259.7    3,595.1    3,854.8  9.1   350.4
So-Total 111811 lD  CONTINSENCIES                                   -           -           -       -     1,343.8   25,253.7  26,597.5 9.1  2,418.0
FoPrisn Erch-                                                                                          1.343.8   25,253.7  26,597.5  9.1  2,418.0
Total INST4ENT COSTS                                            19,320.0    7,694.4    26,232.9  297.9    1,971.2   28,940.8  84,457.2 10.0  8,445.7
Phosical Cantîoees                                            1,932.0       78.4       2,623.3   29.8       197.1    2,894.1   8,445.7  0.0       0.0
Proce îoet,nsrteî.s                                           4.947.9    1,663.6      6,480.0   39.5        519.3    5,434.4  19,084.7  9.1  1,735.0
Total INCLUOI8 COTINSENCIES                                     24,199.9   13,127,5    35,336.3  367.2    2,687.6   37,269.2  111,987.7  9.1 10.180.7
FPrison Exbhane.                                             18,562.0    9,528.8    31,816.9  367.2    2,687.6   37,269.2  100,231.7  9.1  9.112.0
Il. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES AND ALLOuANCES                             2,541.7       911.6      1,061.6      -           -     3,321.8   7,836.8 10.0   783.7
pb-sical Cînt1oaees                                         254.2        91.2        106.2      -           -       332.2      7P3.7  0.0     0.0
Pr,ie Ctong,msi                                             928.1       238.9       35Z.0       -           -    1,062.4   2,582.4 9.1   234.8
Sub-Total IC1UDIN8 CONTINOENCIES                            3,724.0    1,241.6       1,520.8      -           -    4,716.4  11,202.8  9.1  1,018.4
R. VEH7CLE SND EOUIPNENT V t O                               1,444.8    3,91C.4       1,212.3  443.5       492.8    1,918.0   9,430.8 10.0   943.1
F9,sieal ContLnîmçcies                                      144.5       391.9        121.2   44.4        49.3       111,8      943.1  0.0      0.0
P-îee Ccntaotars                                            344.6    1,287.1         374.7  164.9       129.8       616.2   2,917.5 9.1   265.2
SubT.Tota INCLUDIND C11 TINSENCIES                           1,933,9    5.598.5       1,708.2  652.8       671.9    2,726.0  13.291.4  9.1  1,208.3
Fcreisn Eochas                                            1,740.5    5,038.7       1,537.4  587.5       604.7    2,453.4  11,962.3  9.1  1,097.5
C. CIVIL MMRK O t                                             205.0      11.8            -       -           -           -      354.7 10.0    35.7
Possical Coetonoeriies                                       20.5        15.2           -       -           -           -       35.7  0.0     0.0
PrieCt eim                                                   757         49.9           - _120.5  9.1    11.4
S16-Total I1CLUDIK  CDOTIK8ERCIES                             301.1       2l6.8           -       -           -           -      517.9  9.1    47.1
Por-con Exebane                                             103.6       100.S            -      -           _           -      204.1  9.1    18.6
B. OBIER OPERSTIN  COSTS                                           -       918.4     61930.4 3,06.8    2,777.6      6,076.0  20,569.2 10.0  2,056.9
PO,sieal contonoeîies                                           -        91.8        693.0  386.7       277.8       607.6   2,056.9  0.0      0.0
Pri-e Cot.,,e,es                                                -       243.2      2,503.4 1,240.0      793.6    1,871.0   6,651.2  9.1   604.7
Sub-Total INCLUOII6 CONTI)IDECIES                                  -    1,253.5    10,126.9 5.493.5    3,840.9    8,554.6  29,277.4  9.1  2.661.6
FPrin Echa.e                                                    -       598.3      5,392.5 4,394,8    1.924.5       745.1  13,055.1  9.1  1,186.8
Totrl RECURRENT COSTS                                            4,191,5    5,901.2       9,204.4 4,310.3    3,270.4   11,315.8  380193.6 10.0  3.819,4
Plssical Conti fio                     *                        419.1       590.1       920.4  431.0        327.0    1,131.6   3,819.4  0.0       0.0
Prie. Continntoe fs                                           1,348.4    1,819.1      3,231.1 1,404.9       923.4    3,549.7  12,276.6 9.1  1,116.1
Total INLUD3NB CWOTI»OE441S                                     509.59,0    8.310.4    13,355.9 4,146.3    4,520,0 3     7, 97.0  54.289.5  9.1  4,935.4
Fortion Eocbahde                                              1.844.1    5,737.4       6,930.1 4,982.3    2,529.2    3,198.5  25.221.5  9.1  2,292.9
Total A3SELINE CD3TS                                             23,511.5   13,595.6    35,437.3 4,608.2    5,241.6   40.256.6  1221650.8 10.0 12,265.1
Phusical Cantirnsnoir                                          2,351.1    1,359,6      3,543.7  460.8        524.2    4,025.7  12,265.1  0.0       0.0
Proce Contiosoecwis                                            4,296.3    3,482.8       9,711.1 1,444.4    1,442,7   80,94.0  310361.3  9.1  2,851.0
Total FOJECT COSTS                                               322159.0   18.437.9    48.692.2 6,513,5    7.208.5   53,266.3  166,277.2  9.1 15.116.1
Fortien Eocba,h.                                              20,406.1    15.266.2    38,746.8 5,349.5    5,216.9   40,467.8  125,453.2  9.1 11,404.8
Jaaiars 5. 1983  16:00



-52-
us                                         ~~~~~~~~~~Table i E
mm7 1>00 Su EWNÙtIIIU  Il mm10
Priva 0o66.
lam  Coite                                  u live      Foazatn Lxchaniva
0ni.    Unit lest  ft, of Wntt. I   1903  94          1995          1996  1      lm  199E  99      Total     (U1Sf '0W)   Z       heoet
0.CIVIL MS
DIP9I#8 TMSO  (E5 MGD      OTU>M                             tu.        5.6-117.6          133        -        -  1,340,9  1,357.7  2A.04S    400.1    400.1    5,545.1        1,329.9  50.0    2,772.6
OFFICES, H0015  S710S                                        tO.      1.00840.64           255  2,150.4  2,230.9   409.9         -         -       -        -     4,799.2        95223  31,2    1,499,0
3710 CIVIL LMS                                               Nut.     0.896-225.2          442  2,362.5  16000,9    54.2    50.4        8.5      9.   8.ES    4,101.4           804.7  79,9    3,275.4
Stb-Total CIVIL  MUS                                                                               4.512.9  3,047.0  5,800.0  1,400.1  2,055.0   400.6   400.0   14,445.8         2.005.9  52.2    7.5460,
Ptrjiovs Cootirsmere                                                                             451.3   3M84.     100.5    140.9   205.5    40.9    40.9    1,444,6                -   52.2      75.6
Prove Contuieoein-    198.6   5>0.0   400.3   433,0   005.4   196.7   235.5   2,779.5                                                                                                - 50.8    1.411.9
Sut-Total INCL09180 CCUEIOOEOIES                                                                   5,162.0  0,742,4  2.305.8  1.991.9  3,065,9    640,1    604.9   19,669.9    35.059   52.0   9,712.4
Forvoso LavOrs                                                                                  2.826.2  2,556.1  1,102,0  1,002.9  1.52.0    129.5   340.2    9,712.4               -   0.0         0.0
E. 92I10E0, 00043ErY AU 0001P9E5T
VEHILES                                                      to.    14.561,100.9           599  6,991,4   799.6  1.463.8  2.854.9  1.502.6   157.9           -   12,740.2      2,979.5  100.0  13,740,2
006.I18RY MD0 E9019(00 FOR CU4STRUTION ET F001  OCCf<        Nos.        1.12-532           44        -        - 2,959.0   427.8   427.8   427.9    427.8   4,670.4            1.081.9  100.0   4,670.4
0710EWIP 819 (8les,. 0191v Eoiet.>                           to.      0.14-572.33          433    059.2   095.6   631.8   225.2   924,2    122.2             -    32.799.2      925.7  95.3   3.609.5
O.k-Total 5EHIC.ES. 00414100 4M0 E001P9E8T                                                         7,750.6  1.605.2  5,054.7  3,637.9  2,934.6    709.0   427.9  22.199.0         4.797.1   99,2   22.12011
Ph-vical Con.tinsur.ia                                                                       -    775.1    169.5   505.5   363.8   293.5    70.9    42.8   2.220.0                   -  99.2    2,202.0
Priva Cetinuovies                                                                                 341.0   223,4  1.121.1  1.119.6  1,150.2   341.3   246.6   4.542.3                 -   99.1    4.502,3
Sti-Total 1I4CL131N0 COIETIMI8ESC(                                                                 0866.6  2,077.1  6,601.3  5,120.4  4,379.2  1,121.2   717.2  28,962,0          4.787,1   99.2  20.724.4
Forets,, Eovhoae                                                                                8 ,827.0  2,033.3  6.634.3  5,063.6  4,225.2  1,121.2    717.2  28,724.4            -    0.0        0.0
C. 00E0E1008Y 4ED1CIE AN EMPE0 E19(T                            tu.       0.336-44.8        1,691    001.0   243.0   895.9   704.5  1.054.5  1,050.0   700.0   5.509.4            1.202.1  106.0    5,519.
Phwsical Cortinger.vies                                                                      -    00.1    24.3    89.6        70.4   105.4   105.0    70.0         551.9             - 10100       551.9
Priva Contiroenclies-                                                                              38.8    33.2    196.5    216.6   412.3   505.5   403.4    1,906.4                 - 110.0    1,006.0
Stb-Total INC1.00I08 C00IO8OIES                                                                    1,008.4    299.6  1,171.0    991.5  1.573.2  1.600.5  1.173.4   7.877.7       1,302.1  100.0   7.077.7
Foamis. Exchw.e                                                                              -1,008.4   299.   1,171,3   9M1.5  1,572.2  1.660.5  1.170.4   7.077.7                  -   0.0         0.0
D. 6GN1CttT0MAL TOtS . SM00  . FORTILIOER  PESTICIDES(          to.      0.010-29.12       35.,360  4.960.0  2.728.9  2.744.4  2.796.0  2.796.0  2.796.0  2,796.0  21,617.1      4.939.0   91.4  19,750.0
96-nival Cutitmiurces                                                                        -    496.0    272.9   274.4   279.6   279.6   279.6   279.0    2,161.7                  -  91.4    1,975.9
Prime Contios..cies                                                                               218.2   361.7   600.7   959.7  1.095.9  1.340.1  1,611.4    6.101.0               -   91.5    5,U.50.
Sut-Total 140CL00180 CONT1410C1(5                                                                  5,674.2  3.363.0  3.627.6  3.935.3  4.171.4  4.421.7  4.607.0  29,880.7        4,939.0   91.4  27.319.0
Forais. EoxOhSe                                                                                 5.156.4  3,M .4  3.322.1  3.602.8  3,818.9  4,040.1  4,291.0   22.309.8              -   0.0        0.0
E. CONGTMT SER910ES                                            Jéo.          160-560           57  4,792,45.029.8  5,029.0  5,029.0    806.4          -        - 20,675.2        4.396.2  100.0  20.675.2
Ptvoivaî Covtiosovies                                                                        -    479,2    502.9    502.9    502.9    00.6          -        -   2,067.5             -  100.0   2.067.5
Priva Cantaseotes                                                                                 210.4   666.6  1,115.4  1,546.3    316.1         -        -    3.054.8            -100.0   3.054.8
lob-Total 1I(100100 CONTINSENCIEO                                                                  1.471.1  6.199.2  6.647.1  7.078.0  1.203.1        -        -26.597.5         4,396.3  100.0  26,597.5
Forais. Loxfohge                                                                                5,471.1  6,199.2  6,647.1  7,079.0  1,293.1         -       - 26.597.5               -   0.0         0.0
Total I1C00I0540f COSYS                                                                              22,007.4 1.3,33.5 15.518.9 13,575.2  9.646.4  4.963.5  4.332.4   94.457.2    19,510.4  99.4  75,519.5
F9hesiva1 Coetinbeeiae                                                                             2.208.7  1.353.3  1.551.9  1.357.5   944.6   096.4    433.2   0.445.7               -  99.4    7,551.9
Prive Cotontinercies-  1,007.0  1,793.9  3.442.1  4,174.3  3,790.8  2,399.7  2.496.9  19.004.7                                                                                         - 89.9  17.160.3
Total 100.00100 C00IeOENCES                                                                          26.183.1 16,600.7 29,512.8 19,107.0 14,391.9  7,049.6  7.362.6  111,927.7    10.510.4  89.5  100,331.7
Forais,. Exv9hr.                                                                                - 22,299.7 14,167.6 18.977.1 07,740.8 12,450.5  7.150.3  6.529.8  100,231.7            -    0.0        0.0
I1. 9E000RE81 cooSS
A, LKM. 16A.8010  Ml M ULUMS                                 ao vair      2.8-17.92        1.136    732.9   991.6  1,155.6  1.250.4  1.318.1  1.190.0  1.190.0    7,036,0       1,951.7    0.0        0.0
96-istal Centioser.ie                                                                       -     73.3    99.2    115.6   125.8   131.8   119.0   009.0           783.7            -   0.0         0.0
Priva Continsoias                                                                           -     32.2    131.4   256.3   387.0   516.6   5729    005.9   2,592.4                  -     .           .0
O.k-Total 3(1.011E CcO<IOmEEIS                                                                      838.5  1.222.3  1.027.5  1.770.2  0,966.6  1,001.9  1,994.9   11,202.9      1,051.7   0.0         0.0
0. 05I00E 664D E8219105   O 1 9                               0W0 ka     0.112-3.36       11.592    970.5  1,270.1  1,643.4  1.651.4  1,630.4  1.122.0  0.122.0   9.430.0       2,196.9  90.0   8,407.8
Ph.esiaI Coetinsmins                                                                        -    97.0    127.0   044.3   162.1   165.1   112.2    112.2           94.1             -  99.0       048.8
Priva Co.tins.eias                                                                                42.7    160.3   364.5   507.0   647.3   540.2   046.7    2,917.5-   90.0    2,625.7
S.k-Total 1(C.00080 C00TIlEEKIES                                                                  1.110.2  1,565.4  2.172.2  2,324.4  2.462.9  1,774.4  1,800.9  13,291.4       2,196.9  90.0  11,962.3
Forais,, Eovhua                                                                                  999.2  1,400.9  1.955.0  2,991.9  2,217.5  1,597.0  1,692.0  01.962.3             -    0.0        0.0
C. CIVIL EUS O t 49                                                       0.112-5.6          379     16.8    16.8    53.2    00.4        95,3     36.4    49.8       356.7         95.0  39.3       140.3
Ph.iaiol Ceetioteovias                                                                             1.7      1.7      5.0      8.0      9.5      3.0      5.0       35.7-   39.3                    14.0
Prive Cotnftooa.ies                                                                                0.7      2.2    11.0    27.        37.4    17.5    20.7         125.5           -39.7          49.0
Stb-Total I(1.00180 COO01403E5                                                                       19.2    20.7    70.3    124.4    142.2    57.6    03.5           507.9         85.6  39.4      204.1
Forais. Exvlhavse-                                                                                 9.6    10.4    20.4    42.0    48.4    06.8    39.7            204.0            -    0.0         0.0
B. OTHIE 90000008  COTS                                                  0.329-79.4       71.953  0.075.7  2.991.5  3.198,9  3.380.4  3,223.6  2,999.6  2,999.0   20,569.2       0,039.2  44,3   9,117.0
Pinasivol Ceetirseovie                                                                      -    187.6   299.2   319.9   330,0   322.4   300.0   300.0    2,056.9                  - 44.3        910.0
Prive Coe.tirse,,ias                                                                        -     82.5   303.3   709.5  1,039.4  1.263.5  1,444.2  1,720.8   6,651.2               -45.5    3,025.6
Sub-TotalI 01(10018  C000180(IES                                                                  2,140.0  0.563.9  4,228.4  4.757.9  4.009.4  4.743.7  5.020.0   29.277.4       4,839.2  44.6  13.033.1
Parien. Eov.aea-   760.1  0,502.0  1.879.7  2.2200  2.236.2  2.063.3  2.293.0  130.05.1                                                                                            -    0.0         0.0
Total 81010008  0407                                                                                  3.595.9  5.170.0  6,051.1  6.378.0  6.200.5  5,040.0  5,361,4  3B,193.6       8,973.5  46.5  17.745.0
Firsival Contins.,,ies                                                                          -    339.6   017.0   605.1   637.9   628.8   534.0   536.1    3.819.4                  -  46.5    1.774.6
Prive Cutiolee.ies                                                                                   150.2   685.3  1.342.1  1.961.4  2.464.7  2,574.8  3.090,0  12.276.6-   46.4   5.701.1
Total 5(1.0918  C00NE0IES                                                                             4,110.7  6.372.3  7.998.4  8,977.9  9,382.0  8.457.6  8.997.0  54.289.5       8,973.5   46.5  25.220.5
Forais. Eov4amg                                                                                    1,769.9  2.921.3  3.861.1  4.350.7  0,502,1  3.797.0  4.025.5  25,221.5             -    0.3        0.0
Total &MINE CD8TS                                                                                     26.403.2 19,703.0 21,570.0 19.950.9 05,934.9 10,301.5  9,097.8  122.650.8    27.400.8  76.0  93,263.3
Ph,oivul Coetiraeri.ia-  2,648.3  1.970.3  2,157.0  1.995.4  1,593.5  1,031.2   969.4  12,263.1                                                                                          -  76.0   9.326.5
Prive Cntinaovies                                                                                   1.163.3  2,479.0  4.784,3  6.135.7  6.245.0  4,964.0  5.507.0  30.361.3              -   73.9  22.001.4
Total FREOCT TUb                                                                                      30.296.9 23.053.0 28.511.2 29.084.9 23.773.9 16,307.2 16,250.2  166,277.2    27,403.8  75.4  125,453.2
Forais.n Ehrieg- 25,069.6 17.008.9 22.738.2 22.095.5 06,960.5 10.945.2 10.355.3  025.455.32                                                                                                   0.0        0.0
Ja,sare 5. 1903 16100



- 53 -
IATH  E45T RtJU4 I                                                               Table    1   C
Tablt     M AMAL HE4LTH
DebilId Cost Table
Z '000)
Iuantzta                                                        bus Cests                             Phu. For.
Corh. Exch. Tax S,mari
Ubnt  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988 1989 Total  Unit Coot  1983    1984    1585    1986    1987    1988    198S    Total  Rate Com. Rate keot
1.AW2TAL CDSTS
A. CIVIL  MS
111 DIPPI T1S6                        NoTS                  8     8    14               30     117.6       -       -   940.8  940.8 1,6l4.4        -       -  3.528.0  0.1   0.5    0       DT
REO TED  DIPPIHS TMS                  No.        -    -    -    3    -    -   -           3       5.6       -       _       -    16.8       -               _     16.8  0.1   0.5    0       DT
SPRAY RACES                           do.        -    -    20   20   20  20  20   100    20.003             -       -   400.1  400,1   400.1  400.1  400.1  2.000.3  0.1   0.5    0          DT
YTU. DISPE16ARIES (40 02)            No.       20   16    3       -    -    -   -       39    35.84   714.8  573.4  107.5          -       -       -       - 1-397.8  0,1   0.3    0    OHS
QET. STDRS (40 d2)                    Nu.        3     1    -      -    -   -   -         4    41.44   124.3   41.4         -       -       -       _       -   165.8  0.1   0.3    0    O
OFFICES (30 e2)                      lN.         2    -    -       -         _   _       2      39.2   78.4        -       -       -       -       -       -    78.4  0.1   0.3    0    OH
RElEOE QET. DIISMRIES                 ND.        -    3      -     -    -   -    -        3      2.24       -     6.7       -       -       -       -       -      6.7  0.1   0.3    0    OHS
460 STAF HOU5ES (local mâtar:aîs)    No.        33   37    9       -    -    -   -       79      33.6 1,108.8 1,243.2  302.4        -       -       -       - 2,654.4  0.1   0.3    0    OHS
REM    E STAFF HOMSS                  No.        -    2    -            -               2      4.48       -     9.0       -       -       -       -       -      9.0   0.1  0-5    0      ORS
Sub-Totil CIVIL liFS                                                                                     2.028.3 1,873.8 1,750.8 1.357.7 2,046.5  400.1  400.1  9,857.1
8. VEHICLS
muRD TOP                              No.        6    3      -    6    3    -    -    18    l43.36   860.2  430.1           -  S60.2  430.1         -       - 2.580.5  0.1      10         VEN
IOTORCYCLE (125 cel                   ll.        4    -    10    4    -    -    -        l8     14.56    58.2       -   145.6   58.2        -       -       -   262.1   0.1     1   0    VEH
BYCICLE                               li.      250     -    -   250    -    -    -   500         2.24   560.0       -       -  560.0        -       -       -  1,120.0  0.1     1   0    YEN
1ub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                       1,478.4  430.1  145.6 1,478.4  430.1          -       - 3,962.6
C. V46 I)A1Y EWIPffHT MEl PlICIDES
. T. EeI1P0ltT FOR SECTOR /b          le.        3    -    -       -    -   -   -         3      44.8  134.4        -       -       -       -       -       -    134.4  0.1     1   0    VET
.ET. EWIFffltT FOR SECTI88/           l.        29     -    -      -    -    -    -      29      16.8  487.2        -       -       -       -       -      -    487.2  0.1      1   0      VET
0ET. EEUIPIEOIT FOR DISPE16ARY/      NIu.       20   16      3    -      -    -   -      39      4.4S    89.6   71,7   13.4         -       -      -       -    174.7  0.1      1   0    VET
S*Y  PP                                 .      500  500   500      -    -   -   -150            0.336   168.0  168.0  160.0         -       -      -       -    504.0  0.1      t   O    VET
UET. IEDICIIES/SUPPLIES /c             li        -     -   20   20   30  30  20    120             35       -       -   700.0  700.0 1.050.0 1,050.0  700.0  4.200.0  0.1       1   0    VET
,Total VETERINARY EQWIPENtT Mb  8081ClNES                                                                  879.2  239.7  881.4  700.0 1,050.0 1,050.0  700.0  5.500.3
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                         4,385.7 2,543.5 2.777.8 3,536.1 3-526.5 1.450.1 1,100,1 19320,.0
1 OPERATINS COSTS
A. CIVIL kS   O t N /d
DlPP11S TMS                           to.       -    -    -      -    -         16    24       1.68       -       -       -       -       -    13.4   2c.9    40.3  0.1   0.5    C       COt
UET. D8SPEtIARES                     NO.        -    -    20   363S    -   -    95              0.56       -       -    11.2   20.2  21.8          -       -    53.2  0.1  0.3   0    COH
STAFF KOLES (local uaterials)        Nu.        -    -    33   70   79    -   -    182          0.56       -       -    18.5   39,2   44.2         -       -   101.9  0.1   0.3    0    Cm
ET. STORES                           MD.        -    -      3    4    4    -    -       il      0.56       -       -     1.7    2.2    2.2         -      -      6.2  0.1  0.3   0        COlt
OFFICES                              Nu.        -    -    2       2    2    -   -        6      0.56       -       -     1.1    1.1      1.1       -       -      3.4  0.1   0.3    0    COit
Sub-Total CIVIL  KS O  I R /d                                                                                 -       -   32.5   62.7   69.4   13.4   26.9   205.0
D. U}HICLE1 O I Il
HARD TOP                            000 ka   100   175  175  175  175             -             1.68   168.0  294.0  294.0  294.0  294.0           -       - 1.344.0  0.1  0.9    O       vu1
RITUCiCI                            000 k      24    24   84   84  84   -    -   300    0.336            8.1     8.1   28.2  28.2   28.2           -       -   100.8  0.1  0.9   0        VO
Dib-Total 0011   01   H I                                                                                 176.1  302.1  322.2  322.2  322.2          -       - 1444.8
C. FIELD PEOSOiE   /e
DISFSEARY CRIEF                    un sat    -    12   19   27   27  27  27   139              5.376      -    64.5  102.1  145.2  145.2  145.2  145.2   747.3  0.1            0   0      SAL
CL1INC CNIEF                       eanm ee      3    3    3    3    3   3   3    21            6.944    20.8   20.8   20.8   20.8   20.8   20.8   20.8   145.8  0.1            O   O      SAL
DISPEltS  ARSSISTAIT                un War    -    24   41   50   50  50  50   265             4.816      -   115.6  197.5  240.8  240.8  240.8  240.8  1t,276.2  0.1          O   O      SAM.
SECRETARY                          an  war    4    4    4         4    4    4   4    28    5.936    23.7   23.7   23.7   23.7   23.7   23.7   23.7   166.2  0.1                0   0    SAL
ORIVR                              aun  ear     1    1    I    1    1   1   1            7    5.376      5.4     5.4     5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    37.6  0.1           10        54L
hiCOROPIST                          un   ear    5    5    5      5    5    5   5    35    4.816    24.1   24.1   24.1   24.1   24.1   24.1   24.1   168.6   0.1               o   o      s5
Sub-Total F2F10 PfRSOMaEL  /e                                                                             74.0  254.1  373.   460.0  460.0  460.0  460.0  2,541.7
Total OtRTIHM COSUS                                                                                           250.1  556.2  728.3  844.9  851.6  473.4  486.9  4,191.5
otal 8SELIIIE coTs                                                                                          4,636.0 3,099.7 3,506.2 4,381.0 4.378.2 1.923.5 1,586.9 3.511.5
lb  The ProJect Are  is diviWded  for pureos of veterinarav servien
inta 3 Sectof,. 6 Sections (2 pnr Sctor) and about 100 Disnsalries (15-20 nr Section.
'c Sre Table 101A for derivation of th,es luw sc  fiaure
'd lgintmna,c  beins tuo weers after ctruction.
le  Field Personel mu, all ,ersonnl stationed  utside of Projet Unit (SPI) headarters.
Sextaber 20, 1982  16:34



C~~~~~~~~~~- -.                                                          a                                                                           O                                                           .i!0
E . ) 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O                                                                                                                                                                                      I                      O                       i  U  i;L  
j | _ ~~~~~~,                                                      j                                                 _~                                                  -       -                        |                                             Fi|    - *Ô.|.N_°|Oj  
E0.           k        0  0-|   _|O    '0                                                                  H                                                                           0  NNN..I,,,,,,' ''I .I|| |00
I                 I 0t Ei M I  i X                                I                           I                              EE N I N I  NNN | .~~I~   II i                                                                                I       |||                     Il  
,   "   u  > . I  4 w Ô I ~~~~~~~~Lt.                                                                       NN                                                                                                           NNN.  *  I 
j~~~~~000    O-   0.J   0_-                                           .0      0                   I         O  !                aJ    s   <                       -   |   40|  1   |             |I         °      ..      10     I                 0  I NE  
O    O   F    .°   O   F    .°   F    F    ---   F   O   tl   t = -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  m o - a          J   I         J
,E                                                     0O                      0OOO~~'-  -O -0OOOOOO                                                                                                                 -000 -O
Ut,fiS                                      yySy00   Ii 0a.0Sg <.æ I -0O0-00000O



-         a     w                                                                                                                                             -  -  -  --   - -   -  -    -
o.a      .a.                                                          .                                                        ,.
i  à~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
|  3              ,__              ,              a,                 -                                     ''~~~~~~~~-~~i~                                                       H-e
l    F           ---              F             uu                 ,"",                                   F----              ---       ---          --
n                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
|     -         aa                                 .... _                              _     _       .uu.~.-    ..-.-...... . . - - - - -- - - - - -
t                                                     --               !            a          _    _                       .                 aa,,,,,  .-, ,,,,,,,_,,------
I~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                             a.~     a .,.'...a .' __"_   
j                   "~~ala|la               -             $  .   jtO                  a..c Q                       lO*i  -|__ct                                                  Y                         <
!                   li~~~o a        aIâ!    a.-.'-,       r        e  i  CO           ax | ao                      Il .   j .  |                                               .A.,.a--aA-N,~-    Il h         j                   j
~~~ ~Il au oi  a    a  t .-'- w                                     0 |    0              |, ta,                      . |.   ,                                                                                  |
!              IIQIIQ.wl 000                         O                     OC  ~        OC1                                    OOoOO1O  OOOOOCOoOoX    |     |e                                     Il Sl



- 56 -
7AIE                                                                  Table  1 F
MORTN EAST RMUAL  V OELT/ITURI II PROJECT
Table      AC8WELI
8etailed Csst Table
(Z '8000)
Owntits                                                   iase Costs                          Ps.  For.
-  ---              ------------------------------                    ------ Cont. Exch. Tax  Sumears
LUnit  19S3 1984 195 1986 1987 1988 1989 Total Unit Cost  1983    1984   1985   1986   1987    1988   1989  Total   Rate  Coap. Rate Rccount
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. CIVIL WS
FECIlG ON RRCNES                  ka       8    a    8    5    2    2    2    35       4.256    34.0   34.0   34.0   21.3      8.5    8.5    8.5   149.0   0.1   0.9    0      OUI
VET STRE (40 2>                  4n.        1    2    -     -     -     -     -  3     41.44    41.4  82.9       -       -       -      -      -   124.3  0.1   0.3    0       CHS
HOU1146 (9I IA)                  Nu.        -    2    -     -     -              2     90.64       -  161.3      -       -       -      -      -   161.3  0.1   0.5    0       ORS
STWOFFICE                        Mo.       -    1    -    --.64                                    -   80.6      -       -       -      -      -    30.6   0.1  0.3   0        O,
Sub-Total CIVIL (MS                                                                                75.5  358.8   34.0  21.3       8.5    8.5    8.5   515.2
B. VEHICLES, EWJIPtMT, SLtPFIES
BLLS                             Uo.        1    2 2 32              -    -    10       3.36     3.4    6.7    6.7  10.1       6.7      -      -    33.6   0.1      0    0     OVE
OFFIC  EDUIPKElT               lusu S       -    -    -    -    -                -              19.0      -      -       -       -      -      -    19.0  0.1   0.9    0       OVE
STATIONOlt                       NO.        1    -    -    I   -                 2    157.92   157.9      -      -  157.9        -      -      -   315.8   0.1      1    0     VEH
CATTLE TRUK                      No.        1    -              1                2    539.84  539.8       -      -       -   539.8      -      -1,079.7   0.1       1    0     VEN
DELIlVY TRMOK                    Nu.        1           -       I               2    52.32   572.3        -      -      -   592.3       -      -1,144.6   0.1       1   0      OVE
IMERAL StfPLE>E T                     sutt   -     -     -     -     -     -     -2.2    3.4    4.5    4.5                     4.5      -         -       19.0   0.1  1  0     PET
Sub-Total V£INLES, EUIPFT, SLWIES                                                               1,294.7   10.1   11.2  172.5 1,123.4       -      - 2,611.8
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                1,370.2  368.9   45.2  193.S 1,131.9    8.5    8.5 3,127.0
II. OPERATIIH COSTS
A. CIVIL  M 0S O l M /b
VET STORE                         o.       -         -    3    3    3    3    13       0.56       -      -    0.6    1.7      1.7    1.7    1.7     7.3   0.1  0.3   0        COt
HOUSIm\  (PJltlAI               Io.       -    -    -    2    2    2    2       8      1.12       -      -      -    2.2      2.2    2.2    2.2     9.0   0.1   0.3    0      cot
STOE/OFFICE                     No.        -        -     -    I   2    2      6      1.12       -      -      -    1.1      1.1    2.2    2.2     6.7   0.1   0.3    0      CON
Sub-Total CIVIL ( S 0 t H /b                                                                         -      -    0.6    S0O      5.0    6.2    6.2    23.0
B. VEtHCLE/EOUIPèMWT O t M
STATION0 mm                    000 ka    25   25   25   25   25   25   25   175        1.68    42.0  42.0   42.0  42.0    42.0   42.0   42.0  294.0   0.1   0.9    0           Ol
CATTLE TRmtX                   000 ta   30   30   30   30  30   30   30   210          3.36   100.8  100.8  100.0  100.8  100.8  100.8  1008.  705.6   0.1   0.9    0        Vûit
DELI'&Y TRUTCI                 000 ka    30   30   30   30   30   30   30   210        3.36   100.8  100.8  100.8  100.S   100.8  100.8  100.8  705.6   0.1   0.9    0        VOl
Sub-Total  EOICIE/MWIPMT 0 I 4t                                                                  243.6  243.6  243.6  243.6  243.6  243.6  243.6 1,705.2
C. FIELD PERSOINEL /c
RMCN tWGERS                   tuan sar    3    3    3    3    3    -    -    15       5.936    17.8   17.8   17.8   17.8    17.8       -      -    89.0   0.1      80 0       SL
HKEDERS/TRAIIERS              SmI ser   13   14   16   19   20    -    -    82        3.696    48.0   51.7   59.1   70,2    73.9       -      -   303.1   0.1     0    0      SAL
LABO"ERS                      ta  waer   13  13   13   13   13    -    -    65          2.8    36,4   36.4   36.4  36.4    36.4        -      -   182.0  0.1      0    0      SmA
Suob-Total FIELD PERSONNEL  lc                                                                   102.3  106.0  113.3  124.4   128.1       -      -   574.1
Total OPERATIMO COSTS                                                                                345.9  349.6  357.5  373.1   376.8  249.8  249.8 2,302.3
Total 8ASELIE COSTS                                                                                 1,716.1  718.5  402.8  566.8 1,508.6  258.3  258.3 5,429.3
7b  Maintenance betins 2 suers *fter construction.
/l  Field Personnel means all Personnel stationed outside of Prouect Unit headeuirters.
September 20, 1982 16:34



Table    MRICMTM DMWTabe   i 
Dwtail1.d Ccct Table
10 000
kiatitw                                                                     buc Cocts                                986   For.
_______ _______ _______ ______ _______ _______ ______ __                      --__ _______    - -  - -  -  C o t.    8,,eO.    Ta.   O ,o,N
unit     I91    1964   196    116   196    I91    1969  Total   Un,it Cost  1913    1964   1I6              1986    1967    1918    1919    Total   0.t.  Cm. Rite Occat
C6617M. COOTS
A. CIVIL  FMFS OU SM0  F6668  th
((66NE106TION   ELOCTRICZ7  0RI0     Im  f..                                                                               481.6                                                   -     481.6   0.1  0.6  0 O        0(
ON F666  LECT6ICM. 08E1066TI0N    1u   siai                                                                                 58.2                                                          582.2   0.1  0.65    O      ou6
F6CTOUY/S7668                           .2         200    200                                            400      0.896   129,2   179.2-    326.4   0.1   0.2    O                                                    ou6
HIMI66                                  R2          00   40                                              120      1.004    60.6    40,03                                                 121.0  0.1  0.20             (6(
0000OAT1OU m0                        Ouw M       oc                                                         -               19.         -        -    19.0        -36.1   0.1   0.2    O                              Km6
F108  91.67 IN 0SEO  F6C7OR0         huM  sc.                                                                            1,I53.2 1.032.2                              -                2,710.4   0.1   O.9    O       086
Su6-Total CIVIL fiS OUN1SE0 F6609  lb                                                                                       2,173,9 1,574.7         -    19.0        -3 -0767.7
I. 08I0L.8  (6N6 E1619686   le
PIC06600( TNuc.                                      4       -       -      4       -      -                     114.24   457.0         -        -   457,0        -        -       -     910.9 0.1        I    I      089
47OUC7CL0 (122 ccl                     Ue.            I      I       I      I       1      -                      14.56    14.6    14.6    14.6    14,6    14,6            -              72.8   0.1      I    O      680
BICYCLE                                ma.           4       -      -       4       -      -                       2.124     9.0        -        -     9,0        -        -       -      17.9   3.1      I    O      "EN4
SAR94ESS                               Nu.          10      10      1 0    10      10                     50       0.14      1.4      1.4     1,4      1.4      1.4        -       -       7.0   M.    0.4    O       39<
91.06                                  No.          10      20      30     30      30      -       -     120      0.95?      9.5    19.0    28.6  28.6    21.6             -       -     114.2 0.1        I    O      20
668R86                                Um.l                  10      1 2    13      12      -              60      1.344      6.7    13.4    20.2    20.2    20.2           -               0.6   0,1      I    0      01.
7668048                                U..           3       3      3       3       3      -       -      15      2.016      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0       -3 0.2   0,1                    I    0      m1.
0XE9                                   ma.          20      20     20      20      20      -       -     100        1.4    20.0    26.0    20,0    20.0    20.0            -       -     1 ,00,1          O    O       m9<
1u0-Tctal VEICLES 660 80019949   le                                                                                           232.2    82.5    908.7   564.6    98.7          -       -1,376,68
C. 7(6006S A066I070 FOR9606R800
4080 /6                                '00         100      50     50      20      30     20      56     400      29.12 2,912.0 1.456.0 1,426.0 1,42 6.0 1.456,0 1,456.0 1,456.0 11.646.0   0.1   0.9    O    709
6604878/e                               "O0         60      30     30      30      20     30      30     240      19,04 1,142.4   271.2   270.2   571.2   571.2   571.2   571.2  4,269.6   M.    0.9    I    T099
SICKL8/C                                t           20      10      I0     10      10     10      10      60      19.04   360.0   190.4   190.4   190.4   190.4   190.4   190.4  1,522.2   0.1   0.9    O    759P
P900916600E86S  I.                     Nu.         600    200    200    200    200    200    200   2,000          0.047    37,6       9.4     9.4      9.4      9.4     9.4      9.4      94.1   0.1   0.9    O    T0F9
9006140 066S/d                         MO.         "0    000    600    600   6N0    600    00   5.600             0.006     14,3    14.3    14.3    14.3    14.3    14.3    14.3    100.4   0.1   0.9    0    T6FP
911989  If                             No.          20      20     20      20      20     20      20      140     0.851    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    119.2   0.1   0.9    O    70F9
F0RTILIZ00 lc                         f.im.      1.500  1300  1.300  1.500  1.200  1,560  1, 500  10.500          0.202   302,4   302.4   302.4   302.4   302.4   302,4   302.4  2,116.8   0.1            1    O    7090
POOTICII48/9                          f.a..r    1,50 1.00  1, 200 1, 500  1200 1,500 lf     1,500  10.500         0.053    79.0    79.0    79.0    79.0    79,0    79.0    79.0    232.7   0.1            I    0    T099
FUAT 1006 0 TI6814   e                fi?"?,       soc    sc      500   590    200    500    500   3.500          0.104    52.1    22.1    22.1    52.1    52.1    52.1    52.1    344.6   0.             Il    O    0099
Sc.b-Tot.al 7089. AU1 I66P30S FOR F66080                                                                                    4,937.6 2,691.8 2,691.8 2,691.8 2,691.8 2,691.8 2,691.8 21,06.5
TotalCAITA176  dOSTS                                                                                                           7,643.7 4,349,0 2,790.S 0.272.2 2.790.5 2,691.8 2,691.8 26,232.9
Il. 0006716(000
A. SM8 9S6871.RINE
SE006C001S17Il1                     lumim      - -          -       -      -          -       --                     -      6.0    26.0    56.0    56.0    56.0          -        -    260.0   0.1   0.2    O        Mc
SEED PRO908ION                        tOc,        200    400    600    600    600    600    600   3.600          0.896   179.2   358.4   537.6   707.6   227.6   507,6   537.6  3.225.6   0.1   0.3    O            000
28809628800160                        Oo.           -    200    400    600    0,3    600    600   0000           1.0715       - U25.    430.0   645.1   642.1   642.1   642.I  3,020.6   0.1   0.             O      om
060-Total SM0  UUOtAC7I9Off                                                                                                  232,2   629,4 1,023.7 1,230.7 7,238,7 1,182.7 1.182.7  6,731.2
0. C80 I66R59VE89
Km"50  66007006                    plant 'M0       20    100    160    100    100    le0    10          620       0.28    I4.      20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    t82.0   0.1   0.2    O           WC
96900018                              Lis  t        2       2      2       2      2       2       2      14      1.232      2.2      2.5     2.5      2.2      2.5     2.5      2.5      17.2  0.1  0.9  0          028
O.6-Tot.l C66F0  II0P6900T                                                                                                    16.5    30.5    30.5    30,5    30.5    30.5    30.5    199.2
C. VM0LE0 & m0
P180 66 TMl                          000 ka       100    100    100    100    100    100    100         700       1.60   168.0   166.0   16R.0   168.0   166.0   168.0   168.0  1,176.0   0,1   0.9    O            660
40TORC70L0                           000 kt         à      12     18      le      16     16      Io     100      0.326      2.0     4.0      6,0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     06.3   0.1   0.9    O        089
Su60-Total 0814E00. O   M                                                                                                    170.0   172.0   174.0   174.    174.0   174.0   174.0  1.212.3
D. 9FI1.D 90018UL /i
S8806FF1C0RS                        MdcWear         2       3      4       4      4       4       4      25    10.12    20.4    30.6    40.8    40.8640.6    40.8    40.8    254.0 0.1                   2  0       sM.
FORM                      ~ ~~~~Md  Wear  il      16     21      21     21      21     21      132      5.376    59.1    66.0   112.9   112.9   112.9   112,9   112.9    709.6   0.1           I    O      SM.
P60I16  6FFIC06                     Md  c.ir        2       2      2       2      2       2       2      14      6.944    13.9    13.9    13.9    13.9    13.9    13.9    13.9          97.2   0.1       a    O     066.
Scb-Tctal F110 986000481  /6                                                                                                  93.4   130.5   167.6   167.6   167.6   167,6   167.6  1,061.6
Total W8RT166 (8070                                                                                                              515,1   962.4 1,38.7 1.610.8 1,610,6 1,554.8 1,254.8  9,20,44
Total MMINEl C80S                                                                                                               8,156. ,31.8       ,1.  4.686.  4,401   4,246.6 4,246,6 33,437.3
lb  Scids .il1 be P,cdcc,  at Ouia. acd 6f.,an 4    ro6 ,cse  at B,,za.
le  81,6,1.t is fo, ms  m, $Wg  fa,,.
/d  To b. supolie  tOc all farcers  regaff1.ss of crools) O~w.  00.e cbjecto, bo the esd of ooir S is to  4aw 900 of f..r.,  c50n0 ho,. M2   sinf .ad,etes and 101 00,0  -,ct..
le  To b. sw,1,d tOceoffe. f.,crs.  The 06.etio, b, th.. end et or 5 îs te hmo  20Z et f.,., 0s               0 vsi esth     lodls.
/f  To b.      Ie tc, o. Oc  ff,, farmrs.  00jetîow  is tg hmc  500 of eoffte nroductioe, ..ils60 wit1. 60,5. nsu.
/c  Tu be so,.lied Oc tob&vvo fa,uer.  The ob.tit6. bs c., 5 is tu hm.. 1000 of f4mm usios, fe,tilizer 400 ?,sticies.
lb  Tc bu swI.sdlo. Oc  f f.  farwer  for cmi,trwutiw, cf flues.
/I Field personnel wans a11 Personnel oct stationed at 9,o..ect Unit661 (SPI) ,odirtrs.
Se?teIb,, 20, 1982 16134



- 58 -
ZATPE                                                     Table  1 H
MItN EAST RUAL DEEL~P /ITURI II PROEtCT
Table 601. HL tEALTH
D taild Cost Table
(Z '000)
Omntits                                                           Base Costs                         Phs. FTr.
--                -         --------*----              -            -----------------------------   Cort. Exch. Tax  Summrs
unit    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   198    1989  Total  Unit Cost  1983  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  Total   Rate Co", Rate Accosat
1. CAPITAL CDSTS
A. UEICLES AND EWUIPHfi4T
NARDTOP                     la.         -      2      -      -      -                     2    143.36          286.7      -      -      -      -      -         7   O.i   I   O      UEH
REMRI0ERATOR                No.         -      1      -      -      -                     I      11.2      -   11.2       -      -      -      -           11.2  0.1      1   0      20
Su.-Total UEHCLES AND EWIPNEltT                                                                               -  297.9                                       297.9
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                 297.9                                       297.9
Il. OPERATIll COSTS
A. UEICLE a t h
AARD TOP                 000 k         -     24     48    48    48    48        48     264      1.68      - 40.3  0.6  80.6 80.6 80,  80.6  443.5  0.1   0.90                       VO
8. TREATEliT OF PATIENTS
PROJECT STAFF          lia.lsear     3t4   300    300    300    300   3»4    300   2t100       1.008  302.4  302.4  302.4  302.4  302.4  302.4  302.4 2P116,8   0.1   0.8    O      D3C
ACOELI tlElERS  /b   t,eatmnt 5,000  7,500 10,000 10,00  10.000 10,010 10000  U2,50            0.028  140.0  210.0  2S0.0  280.0  280.0  280.0  280.0 1.750.0  0.1   0.8    0       33C
Sub-Total TREArFfA  OF PATIEitS                                                                          442.4  512.4  582.4  SU.4  102.4  502.4  582.4 3,866.8
Total DPERAT:14 COSTS                                                                                        442.4  552.7  663.0  663.0  663,0  663.0  663,0 4,310.3
Total 8ASC.IE CtSTS                                                                                           442.4  850.6  663.0  663.0  663.0  663,0  663.0 4,600.2
/a Scc Table 5 for derivatioe of unit costs.
lb ACSOELI seb.rs are the livestock o'wtmrtfar,.rs of the Projct Area.
Se,te.ber 20, 1982 16:34



r'>                                                          i  o_o-
4~ ~~~~- I,   -o gi-o.
o          I
o-.                          ..r             Ii~i
.~, r                r            ilt                   -
»                                 ti4!                  ^S, I
r                  iil DI -? E AI t"? i    ~                I  ?-              -         c
'_i iri  ,            _r.          ire   r a.                ji-
I           ~iilji                                i    `   |t[   
!  I              r     ir     r   ,e ;,,D                  I
i  ~           i    jj i                          li    j r            
I  l  . 1 <,,  ,1 P4 c`r °   `    1    ,        Il
,   ~           ~ et rO  ei       Oeo  rJ        11         ru   _         }  
I                  ruI r. jj       .                                                                                         H  iSjX <t   ia
I                  ti-r1            c-11 e  I          ra o' I  o- c-           U
I   ,, X  il    I   O   *       ., *  ,  ,  ,             "r e c-,I
"~~~~~~~-                                         uz . . _" ,, _
I                                 oo;o                         °°                  ZI9
u°°a             -_               I!92o ~~r; 



a. 2j                              0000             00000000000000                                      0000 
n jj ~~~~~~ --- -                          --- - -- - ---                                      --o-- j8 
.0           jii                                               i                                     008    .i% !       rl     jjS 
ci1             0l1i j°°                                                                                           i!     i    if 
^Isi000 -'  '0 0 0,0 0 0~ ' i                                       o       ''''''!  r.  ooo    r!IIj, ! ,r    i
Is -,ID!                                                 S . . . . . .      !..,
-       r        O                           r   r                       .j - ------------
ffi      I ff~~il ii        ' '~~i I '                                                                                     i Szta_
!E | _ ,, ,,,,,,, S > 32 ' |~~~ r                                                                              ;   . !
r>                                      r                                              -ni-------------
s       - I   n                          r
I-il°  It  !Si-                                 I-,                                               :i-        I jj
i i ! ff X x x i t a j r,-fiir   I t                         
~~N'-                     r,r.-n-n,-,-0000000   ~~~~~~~~~~§r                                                 'i l-
O                 .211~~~~~~~~~~ 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Î



- 61 -
ZAIRE                                             Table        1  K
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOMIT/ITURI Il PROJECT
Table 821. KINS4ASA OFFICE
Detai'ed Cost Table
(Z '000)
Qwntit7                                            Base Costs                  PhN. For.
-Cont. Exch. Tax Sumaru
Unit  1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 Total Unit Cost 1983  1984 1985  1986  1987 1988 1989 Total Rate Cou . Rate kcount
i. CAPITAL COSTS
A. UMEICLES AnD EWUIPIDUT
SMLL PICK UP               No.       I              1                   2    106.4  106.4    -   -  106.4               -212.8  0.1        1   O    vE
EOUIPIINT WOffice, etc.)  lu  s      -   -            - -  -          -             11.2    -   -      -                  11.2  0.1      1   0      MW
Sub-Total VEHICLES ANID EQUIPHENT                                                       117.6    -    -  106.4    -   -   - 224.0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                        117.6    -   -  106.4    -   -   - 224.0
Il. OPERATING COSTS
A. FIELD PERSONDEL /b
MNAJER                  amn Yar   1    1   I   1   1   I   1    7    14.56   14.6 14.6 14.6  14.6 14.6 14.6 14.6  101.9  0.1              0   0    SAL
SECRETARY                an !seat   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   14    5.936   11.9 11.9 11.9  11.9 11.9 11.9 11.9  83.1  0.1              0    0    SAL
DRIVER                  san ear    1   1   I   1   1   1   1    7    5.376    5.4 5.4  5.4    5,4 5.4 5.4 5.4 37.6   0.1                  0   0    SAL
LAORER                  am Wnar    1   1   I   I   1   1   1    7    5.376    5.4 5.4  5.4    5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4  37.6  0.1                  0   0    SAL
Sub-Total FIELD PERSOIIOEL  lb                                                          37.2 37.2 37.2  37.2 37.2 37.2 37.2  260.3
Total OPERATIN6 COSTS                                                                       37.2 37.2 37.2  37.2 37.2 37.2 37.2  260.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                        154.8 37.2 37.2  143,6 37.2 37.2 37.2  484.3
lb  Field Personnel sans ail Personnel stationed outside of Projct Unit (<PI) Head.wrters.
eUpte.ber 20. 1982 16:34



- 62 -
ZAI1E
MIN EAST RURAL DE'EL&PLEMRT/ITURI Il PROJECT                                Table  I L.
Table 831. MOJEt UlIT (BPI) HEADtWRTES /a
hstailtl Cr    Table
Il '000)
Okatity                                                        Dase Coits                            P.
-_-_-_                              --            -----------       --------------------------Cont  For.   Gros;   Susse
thit  1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 rota! Unit Lost  9831   1984    1985    1986    18?    1988    1999    Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Acont
1. iFESnen  Ct5T
A. V4LES AND EOUIPFENT
STATIONMAGII                               A.4i      1    -    1    1    -    -    -      3    157.92   157.9        -   17.9   15.9         -       -        -    473.8   0.1     1         0     YEN
TI.S (fer vohicle uintee    unit)        lum sm    -    -    -    -                                       67.2               -       -                              67.2   o.1     1         O     D9
1*-Toal 80EICLES AND EOUJIPANT                                                                              225.1       -   17.9   17.9         -       -        -    541.0
S. oeN11TM8T SERVICES
WSITANTS-T9FE I /b                       un vear    4    4    4    4    -    -           16       420 1,680.0 1,688.0 1,680.0 168.           -       -       -  6,720.0   0.1      1         8      TA
EOULTANTS-TYPE Il/b                      uan sYr     5    5    5    5    -    -          20    281.96 1.444.8 1,444.B 1,444.8 1,444.8        -       -        -  5,779.2   0.1     I         O      TA
iKA ABATTOIR MANGER                      e n star   -    -           I 1    1             3       560        -       -   560.0   960.0    0.          -       -  1,680.0   0.1     1         O       A,
PILOT CREDIT OA4AGER                     uan sur           1    1    1   -                4       560   560.0  560.0  560.0   560.0          -                   2,240.0   0.1     1         0      TA
MLIEF Of 1IEICAL SERVIE                 in sear    I    I    1    -I                     4        168   168.0   168.0   168.0   168.0       -        -       -    672.0  0.1      I                T
CMSTULTIDN S5PERtJIS1RS                  san  eat   2    2    2    2    -   -                   1-4.8   369.6  369.6   369.6  369.6          -       -        -  1,478,4   0.l     1         D      r
TICX YECIALIST                            an Yet    I    I           -    -    -          2       560   560.0  568,0         -                                -  1,120.0   0.1     1         0      TA
1*-Totl CONSULTANT SERtIES                                                                               4,782.4 4,782.4 4.7824 4,782.4   560.0                 - 19,689.6
Total IMST1(T COSTS                                                                                          5,007.5 4,782.4 4,940,3 4,940.3  560.0         -       - 20,230.6
Il. UDIT  COSTS
A, EMT, SUPPLIES, INSURAKCE
Kil  Ftf OFFIC lS  sue                                                      -134.4   134.4   134.4   134.4  134.4   134.4   134.4    940.B   0.1                                 0         0     am
IT FOR NOUSES                           lum  s -224.0  224,0   224.0  224.0  224.0   224.0  224.0  1.568.0   0.1                                                                 o        o      MC
IYtIES (ircl. electricits)              lue suri                                                       229.6   229.6  229.6   229.6  229.6   229.6  229.6  1,607,2   0.1   0.3             0      mC
DUMICE                                  lu1  soa                                                       149.6   145.6   145.6  145.6  145.6   145.6  145.6  1,019.2   0.1          0        O      DOC
S*-Tot4l REMT, SUPPLIES, INSUANCE                                                                          733,6  731.6   733.6  733.6   733.6   733.6   733.6  5,135.2
3. YE0lES
STATII MON                               000 kt    25   25   50   90   50    -    -   200       1.68    42.0   42.0    84.0    84.0   94.0          -       -    336.0   0.1   0.9         0      O
c.    sEL /l
IIEFS OF SERQICESITN9TS                  n star        -  -   -    -   5    5    5    15       16.24       -       -        -       -    81.2    81.2    81.2   243.6   0.1       0        0      SM.
MIET  3IRECTOR                          am str   -    -    -    -   1    1    1    3           :17.92      -        -       -       -    17.9    17.9    17.9      53.8   0.1     0         ô     SAL
MStmANT COIEFS                          can  tar    2    2    2    2    -    -    -      8        14    28.0   28.0    28.0   28.0          -       -       -    112.0   8.1      o        0      SM.
SSTANT PROJECT DIRECTOR                 man stear    I    I    I    I   -    -    -      4     16.24    16.2   16,2    16.2   16.2          -       -        -     65.0   0.1     o        *      SdL
mISTmA     CNIEF OF ANIMAL NEALTs       man sear    1    I    1    I   -    -    -       4     15.12    15.1    15,1    1I.1   19.1         -       -       -      60.5   6.1     O        8      SM.
îtIEF OF AINmL sEALTO                   an sea              -    -    -    -   1    1    1  3  :16.24      -       -       -       -    16.2    16.2    16.2    48.7   0.1       O        o      SML
TUURPER                                 ma nna,    -    1    1    1    I    I 1          6    10.192       -    10.2   10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2        61.2   0.1     o        o      SAL
fEfRETARY                               un  tar    2    2    2    2    2    2    2    14       5.936    11.9    11.9    11.9   11.9    11.9    11.9    11.9        83.1  0.1      0         0     SAL
STUEIEPER                               ian sar    1    1    1    1    1    I    1       7     0.944     6.9     6.9      6.9     6.9     6.9     6.9     6.9      48.6   0.1     0        0      SML
SWOVISOR OF TRAINING                    tan 9ire    I    I    1    1    1    I    1      7    101,192    10.2    10.2    10.2   10.2   10.2    10.2    10.2        71.3   0.1     0        o      SAL
N1IVETR8LATORS/DESOINERS/DRAFTSMER tan twar    8   Il   Il   Il  Il  11   Il   74              5.264    42.1    57.9    57.9    57.9    s7,9    57.9   S7.?    389.5  0.1         O        O      SOL
MISTANr TOFOGRAPHER                     amn  ear    1    3    3    3    3    3    3    19      5,936      5.9    17.0    17.8    17.0   17.8    17.8    17.0    112.0   0.1    CI           O     SOL
9ISrlR  OF ADMI0NISTRATI0O NOCOTULI) san sear    I    1    I    I    I    I    1    7    12.096    12.1   12.1    12.1   12.1   12.1    12.1   12 1                B4.7  0.1      0        0      SAL
LER0 S                                  tan -unr    3    3    3    3    3    S    3   21         2.8     8.4      8.4     8.4     8.4     8.4     8.4      8.4     50.0   0.1     o        o      SAL
1*-Total FERSONNEL /c                                                                                     156.9  194.8   194.8   194.8  250,8   250.8  250,8  1,493.5
I. STAFF TRUIEL
WSSiIItS /d                             lui  su    -    _    _    _    _    _    _       _             134.4  134.4  134.4  134,4   124.4   134.4  134,4    ?40.H   0.1  0.05              O     UC
UCATIRNS /e                             luis  sua    -    -    -    -                                  224.0  224.0   224.8   24.0   274.0  224.0   224.2  1,568.0  0.1           0        0      SAL
1*-TToal STAFF TRAQEL                                                                                     358.4   358.4  35.4   35B.4  358.4   358.4  350.4  2;508.8
Total EECUNI GOSTS                                                                                           1,290.9 1.320.8 I,370,8 1,71.8 1.426.8  1.342.8 1,342.6  9,473,5
Total WNSINE COSTS                                                                                            6,290.4 6.111.2 6.311.1 6.311.1 1,90. H  142.H 1.342 H P704,1
/a  S.. Table S for dnrivation if muit cests.
/b  Thtso consoltants. to 'e nired inde, technical assistance contracts, vill till the follouins positioos
Feo.uct Director, Chie? of Ar-:a1 iiealth, CI,;f of Ani.al Prod:uction, Chief o? Extension and rrainins,
CRiaf of Vehicle 4aintnnnce.Oncnarîcol Unit, Chief of Finance and Adsinistration,
ChiD f of Construction Jnit, frrunomist, ACOOPELI  oanaseoent Adviser.
/c  Excludins Consultr,ts,
/d  Includes aission travel cests sf ail Zaiaois Perso,nel amd ail tons<stanî;
/e   ovenarnent on  Zaire resulations reousre ecrIosers to pas vacation travel allonctes to ail Zailris Personnel  Consultants vacation travel costs art thsa eucluded,
Jant,ara 5. 1983  15:59



- 63 -
ZAIRE                               Table   2
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Calendrier estimatif des décaissements
Cumulative Disbursements                                Décaissements cumulatifs en fin
at end of Quarter                                       en fin de trimestre
US$ '000
1982/83                                                 1982/83
March 31, 1983                            500           31 mars 1983
June  30,1983                             900           30 juin 1983
1983/84                                                 1983/84
September 30, 1983                     1 100            30 septembre 1983
December  31, 1983                      1 400           31 décembre 1983
March 31, 1984                          1 600           31 mars 1983
June 30, 1984                           1 800           30 juin 1984
1984/85                                                 1984/85
September 30, 1984                     2 000            30 septembre 1984
December 31, 1984                      2 200            31 décembre 1984
March 31, 1985                         2 600            31 mars 1985
June 30, 1985                          3 000            30 juin 1985
1985/86                                                 i985/86
September 30, 1985                     3 500            30 septembre 1985
December 31, 1085                      4 200            31 décembre 1985
March 31, 1986                         4 800            31 mars 1986
June 30, 1986                           5 000           30 juin 1986
1986/87                                                 1986/87
September 30, 1986                     5 200            30 septembre 1986
December 31, 1986                      6 800            31 décembre 1986
March 31, 1987                         7 200            31 mars 1987
June 30, 1987                          8 000            30 juin 1987
1987/88                                                 1987/88
September 30, 1987                     8 500            30 septembre 1987
December 31, 1987                      9 300            31 décembre 1986
March 31, 1988                         9 800            31 mars 1988
June 30, 1988                         10 300            30 juin 1988
1988/89                                                 1988/89
September 30, 1988                    10 700            30 septembre 1988
December 31, 1988                     il 000            31 décembre 1988
March 31, 1989                        11 200            31 mars 1989
June 30, 1989                         il 500            30 juin 1989
1989/90                                                 1989/90
September 30, 1989                    Il 700            30 septembre 1989
December 31, 1989                     12 000            31 décembre 1989
March 31, 1990                        12 200            31 mars 1990
June 30, 1990                         12 500            30 juin 1990
1990/91                                                 1990/91
September 30, 1990                    12 700            30 septembre 1990
December 31, 1990 1/                  13 000            31 décembre 1990 1/
1/ Credit Closing Date.                                 1/ Date de clôture du Crédit.



ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analyaia
(bn Z milon)
Year 1  Yr 2       Yr. 3   Yr 4  Yr 5  'Yr 6   Yr 7   Yr 8   Yr 9   Yr 10   Yr Il   Yr 12   Yr 13   Yr 14   Yr 15   Yr 16    Yr 17    Ir 18    Yr 19   Yr 20                                   tu1
-TOTAL PROJEOr
aenef ita                           -        6          10      14      33     40       48      63       69       73        76        85        93        103       112       118      126       133        138       144
Cosat                             (37)    (17)        (32)    (30)   (23)   (15)    (13)         (5)     (4)      (5)       (7)      (15)     (10)        (10)      (10)      (10)      (15)      (10>     (10)       (10)
N'et Benefits                     (37)    (11>        (22)    (16)    10       25       35       58      65       68        69        70        83         93       102       108       Ili       123       128       134        30.17
Il-LIVFSTOCX  COMPON4ENT
?,~~ne£it%  ~~-                     5          8       il     30      34      40       53       57       59       61        68         75         83        91        96      103       108       113       118
ro.tM                    ~~~~(24>   (B)       (25)    (22>   (16)    (9)       (7)      (4)      (3)     (4)       (6)      (12)       (S)        (7)       (7)       (8)      (12)       (8)       (8)       (B)
Nset Benefits                     (24)      (3)       (17)    (11)    14       25       33       50      54       55        55        56        67         76        84        88        91        100      105       110        36.03
Peefits                            -        1          2        3      3      6        8       10      12       14        15        17        18         20        21        22        23        25        25        25
.;et leaefits                     (13)      (8)         ()       5)      4)     -        2        9      il       13        14        14        16         17        18        20        20        23        23        23        17.38
1/  lAvEstock Exehange at 150%
L.vestock benefîta  50%  first 3 yeara of wihat they vould be if dipping started at Year 1.
Thi& is comapenaated by major increasea in Years 8. 9. 10 to each target.



-~~~~~~ ~~-   £S5   -
Table 4
°«1 ~ ~      ~       ~        ~      ~           t   ,e
t-
_~~~~~~ - N N
_~~~~~~~ -    N    t4
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                            t _ 
- ~ ~   ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     -              
b~~~~~~ r- _   Nz
z     o I                                                                              _     I
,_     _- s                                                                    t    _.   _
f    0                                                                  -         t    _    -
o    _
Z                YI              _N iti n                             -     I    I   O       NS
t-                        N                            t 4 
3 ~      ~~~               O    tO _      ,              O    _      I         I N    N 
-t   t~    ê             e     .          t' -       t     t t 
b          A       UN   0           _,   _      I    I   -t   -t
14       _                  «          {S                     «~~
VE                     r    b                                      b~~~
t CO          a  vD^ _        «         
.W ~ ~~ _              0u>-    O         -    t.    I  o
-4 
Q       t..,       t-   t-.                      _~ I.       I 
t   -~~        t'..
v  .t
d                S       
-<             t           t.          f   



ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Annual Cash Flow 1983-1987 for ACOOPELI* (in millions of constant 1983 Zaires)
Year 1      Year  2    Year  3       Year  4      Year  5    Year  6        Year  7      Year 8    Year 9    Year 10 - 20
1983        1984        1985          1986        1987        1988          1989         1990       1991       1992-2001
A.  INFLOWS (Z '000)
Sale of veterinary medicines
(including dipping fees) 1/              3.0           5.2         7.3          8.8          11.4         13.4         14.4        15         15             15
Sale of Agricultural tools & Inputsl/   5.7              3.1         3.1          3.1            3.1         3.1          3.1         3.1         3.1           3.1
Subscription Fees 7/                         .025         .025         -             -             -           -            -            -          -             -
TOTAL INFLOWS                             8.7          8.4        10.3         11.9           14.5        16.5         17.5        18.1       18.1           18.1
B.  OUTFLOWS (Z '000)
Purchase & distribution of veterinary
medicines, suipplies (including
acaricides) 2/                              2.6          4.5         6.3          7.7            9.9        11.6         13           13.5       13.5          13.5
Operation of cattle stations 4/.1                         .1          .1            .1            .1          .1            .1          .1         .1             .1
Purchase & Distribution of agricul-
tural tools and inputs 5/                   4.9          2.7         2.7          2.7            2.7         2.7          2.7          2.7        2.7           2.7
Other operating expenses
- Salaries 6/                                .1           .1          .1            .1            .1          .1            .1          .1         .1             .1
- Vehicle operation & maintenance 3/         .1           .1          .1            .1            .1          .1            .1          .1         .1             .1
- Buiilding operation and maintenance        .1           .1          .1            .1            .1          .1            .1          .1         .1
TOTAL OUTFLOWS                          7.9           7.6         9.4         10.8           13.0        14.7         16.1        16.6       16.6           !6.6
NET CASH FLOW                             .8           .8         1.0          1.1            1.5         1.8          1.4         1.5         1.5           1.5
1/  Equals cost of purchase + distribution +15%.  (Assumes that sll short-term credit granted by ACOOPELI will be repaid in the same year
in which it is granted.)  Includes holdover stocks from the Ituri Project for Year 1.  It also assumes recurrent drug needs will be
handled.
2/  Consiste of. (a) cost of medicines/supplies cif Bucia (per Cost Table 101) + (b) distribution cost (=50% x annual O&M cost of station
wagon + cattle truck)
3/  Excludes cost of distributing veterinary medicines i.e. consists of 50% of annual 0&M cost of station wagon + cattle truck, per
detailed cost table 401)
pD
4/  Consista of wages/salaries for ranch managers, herders, trainers and laborers.
5/  Consists of (A) coat of toole/inputs cif Bulnia (per detailed cost table 501) + (b) distribution costs within Ituri (=50% x annual O&M                                                   (D
cost of delivery truck)
Ln
6/  Cost of headquarters sjtaff: t.e. manager, assistent manager, supervisor of administration, secretary, 2 storekeepers, 2 drivers, 3
laborers (- salaries + mission travel + vacation allowance)
7/  To date, about 14,000 of the cattle owuiers in Ituri have joined a PRODEL (and thereby joined ACOOPELI).  They own an estimated 200,000
cattle. It is expected that they will have paid their subscription fees (totalling Z100,000 based on a rate of ZO.50/head of cattle)
by the end of 1982. In 1983 arud 1984 ACOOPELI will receive the subscription fees (totalling Z50,000 over 2 years) of tlhe remaining
4,000 cattle owners, who owui an estimated 100,000 cattle.



ZAIRE
NORTII EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Component /Year                     1983           1984           1985          1986           1987          1988          1989
Basic Data Study
Mid-Terin Review
Animal llealth
Animal Production                        __
Crop Development
Human llealtl_
Other Studies, Training,
Pilot Activities, Trials
Road and Bridge Maintenance
C3
t>



68 -
Table 7
ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT/ITURI II PROJECT
Meat Price Structure
Imports
at official  at parallel
Bunia   Goma   Lubumbashi       rate          rate
(Zaires per kg)
1. Livestock
Farmgate price       4.80    6.5        8.20
- Transport            .12
- Transport tax               0.2
- Market tax                  0.2
- Slaughter tax        .10    0.4
Effective live-
weight price       5.02    6.58
2. Carcass pricel/        10.46   14.62
Storage fees2/         0.36    4.50
Trader's margin         1.00    1.00
3. Carcass fob price
(Bunia and Goma)      11.82   20.12
4. Transport cost
to Kinshasa           6.00    4.00
5. Landed cost Kinshasa
and cif price for
imports               17.82   24.12    19.0            14.0          35.0
1/  Yield estimated at 48% for Bunia and 45% for Goma
2! Three days on the average at Z 0.128/day in Bunia and Z 1.50/day in
Goma.



- 69 -
Table 8
ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT/ITURI II PROJECT
Cattle Production Parameters
South                 Center              North
Without    With       Without   With    Without   With
Project  Project    Project  Project  Project  Project
Calving Rate           42%        45%         48%       52%       35%       38%
Calf Mortality         23%        16%         18%       13%       18%       13%
Weaning Rate           32%        38%         39%       45%       29%       33%
Adult Mortality         8%         6%          8%        6%         5%       4%
Total Mortality        11%         8%         10%        8%        7%         5.5%
Commercial Offtake    6%           8%          6%        8%        6%        8%
Herd Growth Rate        0          3%          2%        3%        3%        3%
Liveweights (kgs.)
Slaughter Animals  290          320         280       300       260       280
Calves    75          80          60        65        55        60
Heifers
(3-4 yr) 280         300         260       280       240       260
Milk Production:
Cows in Milk           32%        38%         39%       45%       29%       33%
Production per lactation
(lit.)          600        720          500      600        350      420
of which:
To Calf (lit.)       300        360         270       320       250       285
Surplus (lit.)       300        360         230       280       100       135
of which:
Home Consumption    30%   (+3% p.a.)         63%   (+3% p.a.)  80%  (+3% p.a.)
Sales                 70%    Balance         37%    Balance    20%   Balance



- 70 -                        ANNEX  1
page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Work Programs - Presentation and Contents
The Annual Work Program must be conceived as a performance and
planning document. As such, it will include a statement of the specific
objectives to be pursued for the coming year, a description by project
component of the activities to be undertaken in order to achieve those
objectives, a presentation of the resources (human, financial and physical)
required and a financing plan stating where the funds needed will come
from. It will consist of four basic parts:
1. A brief evaluation of the previous year's
performance and a discussion of how results
obtained are related to the new program;
2. A description of the program of activities,
including quantified implementation objectives,
output and project impact indicators where
appropriate. As an. indication, the following
topics would be covered:
A. Animal Health
1. Vaccination. campaigns, by disease:
- availability of vaccine;
- participation by farmers;
- role of ACOOPELI;
2. Animals to be dipped;
3. Deworming campaigns;
4.  Current level of ticks, tickborne diseases
along with the source of information;
5. Herd sizes.
B. Animal Production and Marketing
1. Animal Production
- livestock improvement, e.g. births,
deaths, castrations, culling, livestock
census;
- pasture improvement;
- range management - pasture demarcation
and tenure;
- commercialisation;
- ranches;
- support for ACOOPELI - e.g. distribution
of instruments and supplies;
- research studies.



- 71 -                      ANNEX  1
page 2 of 3
2. Marketing and commercialization:
- the fundamental problem: inadequate
demand for beef in the Ituri sub-region,
especially for beef produced in the
Central and Northern sectors;
- development of local markets;
- sales statistics;
- slaughter statistics;
- prices - including Goverament policy;
- marketing to urban centers outside Ituri.
C. Training and Extension
-   staff training plans with statements of
specific objectives;
-   radio broadcasts
-   brochures;
-   short courses;
-   Extension work in the field;
-   producers' association;
-   public relations;
-   anti-theft campaign;
-   work in the schools;
-   Ngabu Training Center.
D. Construction
1. Construction Progress by Sector:
- new buildings;
- repair work.
2. Tendering.
E. Mechanical Work
1. Repair of Vehicles and Generators.
2. Acquisition of new Vehicles and Equipment.
3. Maintenance of Stores.
F. Medical Activities
1. Number of Consultations at Dispensary.
G. Administration and Finance
1. Personnel:
- expatriates;
- local personnel (professional/technical);
- other local staff - including Government personnel
policies;
- remuneration - incentives.
2. Accounting.



- 72 -
ANNEX  1
page 3 of 3
3. Vital Supplies:
- fuel;
- foreign exchange
- information/correspondence.
H.  Crop Development
-   objectives for the coming year;
-   improved seed production;
-   import of inputs;
-   distribution of inputs;
-   number of farmers to be reached;
-   status of yields and areas planted.
I. Studies, Trials, Pilot Activities
-   objectives and discription of studies,
trials and pilot activities proposed for
the year.
3.        Detailed investment and operating budgets in the form of an
annual budget that will include:
a) the proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on civil works,
vehicle and equipment) for all project components;
b) the proposed expenditures on salaries, materials, fuel,
repairs and maintenance;
c) detailed financial projection for the year under
consideration, including an estimate of the financing
requirements under the line of credit by categories and of
Zaire Government counterpart funds.
4.        Procurement plans.



ZAtRt -      NHt?RCAORICULTURE  ORCANIZIAT!ON
b<_NISTER         Sec(etAly.                               erzAC    tete! CDh
- ftâtii Secretary |                                    rStte secret.Y
JPural DevalOp.aQt        20 Projeta                      i. rlcultur_         -   34 ?r@*ectS
ilI                                             I                          I                                         I     
aurel             Purcl           Pural            Equlyc        WDIvLito>         Stu5 ie. an4      MIAaI  iIalclh     Crop          A4miotauatrette   lcgnal
lInita.erlai      Yrouot1oa         tconoaIc&    rolyvalant         Utnque"           ABriculturel    end Pr'oduction    Produit.&sa       Divisloa         Agrtculturel
rO I 1cy                                                             Orta n I La *  ute 
- ^pi\      -b~COQ*tbtive   -studio                            - tsh^âc 
- Statiagic       Mic A 4l.I Heeltt                - Personnel  S        egioc
- Conecruccl4u  - txccnetoa *cm i   Asrlculnural - mncci-           -Y'loIo             65 Staff         (< otficte)
au tURal         CaaItaOCa tu   Cre6dt            Dtociplin&ry                                        MIMAI Prc-
"oJa             Farara                                 te*e                        - Training        tion                               (Âccouattag          |
- Trada                                               anJ In(or-       (3 otfiea>)                       aod Ptnaoclal
- Uatcr          -Socl                            - TraSning                            -c oIl- t1              Faéd                       Cootrol)           »Un*
lroeocio                        *and Courue                          150 A - p
- JgrIcu1ltrA                                                                           5L&fg
S1a.a-LuattOso                                  - ÀccivIcIle                                                                                              Loccl  g
- rroaraming
- ?roject                            and Scudios
Supervialoa
- Training
Unit
T«cXitc4l salotances IAO for Agricultural Statlaticaj USAID for fiStaatict
- Secrocariat                      tcom .ach *c precenti  2 French expert, for trainlag *nS intonuation.  3 techotcal
aagltantm tao *tudlns And planloag (<DPA + 2 leltiana)i *xp.ct 4 otv &aaiotents
waidcrt USID project& 4 Lsctnîcàl Lssionto Sa in a=Xc1 hicbi  DlvlaIco; 1
tecLaic&l &cciatnta la Ma4 LQiatratioo Division.
Tb. Sacrecarîlt bas 3 tgclwcati caaiataats. 2 agiculturil .nStinreê, pSlus
on. soctologfsc. ta 44dition to a "credit ccli"  .upporte4 by rio aDd
aeporctlà dir.ctly bo too Staco Sacrctcry.
il   This  is  the  old  chart,  since  the new  one has  not been  published  by  the  Coverxment



ZAIRE
NORTHEA3T RURAL DEVELOPMENT/ITURI Il PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL NORDEST/ITURI Il
Organizational Charl et tho ProjIct Unit
Organigramme du Bireau du Projet
| IDIECTOK OF VETEFIt ilY SEI5VICEEi
DlIRECTEUR SERVICES VlTSHINAhAES
f KNNHIASA                                  >nC>JçGl MIIAGEIA/                          SURs nEGOGNAL ArIRICULTURAL
j  LIAISOfI OFFICEI                    OP~~~~13itiEcirut uI UpçliOJT y              SERVICE~S!SERV îCi$ A'-qIlCOLES
bUREAU DE LIAISON KlhSHASA [lOU_S REGIONAUX
|     HiALTH  SECTIOfU      __  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _
Abmeée!tYf%AT.ON AND  YRAiNING ^ND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~cOSTUCIO
FINANc %IANGEA,'   EXTENSION MIANAGEMi           ANIMAL REALTH              ANIMAI. PftIOOUCTION     AGRICULTURAL SEAVICE3          CHIEF UEO"ANîCi           MA'N>OTR.OCTIOA
DIRECTEUR ADMIIrIAidLn.0 DIILc!LUII                     MANAGEF410iRECIERMNUI:IErIEMREANAGERIDIRCCTEuRjCE MCNCE                                                        ktX.A'gI5ltP.ITJUN
CCiFATiPN El               SANTE A_IMALi            PIIOOUCTI'I!à ANIMAL£       SERVICES AGRICOLCS
TOTOIEA              NO^AIIU
TRIAIPI1N CCtNERi    liRAINING CENTRE/
CENiTRE             CENTIIE                                  SEEDfROOUClION
DE                  DCeETnltlt5                                                _______
0EbATO                                                       CtNTEICRSCNIRCSJ
fORMATION           FORMAT ION                                   StMENCIEPS
DE                  DE 
TOYO&A               NOA8U                              L 
SoultiERN SEÇTOffI      CENTRAL SECTORI          NORITeIERR ITECIOR!
LEclEuR SLD           $fCTEUR CENTR6E           SECTEtjR NOono
1"t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 1__ I  l L 



[BRD 16239
_,0  ~  3D°                                                                       Orà                       M-rch 1982
Z AIRE
NORTH EAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT/
ITURI Il PROJECT                                                                     SUDAN
*      Fot omneg ClPs                                                        (~                                               ./
*       D,p to be B.                                                         \         \
A      Morkors                                                                                           _j
O      Acoopeh Liv0stock ord Feed Forms                                             ,Dku
Mox,roun Cetr[e Densar> Areos                                                '           
Cr0p Growing Areos                                      ~_v 
Aroo.oe Coffree                                                              
Co-ro                                                                                                   Ar-
Mouor Rotoda                                                                            a s°
Rovrrs                                                                                   Mcdo,lV wq   | /
Z. So - regNodol Heedqoor'er,
O      Zone -reodqjerters                                         fiZ\*TNe
O      Towns
one  ondpr os             
`    Suboregonol Bosroorios              -y         >                             `s                                 
F~»    egoano  Boundeory          ~                                                                                                                       nn      '
-        Iorornosoool Bounoories                              
O IOrE/FRS
tILES C         r0         20          1C
y   <v_-2+  X'a0''vC  y
R o- 5d,' Soh'o-o
Oror ~~                           ~UGND
/ RprA    r<'* BO                     elmie     S    AHIK OT
\~~~~~~~~1                                                                                     1 HAGI Slbk°  ,1'   `    
<                                  AkwT6<io BdoQ ~ t Ocs qndro               9     /     "
ORr,a/   KoroQoor
r/ ~    ~~~~~  Nfgi                         B S d-ço -        Ni .»^                                       >ç           
/  CENORAL AFR[CAN R  EPU BLC             S 2IEDOAN
E <9vr   t       ~        ~~~ Kossonua  A                           Bogor   5,PSnKtoa                                          <             
/   CAMEROON~
"E,,                             6rt1  wffehttluslvelyfo~~~~~~~~~91                                            r   r  )
,<                              >-.  ; <-        j                                                      »- s<   .dM^\       AN
REPUB LI OF tAIRE               /0À   00
-y ple ,y  Koh
The deorntro  od-d 50/e
Word Bock 300,so at/ricse- ce/
cs,      3p'                                       -h~~~~~~~rcooOooec 00bood-oe                             ZAMBIO 






____ _____,_,_,._____,_._.                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 16240
5--   g ; ,"_,,   248   'j1rS,t`"SN «   2   { r,. 36's      23°                                        33                                         17'              MARCHi 1982
C  E  N  T  R  A  L           AFR  I C  AN,                - aR  E P U  B  L-..........................   C   ,   tJ 
r''''~                                 , g  r + P,  f - . "  _.    *=                                                                    Z AIRE
80 ,vs- t--a003004",;°;H.,.4                                   ^        1-      <       `m2'-' S            U         D         A          NNORTH     EAST
Àf>  <   Adomo0==> i-  -» =M,   @ 2  > g    DgruA      WL  y;>'" '   Kr  Jt >                                RURAL DEVELOPMENT/
\,5g,   ,L  ==~\ ; oDîngba  - 4 k.          f r;<  1<>] rITURI I  PROJECT
e>/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  CAB                                                                                                   A      M2fç  NT oNuL" -Co .an1 eRAsuoiGngr Cuornter
2 ` <~~~~~-. <-                                                                                                                                       PAR                      ='                           Rno ,qeds c f Genelt  ,=*t>sL04  Importance °
.!  '   ;  t   <   f Mrlengy» $t f3 <tAm: __t 1   n     '    u     ' s Nîangor$  fPfS trNATIONA  "Q}                              lrnporr
r0,»        or"' '-n,--.   ,                   f4d8    Oi4b:9esa                                  .,r"""'f  OU393P g  Jf  pjle 4  p  dir«S"w vA                                         R       f LI H  ,t-
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae                                      h                  \                  3X='àwL                                                 ._                                 Wk S .i<v>   /"    f    t,,- .  _ , t  _, n0;airpnlEoudrte
~~: = :~' -«rtÇ   ,                 ^          - *: <     0     Bef,s  _                         r        Tap                 K                                    t/                    Zzt0 $-  M-o ReonIvEudrets
Bau,   i     "~~~3-. p ,               '~®                                                                  Rag -,n
-,     ,       m o       >>      01; flv.S,                 ru ç          6 N X  E;;IO Wf      `` ,;,               ^  <    !LX T,tule   Mk  R-P g a  r                                R.A-D
A   (J   T   -   çR' 8W-S    Rr       E           <          E ] G    I ^O   iN                        ,  DuquJ              /                         N                   i-|17~  (D  S~
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'> %$C   =o AP.ngÙ I -v                                                                     6    2/ t{à/ f   /                                ©l suN reioo Ieduat
T,.                                                           l ~         ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~ Mu                                   - - - -            -  BOLndOtIe
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Akei
J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~J.'
,_( X Bokere » , _,.>< /Lia ,. r S s- dy. / / ~~~~~ ` » .. D, /\kBLuR, S , +u,, ,4, ILOMfTERS ûK 7M0 40S 060o8ùc100a 12011 i4,  rû
X   tOYohumY   }/   A    S    F   T  Â / X m   .                                     ambasa I        H             ; r      C               MILES 0    20    4      60    E0   100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIES  Q  ~  ~  80 10
|         a              \~1  -     Loda      o Buf    9O                                               E,l a  -=                       Mungbereti   i                                              -\.   Su  regcnatBojndorren=
t 0 1 0 0u ,                                     E.                         >                                                                          ti9+ N < \ "_ 5>r <'  \   '\__ ICAM \ T EAL EALFRIN 1 ltA  N \ETHIOPIA
y                                                      t-                    7     amE,'     ;          r     etm>                     ,- 3 S>~< at ( .k.l.  HJ
g Lt R S i < >> ~~~~~~~~~~THE  MAIKO t,,FNf4RS]ihatS
Brjunau' 9       1\,;pa l  J>  iL                                                                                 uu   , '    L.   UGANtDA-W  $~\  *)'    3i                            0' 
-- __ ; 24<t                                  X                                                                                                                 22 ° r  '   D2ugu   $t       - -    3                    ; S  r AL,,  MNA 
Ub          r'-'-d ~                                    RNZAGIN)0A
TI       >                          1        !     PL '   M40
Nakere0          tBia                                 ;~,y-~                                                             4Bunîo R
/~'~~                                                     te                                        §R2'   K.0M0E35020  4  NO  2 UGA12
A,"" 4-                                                          "                                       I                    _______________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- '  f                                                ?'~~~                Mambasa                              , '  ,              MILTOS     30   30    NO    80   /00~~1 
O  '/-/4t/I-Z4/Pf                              "   - EO<WO33KAS                         j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 
~~~~~~~~~;Îlllu~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hopahrtoîaeb3,eeUe3>o3n(>îy&"
ett3n,aada>'t33'',e'333at3't3''I  "''tot     OAedeeo",'eod
-  f                               33N..r"'f' ~i.R            bdoe,±3,oe,uaA3mn',t3ee~'pIr et K3eeMote'"aS,kei3



