0000 c E N TS e CREDIT NUMER 1325 zM
Development Credit Agreement
(Northeast Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1325 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            L                , 1983, between
REPUBLIC  OF   ZAIRE  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)  and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Canadian
International Development Agency (hereinafter called CIDA) a
grant (hereinafter called the CIPA Grant) in an amount equivalent
to about ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the CIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and CIDA;
(C) the.Borrower intends to contract from the French Repub-
lic a grant (hereinafter called the French Grant) in an amount of
about twenty million French Francs (FF 20,000,000) to assist in
financing technical assistance for the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
French Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the French Republic; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein  set  forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 30, 1982 and
December 10, 1982 between the Borrower and the Association.
(b) "1977 Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement dated August 2, 1977 between the Borrower and the
Association (Credit No. 697-ZR).
(c) "Ituri Livestock Development Project" means the project
described in Schedule 2 to the 1977 Credit Agreement.
(d) "BPI" means the Bureau du Projet Ituri referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of the 1977 Credit Agreement.
(e) "BAT" means the British American Tobacco Company, a
commercial company operating in the Project Area.
(f) "ONDE" means the Office National pour le D&veloppement
de l'Elevage, the national livestock development authority of the
Borrower, an autonomous agency organized and operating under
Ordonnance-loi No. 73-029 of August 30, 1973.
(g) "Project Area" means the administrative zones of Irumu,
Djugu, Mahagi and Aru of the Ituri sub-region of Haut-Zaire, an
area of about 29,000 km2.
(h) "PRODEL" means any Promotion et Defense de 'Elevage
cooperative society organized or which may be organized among
livestock producers in the Project Area.
(i) "ACOOPELI" means    the  Association  des  Coop&ratives
d'Eleveurs de l'Ituri, a cooperative union organized to represent
all the PRODELs of the Project Area.
(j) "Annual Work Program" means the programs, including the
budgets, as prepared by BPI and approved by the Association
pursuant to Section 3.08 of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(k) "Compte sp6cial" means the account to be opened and
operated in accordance with Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth    or  referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-4-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1993, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2032, each installmerit to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.                                                    9
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall carry out the Pro-
ject, through its department responsible for agriculture, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative, technical and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds (including
foreign exchange), facilities, services and other resources


﻿-5-
(including qualified and experienced BPI personnel in sufficient
numbers) required for the purpose; and (ii) for purposes of the
provision of funds to BPI, the Borrower shall make its contribu-
tion to the budget of BPI in quarterly installments to be made no
later than the last day of the first month of each calendar quar-
ter, unless the Association shall otherwise agree.
(b) (i) The Borrower shall ensure that BPI has overall
responsibility for execution of the Project and that BPI shall be
organized and shall operate as provided in Section 3.01 (c) of
the 1977 Credit Agreement; and (ii) without limitation to the
foregoing the Borrower shall maintain in operation the compensa-
tion plan established for BPI staff under the Ituri Livestock
Development Project to offer adequate work incentives to such
staff.
(c) The Bcrower shall, until the completion of the Proj-
ect, maintain the Project Policy and Coordinating Committee,
which shall be organized and shall operate as provided in Section
3.01 (d) of the 1977 Credit Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall maintain in Ituri, until completion
of the Project, the Regional Consultative Committee which shall
be organized and shall operate as provided in Section 3.01 (e) of
the 1977 Credit Agreement and which shall include a representa-
tive of ACOOPELI.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall, as and when
needed, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
(b) The   Borrower  shall  cause all goods and     services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and p-ocurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association, through BPI, may publish a descrip-
tion thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) No later than December 31, 1983 or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Ituri Livestock Development Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perform-
ance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations under the 1977 Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit No. 697-ZR.
(e) the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion: (i) no later than December 31, 1986, an interim report; and


﻿-7-
(ii) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event
not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
the Association, a completion report. Both reports shall be of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, and shall account for the execution and initial opera-
tion of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1983, (or
such other date as the Association may agree), enter into     an
agreement with BAT wherein shall be defined, for purposes of
Part B of the Project, the terms of the cooperation between BPI
and BAT and the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to be made available to BAT for tobacco growing farmers of the
Project Area; such agreement shall be satisfactory        to the
Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, no later than Septem-
ber 30, 1983, (or such other date as the Association may agree):
(i) open a compte sp&cial on behalf of BPI in a bank acceptable
to the Association into which shall be deposited all proceeds
from the sale to ACOOPELI and the PRODELs of veterinary products
and agricultural inputs under Parts A and B of the Project; and
(ii) establish a committee comprising of the accounting and
finance manager and another staff member of BPI and the president
(or his representative) and the management specialist of
ACOOPELI; it being specified that said committee shall review
credit applications made to BPI in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that proceeds deposited in the compte
special are used exclusively for the operation of the pilot
credit scheme under Part E of the Project.


﻿-8-
(c) Before any withdrawal is made from the compte special,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval
credit applications which fulfill the criteria referred to in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) (i) by July 31 of each
year, prepare and submit to the Association for its review and
comment the Annual Work Program of BPI for the next calendar year
together with the budget proposal pertaining thereto (such
program and budget to be prepared according to the provisions
set out in Schedule 4 hereto,.as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association); and (ii) by October 31 of said year, prepare and
submit to the Association for its approval the final version of
said work program and budget; and (b) to that end, secure
ACOOPELI's assistance.
Section 3.09. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that sales in the Project Area of: (i) all
equipment and implements to foodcrop farmers, (ii) all equipment
and implements to livestock producers under the animal disease
control program, and (iii) all inputs to industrial crop farmers,
shall be made at prices sufficient to at least recover at all
times the full cost thereof; and
(b) over a five-year period starting June 30, 1983, take
all measures satisfactory to the Association to ensure that, by
the end of such period, sales in the Project Area of all inputs
to foodcrop farmers and livestock producers under the anima,'
disease control program (in addition, to those referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) and (ii) above) shall be made at prices suffi-
cient to at least recover at all times the full cost thereof; it
being specified that, in order to achieve such objective, the
Borrower shall ensure that the ratio between the cost of each
input and the price actually paid for it be reduced each year by
at least one-fifth over its initial level.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance


﻿-9-
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) through BPI maintain or cause to be maintained
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals  are  requested   from  the  Credit  Account  under
Categories (1) and (4) of the table set out in paragraph .1 of
Schedule I hereto on the basis of statements of expenditure; (ii)
through BPI retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, inm
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably  requested,  including  without  limitation  to  the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
the transfer of management responsibility for the Bunia abattoir
from ONDE to ACOOPELI; and
(b) ensure that ACOOPELI at all times manage the Bunia
abattoir on a commercial basis with experienced and qualified
personnel   in  accordance   with  appropriate   financial  and
administrative practices.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) implement its policy,
as described in Arr&tds No. 018/81, and No. 110, dated June 1,
1981, and May 29, 1982, respectively, on the liberalization of
prices for agricultural and agro-industrial products; (ii)
review, once a year, the impact of such policy on the output of
such products in the Project Area; and (iii) exchange views with
the Association on such impact, promptly upon the completion of
such review.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the buildings,
infrastructure and equipment included in the Project to be ade-
quately maintained and cause all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof to be made promptly as required, all in accordance with
appropriate agricultural and management practices, and shall pro-
vide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for this pur-
pose.
(b) Without limitation to paragraph (a) of this Section the
Borrower shall ensure that: (i) during the execution of the Proj-
ect BPI adequately maintain the roads and bridges rehabilitated
under Part F of the Project, and (ii) following completion of the
Project, ACOOPELI adequately maintain said roads and bridges and
carry out all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices. For purposes
of this paragraph, the Borrower shall make available, initially
to BPI, and subsequently to ACOOPELI, the necessary funds,
facilities, equipment and services.
ARTicL2 V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant (including the CIDA
Grant ,r the French Grant) or loan made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to


﻿- 11 -
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the  Association   that:  (A)  such   suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that para-
graph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, that:
(a) the transfer arrangements referred to in Section 4.02
(a) of this Agreement shall have been completed; and
(b) the Association shall have been duly notified that all
conditions precedent to the first disbursement of funds under the
CIDA Grant Agreement and the French Grant Agreement, save for the
effectiveness hereof, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date       A          lS1%6j    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sec on 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Commissaire d'Etat Charge des Finances of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D&partement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                       Telex:
DENFIN                              298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            I     -O
B  ctk.  Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works     (                       )
(a) by force    (                      )
account    (                      )
(b) under       (                      )
contract   (                      )
(2) Equipment,       (        to be         )
materials and   (       allocated      )
vehicles        (       pursuant       ) 100% of foreign
(         to the       ) expenditures and
(3) Consultants'    (       Annual Work     ) 90% of local
services,       (        Program       ) expenditures
fellowships and (                      )
study tours     (                      )
(4) Operating costs (                       )
(incremental    (                      )
expenditures)   (                      )
(5) Refunding of                760,000       Amount due
Project
Preparation
Advance
(6) Unallocated              11,540,000
(to be allocated
to Categories (1)
through (4) pur-
suant to the
Annual Work Program)
TOTAL       12,300,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
J               or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental expenditures" means the amount of
expenditures for operating costs of BPI for the Project over and
above the total amount of such expenditures for BPI's operating
costs in the Project Area during the previous fiscal year.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) for
expenditures under Categories (1) through (4) related to
activities included in the BPI Annual Work Program for a given
year, unless the final version of such Annual Work Program,
together with the budget related thereto, shall have been
approved by the Association pursuant to Section 3.08 of this
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of th,e Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet


﻿- 16 -
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is a continuation of the Ituri Livestock
Development Project, has three main objectives in the Project
Area: (i) to increase livestock and foodcrop production; (ii) to
strengthen rural development institutions; and (iii) to support
the Borrower's efforts to improve its agricultural policies.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A
Improvement and extension of veterinary and animal produc-
tion services,. establishment and operation of an animal
disease control program, rehabilitation and construction of
veterinary and other infrastructure and buildings, and
acquisition of veterinary products, vehicles,'fencing mate-
rials and related equipment.
Part B
Development of foodcrop production and improvement in the
management of smallholder coffee holdings, through the
provision of agricultural inputs and extension services.
Part C
Improvement of BPI's human health services, through the
provision of medicines, vehicles and technical assistance.
Part D
Study to ascertain basic data on the major livestock
diseases and agricultural activities in the Project Area and
to set up a program to monitor the impact of the activities
carried out under the Project, including acquisition of
vehicles and equipment and the overseas training of
personnel.
Part E
Studies on soils, farming systems and population pressure,
and pilot activities (including a pilot-credit scheme).


﻿- 18 -
Part F
Maintenance and rehabilitation of roads and bridges,
including the acquisition of vehicles, materials and
equipment related thereto.
Part G
(a) Training   of  BPI  personnel  in managerial matters,
including fellowships and study tours.
(b) Training of ACOOPELI personnel in cooperative matters.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
_he goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Zaire


﻿- 20 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Zaire
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Zaire equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 21 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures and Procurement without
Contracting
(a) Contracts for civil works may be awarded on the basis
of local procurement procedures acceptable to the Association.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, civil works
contracts, for which no qualified contractors are available, may
be carried out under force account.
(b) Contracts for goods, whose individual estimated cost is
less than $300,000 equivalent, may be awarded on the basis of
(I         local   procedures  acceptable  to  the  Association, provided,
however, that the total cost of contracts so awarded shall not
exceed $1,500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 22 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the av .rd of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿I
-23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Annual Work Program
of BPI and Related Budget
(Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement)
The annual work Program will be conceived as a performance
and planning document. As such, it will include a statement of
the specific objectives to be pursued for the coming year, a
description by Project component of the activities to be under-
taken in order to achieve those objectives, a presentation of the
resources (human, financial and physical) required and an annual
budget presenting all those elements in financial terms. It will
consist of four basic parts:
1.   A brief evaluation of the previous year's performance
and a discussion of how results obtained are related to the new
program.
2.   A description of the program of activities, including
the quantified implementation objectives, output and impact
indicators of the Project (where appropriate), as well as the
distribution of functions between BPI and ACOOPELI. As an
indication, the following topics will be covered:
A.   Animal Health
(a) Vaccination campaigns, by disease:
-. availability of vaccine;
-   participation by farmers; and
- role of ACOOPELI.
(b) Animals to be dipped.
(c) Deworming campaigns.
(d) Current level of ticks, tickborne diseases along with
the source of information.
(e) Herd sizes.


﻿-24 -
B.   Animal Production and Marketing
(a) Animal Production:
-    livestock  improvement,   e.g.  births,   deaths,
castrations, culling, livestock census;
-    pasture improvement;
-    range management - pasture demarcation and tenure;
-    commercialization;
-    ranches;
-    support for ACOOPELI -     e.g. distribution   of
implements and supplies; and
-    research studies.
(b) Marketing and commercialization:
-    the fundamental problem: inadequate demand for
beef in the Ituri sub-region, especially for beef
produced in the central and northern sectors;
-    development of local markets;
-    sales statistics;
-    slaughter statistics;
-    prices - including the impact of the Borrower's
policy referred to in Section 4.03 hereof; and
-    marketing to urban centers outside Ituri.
C.   Training and Extension
-.   Staff training plans with statements of specific
objectives;
-    radio broadcasts;
-    brochures;


﻿-25-
-    short courses;
-    extension work in the field;
-    producers' association;
-    public relations;
-    anti-theft campaign;
-    work in the schools; and
-    Ngabu Training Center.
D.   Construction
(a) Construction progress by sector:
-    new buildings; and
-    repair work.
(b) Tendering.
E.   Mechanical Work
(a) Repair of vehicles and generators.
(b) Acquisition of new vehicles and equipment.
(c) Maintenance of stores.
F.   Medical Activities
Number of consultations at dispensary.
G.   Administration and Finance
(a) Personnel:
-    expatriates;
-    local personnel (professional/technical);
- other local staff - including the Borrower's per-
sonnel policies; and


﻿- 26 -
-    remuneration - incentives.
(b) Accounting.
(c) Vital Supplies:
-    fuel;
-    foreign exchange; and
-    information/correspondence.
H.   Crop Development
-    objectives for the coming year;
-    improved seed production;
-    import of inputs;
-    distribution of inputs;
-    number of farmers to be reached; and
-    status of yields and areas planted.
I.   Studies, Trials, Pilot Activities
Objectives and description of studies together with the
trials and pilot activities proposed for the year concerned.
1.   A brief evaluation of the previous year's performance
and a discussion of how results obtained are related to the new
program.
2.   A description of the program of activities, including
the quantified implementation objectives, output and impact
indicators of the Project (where appropriate), as well as the
distribution of functions between BPI and ACOOPELI. As an
indication, the following topics will be covered:
3.   Detailed investment and operating budgets in the form
of an annual budget that will include:
(a) the proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on civil works,
vehicles and equipment) for all Project components;


﻿-27-
(b) the proposed expenditures on salaries, materials, fuel,
repairs and maintenance; and
(c) detailed financial projections for the year concerned,
including an estimate of the funds necessary by Category and
source of funding.
4.   Planning for the procurement of goods and services.


﻿*
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   2u       day of .   A    ,
198 ,.
FOR SECRETARY


