Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22286-EC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
POVERTY REDUCTION AND LOCAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT (PROLOCAL)
PROJECT
June 8, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Develpment
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
f Exchange Rate Effective September 2000)
Currency Unit = Ecuadorian Sucres
1 Ecuadorian Sucre = US$0.00003984
US$1 = 25,100 Ecuadorian Sucres
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BGs                Beneficiary Groups                  MBS                Ministry of Social Welfare
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy         MIS                Management Information Systems
CC                 Credit Cooperatives                 MOSTA              Ecuador Modemization of the State Project
CGAP               Consultative Group to Assist the    NCB                National Compettive Bidding
Poorest
CONAM              Council for State Modemization      NCU                National Coordination Unit
CONCOPE            Council of Provinces                NGO                Non-Govemmental Organization
EFL                Local Financial Institutions       NPV                 Net Present Value
ERR                Economic Rate of Retum             ODEPLAN             National Planning Office
FAO                Food & Agriculture Organiation of the  OM              Operating Manual
UN
FISE               Social Investment Fund             PAT                 Ecuador Irrigation Technical Assistance project
FONLOCAL           Local Development Fund             PDM                 Ecuador Municipal Development Program
GEF                Global Environment Facility         PIP                Project Implementation Plan
IADB               Inter-American Development Bank    PMR                 Project Management Report
IBRD               Intemational Bank for Reconstruction   PRODEPINE       Ecuador Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
and Development                                       Development Project
ICR                Implementation Completion Report    PROLOCAL           Poverty Reduction & Local Rural Development
IFAD               Intemational Fund for Agricultural  PROMSA             Ecuador Modemration of Agricuitural Sector
Development
IMF                Intemational Monetary Fund         PRONADER            Ecuador Rural Development Project
IRR                Intemal Rate of Retum              QCBS                Quality and Cost Based Selection
LACI               Loan Administration Change Initiative   RCU            Regional Coordination Units
LFI                Local Financial Intermediaries     SICA                Ecuador Information and Agricultural Census
project
LSPs               Local Service Providers            SOEs                Statements of Expenditures
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation          SSRD                Subsecretary for Rural Development of MBS
MAG                Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Vice President:      David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:          Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:         John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Norman B. Piccioni



ECUADOR
POVERTY REDUCTION AND LOCAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT (PROLOCAL)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  4
2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                       6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         10
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                           11
3. Technical                                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                                       12
5. Environmental                                                                       14
6. Social                                                                              15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      17
2. Critical risks                                                                      17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      18



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                              19
2. Other                                                                                19
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           32
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                     33
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                 38
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       47
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     48
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    50
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              51
Annex I1: Communications Strategy                                                          53
Annex 12: Targeting, Monitoring and Evaluation                                             55
Annex 13: Environmental Assessment Procedure for Financing Local Development Sub-projects:  60
Procedure for subprojects screening
Annex 14: Social Assessment Findings                                                       62
MAP(S)
Non-IBRD Map of Ecuador, Microregions PROLOCAL



ECUADOR
Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: June 8, 2001                               Team Leader: Norman Bentley Piccioni
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero        Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P039437                              Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, IL - Small Scale
Enterprise, MC - Community Action Program
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[Xj Loan    [ I Credit    1 Grant      [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 25.2
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% first 4 years, 0.75% thereafter   Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       2.87           0.00          2.87
IBRD                                                          19.52           5.68         25.20
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              4.08           0.72          4.80
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                             7.61           1.48          9.09
Total:                                                        34.08           7.88         41.96
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
Annual    2.40        5.40       8.10      6.40       2.90
Cumulative    2.40       7.80      15.90      22.30     25.20
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/21/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
0CS PAD Fa  Re-  Mnl 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To strengthen local empowerment, improve quality of local services, and increase access to productive
assets to improve the well-being of poor households in selected micro-regions.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following benchmark indicators have been agreed to monitor the Project performance:
*   60,000 households take active role in elaborating own local development plans;
* 150 local governments collaborate with beneficiaries in generating development plans at the Parroquia
and Cant6n levels*;
*   80% of expected counterpart contributions are made available by local organizations;
*   30% of individuals participating in community development planning process are women;
*   80% of beneficiaries are poor;
*   Beneficiary households improve access to productive assets;
e   Beneficiary households improve access to quality rural development services;
3   Income level of beneficiaries of productive projects improves by 15%;
o   Underemployment among beneficiary households decreases by 20%.
* Aparroquia is the smallest territorial administative unit. More parroquias form a Cantdn or municipality.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2000-102[IFC/R2000-l 111               Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/25/97
During the last three years Ecuador has experienced a series of natural disasters and economic shocks
which caused its economy to plunge into the most severe recession in modem times. The Bank Group's
assistance program is first focused on short-term actions to protect the poor and restore macro-economic
stability. The proposed project supports the program's medium and longer-term objective of promoting
sustainable development and poverty reduction. More specifically, the Project will build on the lessons
learned from eight years of implementation of the recently completed Rural Development Project
(PRONADER, Loan 3390-EC). It will seek to capitalize on the recognition that communities and
decentralized units have the potential to more responsively and efficiently provide key public services, while
simultaneously creating employment opportunities for the poor.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty was widespread and income inequality was pronounced even before this economic recession cut
further real income and consumption of the poor and reduced the quality and quantity of basic public
services. In 1998, the incidence of poverty in the country was estimated at almost 63%, up from 56% in
1995. Similarly, extreme poverty during the same period increased by more than 30%, from 20 to 27%
(Larrea et al, 1999, data from 1995 and 1998 LSMS). Research carried out for the Bank's Poverty
Assessment in 1996 confirmed that poverty is higher in rural areas, characterized by lack of education, lack
of access to land, and few non-agricultural employment opportunities. The Bank's recent Gender Review
found that the poor, but particularly women, have more limited access to the formal labor, land, and credit
markets as well as to effective political participation. Correcting these inequalities is a strategic challenge
for the country.
-2 -



Instability in Ecuador's institutional framework and leadership is a serious problem -- during the last six
years, there have been five presidents, 13 finance ministers, and eight Central Bank heads. Regional
rivalries and fragmented political parties make consensus hard to sustain. Ecuador remains a unitary state
with highly centralized systems of public service delivery. Public regulatory and administrative institutions
are weak and inefficient, while corruption is a long-standing problem. There is increasing cynicism and lack
of trust in the political process to address these problems. At the same time the economic crisis has severely
reduced government resources to finance public services, and the shrinking banking system can no longer
provide formal credit to support, let alone finance, an expansion in economic activity.
In the past, the growth of most rural activities has been based on expansion of land dedicated to agriculture,
but this trend has required the poor to cultivate less productive land in jungle and mountainous terrain, with
negative impacts on the country's biodiversity and environment. As a result Ecuador is losing its rainforests
and coastal wetlands at an alarming rate. Soil and water resources are poorly managed, especially in the
Sierra, the central region of the country.
To protect the poor and vulnerable groups from declining incomes in the short term, the Government has
undertaken an Emergency Social Plan to target key social safety net programs and to provide direct
assistance to these groups through school feeding programs and cash transfers. To improve the efficiency
of public resource use and restore confidence in public institutions, the Government is accelerating its
program to reform and modernize the state. This will require both political and financial decentralization of
management and decision making to sub-national entities. Congress passed a law in October 1997 which
lays out the framework and principles for this, but as yet no regulations have been written. The next step is
to develop a national consensus on more precisely how decentralization should occur and to begin the
process. There is increasing political support for the struggle against corruption. The government has
recently created several high-level commissions which are proposing changes to criminal procedures, codes
on public contracting and administrative procedures to ensure conformity with legal norms and ethical
principles.
Last year Congress passed a comprehensive umbrella Environmental Law that provides the framework to
tackle most environmental issues, and the Government intends to at least maintain public expenditure for
environmental protection activities during its IMF-approved stabilization program. The Government, with
help from the Bank and FAO, is developing a national water resources strategy, and has prepared a
national water use law for approval by Congress. Land issues in Ecuador are being studied in a cooperative
prograrn with the Bank, IDB and FAO, with the objective to develop an action program to improve land
markets. The Ministry of the Environment is revitalizing its national program of biodiversity protection. Its
program would be financed by GEF, foreign foundations and debt swaps, and implemented primarily by
NGOs.
To address these issues, the Government released in August 2000 the comprehensive policy document Plan
de Gobierno 2000-2003, which emphasizes the importance of: (i) social capital development based on the
organization, (ii) human capital formation based on education and services, and (iii) access to productive
assets based on the sustainable use of the productive potential of the natural resources of the country
(Vicepresidencia de la Repuiblica del Ecuador, ODEPLAN, Plan de Gobiemo 2000 - 2003: Hacia un nuevo
rumbo, Quito, August, 2000). In line with the Government's poverty reduction strategy, PROLOCAL
builds on these three pillars, which are at the core of its execution strategy.
- 3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project would specifically support environmentally sustainable development in selected poor rural
areas with an emphasis on narrowing the income gap between rich and poor. To be effective, economic
growth must have a broader base, which includes the disadvantaged, such as women, in the lowest income
groups. Surveys undertaken as part of the Ecuador Poverty Assessment have determined that these groups
have almost no access to centrally- managed, productivity-enhancing public services such as technical
assistance, market information, and transport infrastructure. Their local communities are usually poorly
organized and also dependent on centralized services that are seldom delivered. There is a general
recognition that the current system is broken and cannot be fixed, and that decentralization is the most
likely answer. Unfortunately the new political and administrative model has not been devised, so the Project
would go outside the current system to a large extent, to work directly with poor rural communities.
PROLOCAL would attempt to transform dependent communities into proactive groups, empowered to
address their development problems.
Traditional, informal systems of participation at the community level would be used to take decisions on
the allocation of Project resources for rural investments and human capital formation. Project financial
resources and contracting would also be managed at the local level, though supervised and audited by the
center. TA services for participatory planning would be contracted from NGOs and private companies. The
Project design would emphasize a strategy of participation and inclusion and would recognize that rural
development depends on the linkage between farm and off-farm, vertical integration, and peri-urban
economic activity.
This approach, of using communities and their territorial or second-tier organizations to implement the
Project, would follow the arrangements being carried out by the Bank's Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
Development Project (PRODEPINE, Loan 4277-EC) approved in 1998. While PRODEPINE depends on
ethnic affinity groups to channel resources, PROLOCAL would work with non-indigenous peasant
communities, and its intervention would focus on different geographic areas. Although the Ecuador Poverty
Assessment confirmed the linkage between poverty and access to land, the Project would not seek to
address this problem specifically. The Government agencies responsible for dealing with land ownership
are weak, the studies to define possible reforms are not complete, and time would be needed to develop a
political consensus on future action.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Expected to last five years, the loan will start financing activities in two micro-regions, and it will
progressively extend to an additional four micro-regions. Activities to be financed are grouped under four
components.
Component A: Local Development Planning
The component will promote social capital formation by supporting planning for local development at (i)
community, (ii) Parroquia and (iii) Cant6n levels as part of a participatory development planning process.
Rural communities would identify priority subprojects, a subset of which would be selected for streamlined
preparation and execution. Community representatives would participate in a similar planning process at a
higher, Parroquia level where similar community subprojects might be integrated in Parroquia subprojects.
By the same token, Cantones would prepare their development plans which could include linkages to those
of Parroquias and their subprojects.
-4 -



Component B: Local Development Services
The component will train the various local stakeholders of the Project, so that they can successfully play
their roles. Through a tiered sequence of activities, the Project would first contract competitively with
nationally organized networks of NGOs with experience in training their own members. These groups
would: (i) survey the existing technical skills in the target micro-regions and prepare capacity gap analysis;
(ii) prepare and implement training programs to address local gaps and pass on the Project methodologies
to be followed during implementation; (iii) promote the formation of local networks' of the technicians
trained, certifying their capabilities to participate in the next phase of project implementation. In phase two
of the training, these certified technicians would train the leadership and technical staff of the organizations
which will identify and implement subprojects. In a third sequential or parallel phase, these certified local
consulting service providers would provide technical assistance to local governments at the community,
Parroquia and Cant6n level to promote democratic participation and transparent management and
administration.
Component C: Subprojects
The component will improve access to public good assets by establishing a demand-driven, matching-grant
fund to finance technical assistance, infrastructure, productive capacity of socio-territorial organizations,
and environmental investments. Technical screening of identified subprojects would be undertaken by
project technical personnel at the regional level, according to criteria in the Operating Manual (OM). Each
subproject would be implemented on the basis of a contract between the Regional Coordination Unit and
the beneficiary group (BG). If the BG did not have the proper legal status, activities would be carried out
by a third party, selected by the group, through a tripartite contract. BGs would be responsible for
mobilizing counterpart funds from beneficiaries, administration of funds, contracting, and supervision of
subproject implementation. NGOs would provide TA to fill those gaps in BGs' implementation capacity
identified during subproject preparation, and would monitor counterpart contributions. Project
administration personnel at the regional level would monitor subproject expenditure accounts. The
component would finance around 600 community subprojects, 120 Parroquia subprojects, and 30
inter-Parroquia subprojects.
Component D: Proiect Coordination Unit
The component would finance costs for consultant services and equipment to carry out managerial,
financial and technical coordination through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Under a Board that
represents the public and private sectors, the PCU will be composed of a National Coordination Unit
(NCU) at central level, and of up to six Regional Coordination Units (RCUs), one for each micro-region.
Core staff at the central level will include an Executive Director, a Technical Coordinator, an
Administrative Coordinator with financial management functions, a Procurement Specialist, three
Technical Specialists for the components, a Specialist in M&E, a Specialist in communications, a
Specialist in gender (shared with PROGENIAL Project) and a System Specialist. Staff at the regional level
will include a Regional Coordinator and three Technical Specialists.
A network is defined here as a group of development service providers, formal or infornal, governmental,
non-governmental or mixed, linked geographically, functionally or institutionally. In the last five years, networks
have become the alternative and primary poverty reduction tool in poor micro-regions.
- 5 -



Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
W(USM)   Total    (US$M)  financing
(A) Local Development Planning     Community           2.98       7.1      2.33        9.2
Action Program
(B) Local Development Services     Vocational/Techn    7.43      17.7      5.89       23.4
ical Education &
Training
(C) Subprojects                   Institutional       25.47      60.7     13.12       52.1
Development
(D) Project Coordination Unit     Institutional        5.83      13.9      3.61       14.3
Development
Total Project Costs                 41.71       99.4     24.95      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.25       0.6      0.25        1.0
Total Financing Required                   41.96      100.0     25.20     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
PROLOCAL will not support any major policy and institutional reform. It would on an ad hoc basis
promote transfer and delegation of responsibilities to local government entities, and greater participation by
dependent provincial government entities.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. Major benefits expected from the Project would include: human capital formation in local
institutions and organizations; social capital building through empowerment of local organizations and
communities; poverty reduction through increased employment and income generation of poor households;
and improved natural resource base and environmental conditions. Income increases would essentially come
from improved land and labor productivity, production value added, and increased employment
opportunities. Local development subprojects would be oriented toward increased household incomes and
environmental conservation. Human capital formation and empowerment of local actors would contribute
to the proper execution and control of development subprojects in the short-to-medium term, and to the
sustainability of local development in the longer term.
- 6 -



Target area and population. As a program of targeted intervention, PROLOCAL would reach the most
vulnerable groups of the population through targeting at different levels. In its first level, geographical
targeting would permit the Project's resources to be concentrated on those territorial entities with the
greatest developmental need. A total of 120 Parroquias in 31 Cantones, grouped in 6 micro-regions, were
identified as the result of a process which involved the use of statistical information and inputs from
participatory exercises at the community level'. The Project would cover up to 19,000 square kilometers, or
8% of the national territory, and would include more than 800,000 people, of which almost three quarters
are poor. This latter group, of approximately 600,000 people, represents the Project target population.
Despite the already very high levels of poverty exhibited by each of the 120 selected Parroquias, a second
level of targeting would make an additional effort to exclude ineligible households from accessing the
Project's resources through a community-based, consensus-building process. This screening process will
consider: (i) the positive externalities of heterogeneous groups reflecting the socio-economic make-up of the
commnunity; (ii) the social and administrative costs of second-tier targeting; and (iii) the moral costs
associated with unintended exclusions. The effectiveness of the targeting methodology will be assessed
through the Project monitoring system, as well as on the basis of the proposed ex-post evaluation study and
the annual beneficiary assessments (Cfr. Annex 12 for details).
South of Manabi, Westem Los Rios, Central Los Andes, Eastem Loja, High Watershed of Jubones River, and
Watershed of El Angel River.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The loan is expected to become effective in September 2001, for a five year
implementation period. It will terminate in June 2006.
Execution: The Project will be executed through an autonomous Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
composed of: (i) a National Coordination Unit (NCU) and (ii) up to six decentralized regional units
(RCUs), one for each micro-region. The PCU will report to the PROLOCAL Board, established by the
Presidential Decree of March 15, 2001. The Board is presided over by the Minister of Social Welfare and
includes the Sub-secretary of Rural Development of the Ministry of Social Welfare, the Minister of
Environment, the Executive Director of ODEPLAN, and two representatives from national networks of
NGOs.
Implementation: NGOs, Academia, Juntas, grass-roots organizations, producers' associations, and other
Local Services Provides (LSPs) would implement components A and B, and Beneficiary Groups (BGs)
would implement component C through contracts with RCUs.
Financial arrangements: PMRs would be used as the basis for quarterly disbursements from the Bank to
the Project's Special Account. The NCU would make monthly transfers to the RCUs based on their
approved annual operating plans and justification of prior disbursement. Each BG implementing a
subproject would have a bank account and would receive transfers from the RCU based on the approved
subprojects disbursement schedule. The correspondent RCU would provide physical and financial
oversight, and would audit executing entities. Annual project financial audits, carried out by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, would include a sample of subprojects within each region.
Procurement arrannements: The PCU would oversee project procurement including procurement training,
approvals, supervision and auditing. Annex 6 specifies thresholds for prior review for BGs, RCUs and
NCU. Procurement for components A, B and C would be handled by BGs. The LSPs would provide
assistance to BGs, to carry out the procurement function on their subprojects based on the capacity to
manage procurement. RCUs would provide backstopping and carry out procurement audits on subprojects.
- 7 -



Monitoring and evaluation: The Projects M&E system will consist of four modules: (i) a Management
Information System (MIS), which will track the Project's progress on a set of process indicators and feed
into management's decision-making; (ii) annual beneficiary assessments, which will provide the target
group's perceptions of and reactions to Project progress; (iii) an impact evaluation study, which will
quantify the final impact which can be attributed to the Project; and (iv) standard auditing and supervision
missions, which will review the technical and fiduciary aspects twice a year or more often if required.
RCUs would monitor components A and B directly, and LSPs would provide monitoring inputs to RCUs
on components A, B, and C. The NCU will aggregate all monitoring and evaluation inputs for project-level
decision making and reporting. The beneficiary assessments and the impact evaluation study will be
contracted out, and the NCU, in the person of the Evaluation Specialist, will be in charge of the
coordination and technical supervision of the studies. World Bank staff and consultants will be responsible
for periodic supervision missions.
Expansion to additional micro-regions: The Project activities will start in two micro-regions. Tentatively,
after two years of implementation, specific trigger indicators will be evaluated in order to assess readiness
to expand up to four additional micro-regions (see addendum to Annex 1 for a complete list of the trigger
indicators).
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Operations Manual (OM): The Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
will be broken down into Annual Implementation Plans (AIP). The AIP will be the principal tool for
coordination between the NCU and RCUs. AIPs would be prepared by the NCU and RCUs, approved by
the PROLOCAL Board and presented to the Bank for no objection before the beginning of the budget year.
The Operational Manual (OM) would include rules and regulations on the operation of all components of
the Project. Updates in the OM would require the no objection of the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
For reasons outlined in Part B above, the proposed project would not follow the design of the Rural
Development Project (PRONADER) as a "repeater". The Government's demonstrated lack of capability to
successfully administer centrally-controlled projects called for a new approach. Two options for
implementation were considered. Since the Decentralization Law of 1997 calls for provincial and municipal
governments to take more responsibility, Project preparation explored the feasibility of operating through
these entities and of including an objective to strengthen these institutions as agents of local development.
However the continuing lack of legal regulations to clarify responsibilities at this level made this option
impractical at this time, and it was dropped. The second option of relying on local communities to identify
and implement activities to be financed by the Project was adopted instead. This approach would not
preclude a future role in this Project for municipalities and other sub-national political entities, if legal
definitions in this respect can be clarified.
The PRONADER project was managed by the Ministry of Social Welfare (MSW) as an internal activity of
its Sub-Secretary of Rural Development (SRD). This arrangement proved cumbersome, bureaucratic, and
exposed project staff to the internal politics of a ministry with constantly changing top management. The
proposed project will therefore rely on a temporary, independent and decentralized Project Coordination
Unit outside the bureaucratic chain of command.
The Government has managed much of its investment in rural infrastructure for education and public health
through its Social Investment Fund (FISE), previously financed by the Bank (Loan 3707EC, which has
closed). During project preparation the Bank and the Borrower seriously considered using FISE as the
financial agent for the proposed project, but decided against it. FISE's more recent record in managing a
- 8 -



project financed by other multilateral development banks has been disappointing in several respects. It was
agreed that the time and effort needed to strengthen FISE would delay project launch and add activities
which would dilute the Project's primary objectives.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The issues related to rural poverty are addressed most specifically by the Bank's PRONADER (recently
completed), PRODEPINE and Irrigation Technical Assistance projects, while IFAD, FAO and the
Netherlands also have projects in this sector. Governance issues revolving around decentralization,
regulation, administration and corruption have been addressed in the Bank's PDM and MOSTA projects,
and IADB's PAM project strengthens municipalities. The Financial Sector TA project is helping the
Government to restore the formal banking sector. IADB has a project to provide credit to small and
medium enterprises, and Swisscontact (an international NGO) is working to strengthen a network of
unregulated credit cooperatives. The Bank's PROMSA and SICA projects are working to improve
agricultural services, while IADB has recently completed a project to strengthen agricultural sector policy.
The Bank's PATRA and the GEF I and II projects are addressing environmental and biodiversity
management problems. IADB has financed the FISE II project to help communities build health and
education infrastructure.
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.            {B~~~iank-inan ced projects only?L
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rural Development                 PRONADER                          U             U
Indigenous and Afro-Ecuatorian    PRODEPINE                         S             S
Communities
Municipal Development             PDM - WB, IADB and GTZ            S             S
Irrigation - Technical Assistance  PAT - Irrigation                 S             S
Modernization of the State        MOSTA                             S             S
Modernization of Agricultural Sector  PROMSA                        S             S
Information and Agricultural Census   SICA                          S             S
Other development agencies
Agricultural Sector Policy        PSA -IADB
Credit - Small & Medium Scale Firms  Several - IADB
Rural Development                 Several - IFAD
Support to Financial Intermediaries    CREA - Swisscontact (NGO)
Assistance to Municipalities      PAM - CORDES (NGO)
Food Security                     PESA - FAO, FECD (NGO)
Community Forestry                DFC - FAO, Netherlands
Health and empowerment            PES Loja -PHO, Netherlands
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-9-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The findings of PRONADER's Implementation Completion Report, recently finalized, have been carefully
reflected in the design of PROLOCAL. The single most important finding was that project outcomes were
continually handicapped by an unstable political and economic environment. The new Government's
economic policy reforms are expected to ameliorate this situation in the future, but in the meantime the
proposed Project has been designed to better deal with these problems. An independent Project
Coordination Unit would insulate management staff from the frequent changes in political leadership. The
length of project implementation has been shortened to five years in order to maintain its focus and client
commitment in an unstable political environment. The number of objectives and the corresponding
components have been reduced to sharpen focus. The Government (MSW) responsibility for rural
development will change from active intervenor to coordinator, regulator, and monitor of mostly private
actors. The centralized approach will be replaced by a demand-driven and localized decision-making
process. This will allow communities to custom design Project financed activities to reflect their geographic
and cultural diversity.
The Bank's regional experience in rural investments shows that: (i) when subprojects are selected in this
way, they are more likely to meet the community's needs than if they are chosen to reflect the priorities of a
government agency; (ii) when a community develops a sense of ownership in a subproject, it is more willing
and interested in sharing its costs and ensuring its maintenance; and (iii) once a community is given the
responsibility for implementing a subproject that it identified and prepared, it has a great interest in
ensuring that the private contractor chosen does it properly and honestly.
The former emphasis on agricultural production as the engine for rural development has been changed to
recognize the importance of value added chains, access to markets and complementary, off-farm activities
linked to urban centers. The evaluation for PRONADER showed that the sustainability of many
value-added community activities and investments was compromised by a lack of local management skills
and market knowledge. It also found that many activities never got started due the low levels of social
capital in rural areas. Social/political links and trust between local economic and political actors, both
public and private, were weak or missing. The proposed Project will have three of its four components
focused on improving these deficiencies. In addition, technical assistance activities would train these
community groups in subproject preparation, appraisal, procurement, environmental protection, accounting
and control. All subprojects would be subject to minimum economic eligibility criteria.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Project identification was overseen by two institutions in the Office of the Presidency: the National
Planning Office (ODEPLAN) and the Council for State Modernization (CONAM). The President publicly
endorsed the concept and assigned responsibility for project preparation to the Ministry of Social Welfare.
The vice-presidency, through the Fondo de Solidariedad, committed counterpart funds. Civil society has
been actively involved in identification. At the beginning, four thematic working groups or support
networks were formed to provide guidance, feedback and perform specific tasks. A group for institutional
policy and decentralization had 17 institutions led by the Association of Municipalities (AME) and Council
of Provinces (CONCOPE). Groups were also formed for human capital development (27 institutions), rural
finance (13), and sustainability and integration (41). Several bilateral and multilateral donors also
participated.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a long history of involvement in rural development issues in Ecuador. Also, over time the
Bank has developed, through its PRODEPINE project in Ecuador, techniques in local participation which
- 10-



are being transferred to the proposed Project. These can be complemented by the Bank's positive
experiences from other countries in the region.
The Project is designed to rely on communities for implementation, while Government defines in more
detail its role in a decentralized political system. The Bank's involvement in the Modernization of the State
Project (MOSTA) and the Municipal Development Program (PDM) will provide important links to
PROLOCAL in this respect.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$17.8 million; ERR = 18.9 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Costs. Total project costs were included for the economic feasibility analysis. Investment and recurrent
costs of potential subprojects were obtained from the economic and financial analysis in project files.
Benefits. Benefits generated by local investment subprojects include: revenues from increased production
and value added; increased natural assets such as commercial and conservation forests; and improved
health reflected in reduction of treatmnent costs. Non-quantified benefits include inter alia: increased water
supply and soil conservation, due to proper watershed management; greater social cohesion or social
capital; increased local development capacities or human capital; and expanded rural financial markets.
Non-quantified negative externalities may also be generated, such as social conflicts associated to
community priority setting, commnunity subproject selection and subproject failures.
Aggregate Net Benefits. For projection purposes, aggregate economic benefits and costs were calculated
for one, two and three rounds of potential subprojects (Tables I and 2, Annex 4). The subprojects analyzed
would generate around US$17 million of economic benefits in present value and reach around 20,000
families. However, subproject failures may significantly reduce these benefits. Considering total Project
costs, one round of subprojects would generate US$1.9 million of discounted net benefits. Required local
investment funds would be around US$17.8 million. Two rounds of subprojects would generate US$18.8
million of discounted net benefits. Required local investment funds would be around US$24.8 million.
Three rounds of subprojects would generate US$35.7 rnillion of discounted net benefits. Required local
investment funds would be around US$37.2 million. Project economic NPV and IRR could have been
calculated with available information. However, considering the lack of certainty on overall Project
performance, as it is largely determined by beneficiaries during implementation, they were not included as
feasibility reference indicators.
Overall Sensitivity and Risk Mitigation Measures. Considering aggregate benefits of analyzed
subprojects, the Project switching value would be 12% benefit reduction value in terms of economic
feasibility. These margin of benefit reductions translate into a reduced margin of acceptable subproject
failures. Thus the Project has been designed so as to minimize subproject failure risks, through
participatory planning, technical support during subproject preparation, on-site beneficiary training, and
subproject screening and design. Subproject co-financing arnangements would allow for healthy
project/beneficiary risk sharing.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 34.6 million; FRR = 25.7 % (see Annex 4)
Revenues. Financial revenues generated by local investment subprojects include inter alia: revenues from
increased production and value added; revenues from potential sale of forest products; and reduced family
- 11 -



spending as a result of reduction of medical treatment costs.
Subproject Feasibility. As shown in Tables 1 and 2, most feasible subprojects would be organic
agriculture and artisanal sugar-cane processing. In terms of the execution level, community subprojects
showed higher financial Net Present Values. On average, community subprojects yield a financial NPV of
US$1,400/family. In terms of micro-regions, higher feasibility indicators were found in Estribaciones
Centrales de Los Andes and Region Sur de Manabi. On average, subprojects in such regions yield a
financial NPV of US$2,300/family, and US$ 1,000/family respectively. Finally,
Agribusiness/service-supply showed higher financial Net Present Values. On average, these subprojects
yield a financial NPV of US$2,800/family. However, as shown below, they are fragile in terms of potential
benefit reductions.
Subproject Sensitivity. Considering the relatively high risk of failure of subprojects, generated by
demand-driven investment projects, switching values of benefit reductions were calculated for analyzed
subprojects. Most analyzed processing/service-supply subprojects appear fragile. They would have
feasibility problems if estimated benefits are reduced by 2-20%. Noteworthy exceptions would be
sugar-cane processing subprojects and associative input supply and technical assistance subprojects. In
contrast, most agricultural subprojects seem to be moderately robust as their estimated benefits could be
reduced by 30-50% before their financial NPV became negative.
Fiscal Impact:
Considering no recovery of value-added tax (most likely situation in rural areas and micro-enterprises) one,
two and three rounds of analyzed subprojects would generate US$5.6 million, US$11.2 million and
US$16.8 million, respectively, in taxes at present value -amounts significantly smaller than total
discounted project costs. Rice production, processing and marketing subproject (in Regi6n Occidental de
Los Rios) would generate around US$1.6 million of fiscal revenues -significantly higher than any other
subproject.
3. Technical:
The Project follows best practice for the design of rural and community-driven development programs and
has been targeted to the poorest communities based on relevant criteria. It uses the principles of
participation and empowerment to help communities select and implement their own productive
investments. The methodologies to be followed have been largely validated in the PRODEP1NE project,
which has been under implementation for two years. Although the subprojects in Component C cannot be
identified in advance (the process is demand-driven), models of probable investments have been validated.
The capacity of the MSW to implement this Project is very limited, so it will contract with LSPs to deliver
most project services.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Board of PROLOCAL, presided by the MSW, will be responsible for project implementation through
the Project Coordination Unit. While the NCU will be established up front, RCUs will increase in number
(up to six) as the Project rolls out.
- 12-



Regional Coordination
Units (RCUs)
National    -
PROLOCAL                     Coordinat.                Regional Coordination
Board         <   >         Unit                        Units (RCUs)
(NCU
__   _        -                          /
ODEPLAN           MSW                                  ..  Regional Coordination
- ODEPLAN                                                  . 
- Ministry of Environment                                        Units (RCUs)
Networks
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
4.2 Project management:
The design of this Project assumed that political decentralization will take place in the future. The Project
management arrangements therefore will not seek to build a permanent institutional entity which will prove
irrelevant when decentralization occurs. The use of RCUs will de-concentrate administrative capacity to the
rural areas, establishing local units where the subprojects will be implemented by BGs. According to the
Project's administrative staffing plan, in the first year of Project implementation, 37 staff are planned for
administration with a gradual increase to a maximum of 75,
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment was carried out by authorized World Bank staff in February 2001 and certified
accordingly. At the time of the assessment the Project was not expected to satisfy the Bank's minimum
procurement requirements. An action plan to remedy this situation has been agreed with the MSW and the
PROLOCAL team. According to the action plan, staffing requirements at the national level include one
procurement specialist with substantial experience in Bank-financed procurement and support staff as
needed. At the regional level up to six procurement specialists would be hired, one for each RCU. If
recruits at the RCU level do not have Bank-financed procurement experience, procurement training will be
provided. Training would also be provided to LSPs on Bank procurement requirements. These LSPs, along
with RCU staff, would oversee the procurement of goods and services by grassroots executing groups.
The Project would utilize LACI PMR-based disbursement. A PMR reports-generating system would be
installed in the national and regional units. Additional actions, include the adoption of a procurement
operations manual, with a description of procurement responsibilities, processes, and intemal controls,
establishment of a reliable and secure filing system, and preparation of standard procurement documents
acceptable to the Bank, including NCB documents, formats for shopping, and a contract for individual
consultants. The current risk rating, based on the situation at the time of the assessment is "average". A
Country Procurement Assessment has been carried out in April 2000. In the Bank's opinion, the general
risk assessment of Ecuador is "high".
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was carried out by an authorized World Bank staff in February 2001
and certified according OP/BP 10.02 and the Project Financial Management Handbook dated February
1999. According to the assessment, the Project did not meet the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. An action plan has been agreed and progress monitored. Action plan items include the
following: at the national level, staffing would require a financial administrator and an accountant. At the
- 13-



regional level, up to 6 financial specialists/accountants would be hired, one for each RCU. In the selection
criteria, preference will be given to those with Bank-financed financial management experience. An
accounting system will be installed prior to project effectiveness in the national and regional offices and
within 6 months of effectiveness date, will produce the financial management PMRs. A Financial
Management Manual including policies and procedures for Planning, Budgeting, Accounting, Reporting,
and Auditing will be prepared and approved by the Bank before Project effectiveness. Project chart of
accounts and Audit Terms of Reference in accordance with the Bank Guidelines and Tenns of Reference
for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank have already been approved by the Bank.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed Loan will finance small-scale rural development projects under Component C, where the
range of environmental issues to be considered will be relatively narrow and specific. Most of these
subprojects will not be located in environmentally sensitive areas. There will be a set of stand-alone
environmental subprojects that will generate positive environmental impacts. However, because these
investments cannot be identified ex-ante (only subprojects models have been identified), the Project is rated
B. An environmental baseline survey was carried out for the six micro-regions, and environmental
safeguard policies have been included in the Local Investment Fund Operational Manual. The survey,
which includes a subprojects typology with a negative list and categories (A,B, and C, following the Bank's
system) has been used to prepare the Operational Manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The survey provides a description of relevant physical, biological and socio-economic characteristics of
these areas. The analysis was based on a review of available secondary information and complemented with
information collected at the field level. The findings of the survey provide: (i) strategic guidance to the
Borrower on prioritizing investments for financing; (ii) the context and recomnmendations for mitigation or
prevention measures appropriate for different subproject types; (iii) the draft questionnaire to be used in the
screening process; and (iv) guidance on which local environmental issues should be included in the capacity
building and TA activities with communities and beneficiary groups. Screening using the questionnaire
would identify subprojects requiring impact mitigation strategies. These would be reviewed by an
environmental specialist (ES) attached to the PCU, in accordance with environmental criteria and analysis
procedures included in the OM. The agreed environmental assessment procedures for subprojects are
shown in Annex 13.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
The results of the environmental survey are discussed in Annex 13.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Various environmentally sensitive NGOs are participating in the recently established inter-institutional
working groups or support networks for the Project. These include: National Consortium for Training in
Sustainable Management of Renewable Natural Resources (CAMAREN), Cotacachi Organic Coffee,
Manabi Organic Coffee, Ecuatorian-Canadian Development Foundation (FECD), Cayambe Organic
Vegetables, Chimborazo Organic Vegetables, and MCCH. The Ministry of Environment, as a member of
the board of the PROLOCAL, has been actively involved in the preparation of terms of reference and
- 14 -



screening of consultants for the preparation of the EA.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Subprojects implementation would be monitored by the Project Coordination Unit and operational audits
performed on a sample basis by a specialized NGO.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was carried out on four representative Cantones of the six micro-regions to be
covered by the Project. The SA, which is summarized in Annex 14, broadly mapped potential stakeholders
and identified their prior development demands. The analysis of this information highlights that
unemployment, low local productivity, non-availability of credit and limited access for local decision
making are identified by local settlers as aggravating facts of their poverty condition.
The Project is expected to increase social inclusion by promoting local empowerment. It is designed to
strengthen the local capacity for the official decentralization process by improving the ability of local
organizations to formulate participatory development plans. The social impact of these activities is
expected to be positive, though the demand-driven nature of the process makes the results difficult to
predict at this time. The SA provided base-line indicators which will be used in the monitoring and
evaluation process and the periodic Beneficiary Assessments. The findings of the SA were an input for the
Project's Gender Policy, Communications Strategy and Participatory Planning Methodology.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
At the design and preparation phase, the social assessment methodology was mainly participatory, as it
actively involved informants of each micro-region and carried out 125 semi-structured interviews, and 25
workshops with the participation of 500 people. Beginning in year two of implementation, a beneficiary
assessment will be carried out, offering a high degree of involvement to all the stakeholder groups,
including project staff members, NGOs' workers, municipalities and local power executives, communities
and local organizations leaders, and, above all the rural poor themselves. This will allow the Project to be
permanently in line with the perceptions of all the key actors for project implementation, and confer to the
intended beneficiaries a strong capacity to monitor the implementation, evaluate the impacts of, and
participate in depth in the Project. The planning is to be done with participatory methodologies to promote
empowerment and reinforce social control and local governance. The objectives of the planning process are
to seek inclusion and equity in decision making and to increase local empowerment and stakeholders'
commitment.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Representatives of national NGO networks will be permanent members of the PROLOCAL National
Council, the board of the Project Coordination Unit. NGOs and other civil society organizations such as
handcrafters, irrigation water associations (Juntas de Regantes), Peasant Social Security (Seguro
Campesino), etc., on a demand-driven basis are likely to be the service providers for PROLOCAL's
implementation. Among governmental institutions, municipalities are perceived by the locals as political
rather than operational.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
- 15-



development outcomes?
PROLOCAL will promote alliances between local institutions and national and intemational NGOs.
National networks of service providers will be contracted to organize local correspondent networks and
train their members. Where local organizations lack institutional capacity, a local NGO would act as an
intermediary for implementation. When needed, the Project would also provide support to the BGs to
formalize their juridical status. Detailed eligibility criteria for the selection of BGs are to be found in the
Operational Manual.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The first level of monitoring of project activities with regard to the local effects will be made through the
Project monitoring system, essentially for physical and financial inputs/outputs. At the second level, the
beneficiary assessment (BA) would allow for the early detection of bias in Project implementation, using
information from the beneficiaries themselves. The BA would also be an instrument of evaluation, which
would measure to what extent the outputs of the Project were effectively received, accepted and owned by
the poor, and would assess the changes the Project introduced in social structures, capacities, relations,
conflicts, local powers, incomes, and inclusion.
The dissemination of the BA findings, for confirmation and re-orientation of Project activities and
stakeholders' roles, is planned through workshops at the local and regional level. The Project also envisions
a higher level evaluation of the expected social development outcomes in the form of an impact evaluation
study based on a longitudinal-control design. The aim of the system is to provide policy-makers with a
rigorous quantitative assessment of the effects of the Project's innovative approach on a number of
performance and impact indicators, as reported in the Logical Framework in Annex 1. Finally, periodic
WB evaluation missions will provide an additional input to the Project's performance assessment (Cfr.
Annex 12).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
P      _       : cy                       Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
To ensure that subprojects financed under Component C comply with the applicable safeguards, a simple
standardized questionnaire will be adopted to identify any need for mitigation measures. The Project
Coordination Unit would review and approve the measures proposed. If the necessary measures proved
unacceptable to the beneficiaries, the subproject would not be financed.
The Project also complies with OD 4.20 (indigenous people). By definition PROLOCAL does not intervene
in areas with indigenous communities (see annex 13, the Social Assessment and the Project files on the
- 16-



criteria for selection of the six micro-regions for additional information).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is designed to sustain its benefits in several ways. Its demand driven nature should assure that
TA and productive investments are chosen and designed by the beneficiaries. Project Components A and B
would build the capacities of these communities to manage their own affairs, and they will directly contract
for Project services and investments. Beneficiaries would provide counterpart funds for all productive
investments financed from Component C. The reliance on GOE budget resources are minimal, and which
would be mostly committed through altemative channels, like the Fondo de Solidariedad. All subprojects
will be screened for environmnental impacts, and mitigating measures taken if appropriate. If the subprojects
are successful, the beneficiary groups will have an economic incentive to sustain them.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Participation does not translate into         M         Equity and gender oriented methodologies for
equitable distribution among community                  community planning would be applied.
groups.
Service providers and communities do not      H         Participatory subprojects feasibility analysis
apply sustainability criteria to                        would be applied to ensure sustainability & a
subprojects.                                            training program for service providers would be
oriented to overcome this risk.
Service providers do not attract or retain    M         The Project would train personnel who would be
trained personnel.                                      directly involved in subproject support or
execution and collaborate with network of
NGOs & local universities to produce a larger
pool of candidates.
Stakeholders' collaboration may not be        M         Several incentive mechanisms, participation of
maintained for the duration of the Project              beneficiaries & transparency are built in the
implementation period.                                  system.
Local governments' and inter-sectoral         S         Participation of the beneficiaries and
networks' interest in the Project would not             communication strategy would encourage that
be maintained throughout the                            the interest in the Project is maintained.
implementation period.
Field technicians impose their views on       M         A training program in support of service
communities.                                            providers would be oriented to overcome this
risk.
Environmental projects cannot be justified    M         Environmental benefit valuation procedures
as their benefits cannot be quantified.                 would be formalized in project operation rules.
Environmental benefits do not translate       M         Mechanisms foreseen in the law regarding
into income benefits of poor population                 payment for environmental services would be
supported.
Political interference in selection, hiring   S         Clear selection procedures in project operations
and evaluation of project personnel and in              manual, and Bank supervision, to ensure that
awarding contracts.                                     project personnel are hired based on technical
criteria.
- 17 -



GOE is unable to mobilize sufficient          M         GOE can request the Bank to increase its
co-financing from International Partners                financing percentage to make up the difference,
but the total project activities would be reduced.
From Components to Outputs
Government administrative procedures          M         Bank supervisions would verify that
interfere with timely disbursement of                   disbursements to institutions involved and
financial resources.                                    beneficiaries are timely and geographically
targeted.
Lack of transparency on administration of     M         Clear administrative guidelines are implemented
financial resources.                                    and personnel is trained to comply with these
guidelines.
Counterpart funding not available as          M         Involvement of co-financing partners in project
projected.                                              activities.
Overall Risk Rating                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
If Project management becomes politicized, certain communities may be favored over others, and there
could be public complaints through the media. Elements of management may become corrupted into
collecting bribes from service providers (contractors) or the latter may do the same with beneficiaries
seeking access to project services, and this could damage the credibility of the Project. The Project has
designed maximum transparency into administrative processes and includes an independent complaint
resolution mechanism to discipline the system and resolve conflicts before they become more controversial.
Communities receiving grants for productive projects may misuse the funds. The Project has strong
auditing measures, but it also encourages public oversight by publishing in local newspapers a record of
every grant, so that irregularities can be reported.
At the national level, the exclusion of some regions may raise some controversy. While this Project is a
targeted intervention both in terms of regions and beneficiaries, there are other projects which cater to
specific population groups. Also, the lesson learned from the last World Bank rural development project
does not support national coverage.
At the local level, the possible controversial aspect of the Project is its gender targeting. This is justifiable
by the fact that, although women are over-represented among the poor, economic discrimination and social
norms often prevent them from actively participating in productive projects of this type. Also, the fact that
30% of women are targeted as beneficiaries is somewhat a reflection of the reality that at least the same
percentage of household heads are women in rural Ecuador.
- 18-



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
- Appointment of Core Professional Staff for NCU;
- Issuance of the Operational Manual;
-  Appointment of an independent consultant acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, to carry out a project impact evaluation baseline survey;
- Establishment of a satisfactory financial management system satisfactory to the Bank; and appointment
of the independent auditors.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
For procurement ,the PCU will not follow the national procedures contained in the laws and regulations
governing public procurement and the consulting laws (See Annex 6).
Disbursement reporting. The beneficiaries will only have to report to PROLOCAL the planning,
strengthening and subprojects expenditures through a simple statement of expenditures (Annex 6).
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
M 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- Operational Manual
- Financial Management System
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Morman Bentley Picci(  JJ hn Redwood                               Isabel 94e4ro
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director          LGettnt,MWniaigerurector
-19-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Key Pei*rmiance
Hierarchy oObjets                Iicator        '   Montrino g & Evaluatonti      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Protecting the poor and    Reduce the percentage of                              Political stability and social
setting the basis for human   target population below the   CAS Repor. Sector/Country  peace maintained.
developent an povery  povery lineby 5%.Surveys & studies; Living
development and poverty   poverty line by 5%.         Standard Measurement       Stability in financial and
human capital development   Reduce gender gap among    Surveys.                  economic conditions; and
and broadening opportunities  target population.      Offica Po        Map.      absence of social unrest.
for "excluded" groups.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To strengthen local        1. 60,000 households take    * Project reports (1, 2, 3, 4).  * Improvement of
quality of local services and   active role in elaborating own * MIS (1,2,3, & 4).  macro-economic stability.
quality of local.erodce   local development plans.                               * Conversion of
increase access to productive                        * Beneficiaries Assessments, empowerment into
assets to improve the      2. 150 local governments    (1, 4-8, & 9).            empor ment            .
well-being of poor households collaborate with beneficiaries  Impact Studies (4-9).  participatory development.
in selected micro-regions.    in generating development                          * Continuity of commitments
plans at the Parroquia &                              of governments at all level.
Canton levels.
* Availability of supporting
3. 80% of expected                                    infrastructure.
counterpart contributions
made available by local                               * Continuity and presence of
organizations.                                        active & better trained labor
force in the local regions.
4. 30% of individuals
participating in community                            * Mitigation of or
development planning process                          preparedness for natural
are women.                                            disasters.
5. 80% of beneficiaries are
poor.
6. Beneficiary households
improve access to productive
assets.
7. Beneficiary households
improve access to quality
rural development services.
8. Income levels of
beneficiaries of productive
subprojects improves by 15%.
9. Underemployment among
beneficiary households
reduced by 20%.
- 20 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I. Capacities of grass-root &   1.1 70% of organized    * MIS.                      * Participation will translate
second-and-third-tier                                                               in to a balanced distribution
organizations, and local    communities obtain legal    * Periodic reports on training, among community groups.
governments in planning &    sars
govemments in planning &    status.                            a~~~~~~~~ Stakeholders collaboration
implementing local          1.2 A total of $933,000     * Reports on technical      maintained.
development plans and       disbursed in support of local  assistance provided.
subprojects developed.      development planning and        ..                      * Local governments interest
identification of subprojects.  * Periodic reports on   i h  lnigadbidn
development plans submitted  in the planning and building
1.3 A total of 750         & implemented.               dopment lan
development plans at local                              development planmng
level, identifying at least  * Reports compiled by the  maintained.
2,250 subprojects elaborated.   PCU.                    * Beneficiaries' expectations
1.4 At least 80% of        Beneficiary Assessment.      match the Project's activities.
beneficiaries express                                   Agreement signed with
satisfaction with participatory                         Ministry of Social Welfare to
process.                                                facilitate legal status of
community organizations.
2. Local training and       2.1 400 local experts trained  * Periodic reports on training  * Trained personnel
information system          2.               r          conducted at all levels.    maintained by institutions
established to improve the    implementation.        o* Performance evaluations    and/or organizations
provision of local                                      and qualification of trained    providing local development
development services in each  2.2 Six local inter-sectoral   personnel.             related services.
micro-region.               networks certify 120 Project  * Reports of executing    * Field technician exhibit
technicians; 750 promoters;   agencies.                 commitment in discharging
1,440 male and 720 female    * Beneficiaries assessments   their duties and follow
leaders at the community    workshop.                   beneficiaries' views.
level; and 120 administrators  MIS.
trained to work & provide                               * Local governments and
in-service training for                                 inter-sectoral networks
executing organizations.                                establish and adopt
2.3 720 local organization                              methodology and maintain
receive a total of $1.2M in                             interest throughout
financing for institutional                            implementation period.
strengthening.
2.4. 720 local organizations
equipped.
- 21 -



3. Demand-driven             3.1 A total of $22 M         * Documents and reports on   * Administration of funds
co-financing (matching grant)  .              .           applcaton received and       through transparent system.
mechanisms for productive &             matchg grantsappoe
environmental investments   to implement 750 subprojects. approved.                    * Implementation of eligibility
and services established.    3.2 At least 70% of          * Implementation & progress  criteria, rules and
subprojects externally audited reports.                  methodology of operations.
each year are rated          a Beneficiaries assessments.   * Application for and
satisfactory.                     .                 . .   availability of enough
3.3 At least 80% of         * Regional offices supervision  candidates for technical staff.
beneficiaries of subprojects
express satisfaction with the   * MIS.
process.                    Evaluation reports by
3.4 At least 25% of         independent audit firm.
beneficiaries of subprojects
are women.
4. Project Coordination Unit  4.1 PROLOCAL Board          * Presidential decree.       * Absence of political
established and operational.   established.                   .                  .    interference in selection,
* Project personnel selection   hiin  an. vlaino
4.2 Core PCU staff selected,  & performance evaluations.  hProng and evaluation of
trained and evaluated                                     Prof contracts
annually according to criteria  * MIS.                    award of contracts
defined in the Operation     * Beneficiaries assessments.   * Lessons learned from the
Manual.                                                   Project are included in
.   .  * External evaluations and    national policy formulation.
4.3 Project MIS producing    audits.
monthly & quarterly progress                              Technicians needed for the
reports (financial,                                      regional offices are available
procurement, subprojects, and                             in respective localities.
annual operation plans).
4.4 Communication strategy
implemented, updated &
evaluated annually.
- 22 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
A - Local Development      US$ 2.98 million           Progress, disbursement audit  Conducive government
Planning                                        and supervision reports.   administrative procedures for
Planning                                                                        timely disbursements of
financial resources.
B - Local Development      US$ 7.43 million                                      Transparency in the
Services                                                                         administration of financial
resources.
C - Subprojects            US$25.47 million                                      Availability of counterpart
funding according to
projections.
D - Project Coordination Unit. US$5.83 million
Addendum to Annex 1: Trigger indicators to expand to additional micro-regions
*   Project Coordination Unit has been established and has adequate human and physical resources to comply with
its functions and responsibilities;
*   The Management Information System permits follow-up of Project implementation and assessment of
achievement of Project objectives;
e   100 development plans at the community level, and 20 plans at the Parroquia level have been prepared
through a participatory process;
*   80 subprojects at the community level, and 12 at the Parroquia level have been approved and are considered
satisfactory by an external auditor;
*   80 local experts have been trained and provide services to the communities and subprojects. 300 local leaders
and technicians have been trained and are fully committed to the Project activities;
*   Social and enviromnental assessment of any additional micro-region have been conducted prior to their
incorporation in PROLOCAL.
- 23 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.98 million
Local Development Planning
The component will promote social capital formation by supporting planning for local development at the
community, Parroquia and Cant6n levels as part of a participatory development planning process. This
activity would reinforce a recent law defining Parroquia responsibilities and requiring that each one prepare
an annual local development plan. Rural communities would identify priority subprojects, a subset of
which would be selected for streamlined preparation and execution. Community representatives would
participate in a similar planning process at a higher, Parroquia level where similar community subprojects
might be integrated in to Parroquia subprojects. By the same token, Cantones would prepare their
development plans which could include linkages to those of Parroquias and their subprojects. The
component will finance activities to allow at least 600 participating communities, 120 Parroquias and 30
Cantones to identify approximately 1,800 community subprojects, 360 parroquial subprojects and 90
cantonal subprojects.
PROLOCAL will contract with national NGOs or their networks to conduct an inventory/evaluation of
local organizations and other social actors. Eligibility for participation in the Project would depend on: (i)
evidence of existence for at least one year; (ii) field inspection to ratify their existence, socio-territorial
nature and capacity to gather membership; and (iii) field inspection to ascertain that member families meet
eligibility criteria as target population. At the same time a base-line survey would measure their social
capital and execution capacities. A capacity-strengthening plan would also be prepared for each eligible
organization/entity, parallel to coordination and planning activities.
Local Development Planning will be implemented through three sub-components: (i) Coordination (or
Concertaci6n) & partnership; (ii) Planning and project preparation; and (iii) Information sharing.
A.1 Coordination and partnership (CP). This sub-component will finance communications activities to
filly familiarize the PROLOCAL target groups with the Project objective, strategy, opportunities,
methodologies, criteria and procedures. Grass-roots organizations, local NGOs and local experts, families
and juntas will be given the tools to coordinate planning at the community, parroquial and cantonal level
and to create integrated projects linked at different levels. The sub-component will finance workshops at
the parroquial and cantonal level and activities to prepare and disseminate methodological guidelines.
Complementary communications activities financed under this sub-component include: (i) a promotion
campaign for the Project; and (ii) an awareness campaign to address various forms of social inequities and
human rights for men and women. Details of these activities are included in a comnmunications strategy, a
summary of which is provided in Annex 11. PROLOCAL would contract out the implementation of the
strategy to a single specialist firm.
A.2 Planning and project preparation. The subcomponent will support local actors at the community,
parroquial and cantonal level to prepare participatory, local development plans and subprojects. Analyzing
local resources, systems, capacities, problems, solutions, opportunities, and development hypothesis, local
actors will identify subproject profiles, rank them according to established priorities and prepare execution
plans. Measures are included in the PROLOCAL Operational Manual to ensure that women's needs and
priorities are taken into account and reflected in development plans and subproject profiles.
- 24 -



Under this subcomponent, PROLOCAL will sign agreements with communities to finance their preparation
of local development plans. In most cases these communities and higher-level organizations will need to
contract local or national consultant service providers to help them. Second-tier organizations andjuntas
parroquiales could consider conmmunity plans when making their own. These in turn could be consolidated
by third-tier organizations and municipalities into cantonal or municipal plans. While this three-step
process may not always occur in practice, the sub-component will try to promote it where conditions are
conducive. In response to the local planning process, subprojects would be prepared, analyzed and
eventually implemented at any of the three levels. PROLOCAL will provide local actors with guidelines for
participatory, local development planning and the methodology to prepare subproject profiles. National and
certified local consultants will have already been trained in these methodologies (Para 2.1 below) and will
help their clients obtain financing for eligible subprojects from NGOs and Government programs (para. 3.2
below).
A.3 Information sharing. This subcomponent aims to systematically organize and disseminate relevant
information in a timely manner at the local and national level about PROLOCAL activities, promote
feed-back and discussion, and allow relevant organizations, development networks, technical staff, policy
makers, researchers, students and the general public to take well-informed decisions. The subcomponent
will finance workshops, reports, brochures, radio transmission, events, special studies (marketing,
engineering designs, etc.), databases, maps, methodologies, progress reports, monitoring reports, audit
reports, and supervision & evaluation reports, among others. This information will be shared with Project
participants under the assumption that major Project risks can be mitigated by improved information flow
and timely feedback from concemed stakeholders, while increasing local empowerment and ownership.
Project Component 2 - US$7.43 million
Local development Services
A critical first step in project implementation is to train the various local stakeholders of the Project, so that
they can successfully play their roles. The component will use a tiered sequence of activities beginning with
a "train the trainers" phase. The PCU would first contract competitively with nationally organized
networks of NGOs with experience in training their own members. These groups would: (a) survey the
existing technical skills in the target micro-regions and prepare capacity gap analysis; (b) prepare and
implement training programs to address local gaps and pass on the Project methodologies to be followed
during implementation; (c) promote the formation of local networks of the technicians trained, certifying
their capabilities to participate in the next phase of project implementation. In phase two of the training
these certified technicians would train the leadership and technicians of the organizations which would
identify and implement subprojects. In a third phase, which is not necessarily sequential, these certified
local consulting service providers would also provide technical assistance to local governments at the
community, Parroquia and Cant6n level to promote democratic participation and transparent management
and administration.
Component B will be implemented through four sub-components: (i) strengthening of local consulting
service providers; (ii) strengthening of human capital of grass-roots & second/third-tier organizations; (iii)
strengthening of human capital of local governments and promotion of democratic processes; and (iv)
establishment of an information system on prices, technologies and market opportunities (ECUALOCAL).
B. 1 Strengthening of local consulting service providers. The subcomponent aims to develop a cadre of
local technical service providers, required by local implementing agencies of the Project. Field studies show
that local technicians would most likely require training on: (i) natural resource management, conflict
resolution, water management for irrigation and human consumption; (ii) finance and agro-business
administration; (iii) local development planning; (iv) subproject analysis and management; and (v)
- 25 -



social/gender equity. In all about 120 planning and project preparation specialists, 60 project analysts, 120
accountants, 100 professionals in various fields (agriculture, irrigation, natural resources, marketing,
agro-industry, nutrition, etc.) would be trained. In addition to the training of individuals, this
subcomponent would seek to develop social capital by strengthening the social relationships and
commercial linkages between local service providers by promoting local networks. These would serve as a
combination of affinity group and professional association to develop a common view of local problems
and their solutions. Individual activities could be coordinated and mutually supportive.
B. 2 Strengthening of human capital of grass-roots & second/third-tier organizations. This
subcomponent aims at strengthening the management and technical capacity within existing local and
second-tier organizations. The social assessment showed that the organizational tradition of these groups
requires: (i) leaders able to mobilize social capital, to guide membership to concrete action proposals, and
to negotiate with external parties; (ii) trained members with basic accounting, administration, procurement
and secretarial skills; and (iii) promoters/facilitators able to guide reflection processes, to organize action
initiatives and to facilitate liaison between organization leaders and external technicians/experts. When
endowed with this minimum human capital, organizations will be more likely to develop longer term
development processes that extend beyond the Project's life, to negotiate financial resources with a wider
range of partners, and to mobilize new resources for their development. The Project will sign contracts (
convenios) with implementing agencies which will employ certified local or national consulting service
providers. These consultants would be selected by implementing agencies to provide in-service training to
the latter's leaders, technical staff and promoters. About 120 local project managers, 750 local promoters
(extensionists or facilitators), 1,200 leaders (men) and 650 leaders (women) would be trained. The
sub-component will finance four clusters of activities: (i) basic equipment & training to those organizations
that satisfactorily complete the institutional strengthening prograrn; (ii) training of leaders, administrative
support staff and facilitators on technical aspects requested by organizations; (iii) training of female leaders
on local development issues, democratic processes, conflict resolution, and negotiation skills; and (iv)
on-site assistance and training of accounting and administration for the organizations executing the
subprojects.
B.3 Strengthening of human capital of local governments and promotion of democratic processes.
Local governments can play a more important role in supporting development by more actively
coordinating and participating in planning processes and promoting democratic initiatives. To properly
undertake these activities, local governments need new leadership and trained technical teams. To finance
this training, the Project will sign contracts which these local governments (community, Parroquia and
Cant6n) which will employ certified local or national consultants. About 750 local organizations, 120
juntasparroquiales and 30 consejos cantonales would receive this support. The training program would
involve: (i) educating consejos cantonales and juntas parroquiales on development issues and public
administration; (ii) provision of basic equipment & training as a reward to those local governments that
satisfactorily completed the institutional strengthening program; and (iii) funding of expenses for
carrying-out municipal and parroquial initiatives to debate and execute democratic processes such as
environmental regulations, campaigns to promote civil rights, collective responsibilities, social organization
and land-use planning or ordenamiento territorial.
B.4 Information system on prices, technologies and market opportunities, ECUALOCAL. This
program is aimed at widening opportunities for local development and facilitating local development
planning/subproject preparation processes, through access to useful and updated inforrnation. The system
would be based on information needs of stakeholders, namely: social/local organizations, service providers
and local governments. The system will collect, examine and diffuse information on prices, opportunities,
technologies and territories involved. The system will use on the one hand popular media channels to
provide previously digested information, and on the other hand modem and economic tele-centers to access
- 26 -



intemet information. In essence, two sub-systems would be involved: (i) ECUAGRO, run by MAG and
NGOs , which contains useful information on agricultural production and competitiveness (production
alternatives, appropriate technologies, market opportunities, etc.); and (ii) INFOPLAN, run by
ODEPLAN, which includes basic territorial information for decision-making of governments and local
development institutions.
Project Component 3 - US$ 25.47 million
Subprojects
Focus group interviews, workshops and research by the social assessment have confirmed that communities
in the target rural areas share a common view of their situation. They believe that a key element for their
development is access to productive and marketing activities in their communities. They want to improve
the quality and diversification of their production, and its access to larger markets through improved
infrastructure and commercial links to urban centers.
The component will improve access to public good assets by establishing a demand-driven, matching-grant
fund to finance: technical assistance, infrastructure, productive capacity of socio-territorial organizations,
and enviromnental investments. Technical screening of identified subprojects would be undertaken by
Project technical personnel at the regional level, according to criteria in the Operating Manual, technical
reference tables and an output-input price database. Each subproject would be implemented on the basis of
a contract between the Regional Office of PROLOCAL and the beneficiary group (BG). When BGs lack
the necessary legal status, tripartite contracts will be signed including a third institutions, typically an
NGO. BGs would be responsible for mobilizing counterpart funds from beneficiaries, administration of
funds, contracting, supervision of subproject implementation. Project administration personnel at the
regional level would monitor subproject expenditure accounts. The component would finance around 750
community subprojects, 150 parroquial subprojects, and 30 inter-parroquial subprojects.
Subproject eligibility criteria -- Subproject proposals would need to meet the following criteria in order to
qualify for grant financing: (a) they would benefit the general public or community; (b) they would
generate direct or indirect employment or income to beneficiary groups; (c) they would be identified,
prioritized, prepared, negotiated, implemented and maintained by the beneficiaries; (d) they would be
co-financed by beneficiaries; (e) productive investments would be technically, economically, and
environmentally sustainable; and (f) they would comply with the other conditions of the Operations Manual
(OM). Beneficiary groups would not be eligible to receive financing for a second project until they had
successfully completed the first one.
Types of Subprojects - the following types of subprojects would be financed under this component: (a)
public infrastructure such as roads, health posts etc.; (b) productive community assets which create
employment, diversify production, and increase income (including value added processing and marketing
which benefit socio-territorial organizations and their membership); (c) environmental and natural resource
management investments which preserve biodiversity, irnprove the environment, promote sustainable
development of natural resources (including erosion control, soil restoration, protection of water sources,
better use of agricultural chemicals, and pollution control); and (d) investments to strengthen social capital
by building networks and links between local government and civil society to deepen the democratic
process. (including TA to help communities improve democratic processes through improved citizen
participation, local regulations and enforcement, strengthen human rights, improve local information
systems and dissemination): and (e) training and technical assistance.
Levels of Execution - Subprojects will have varying levels of technical and administrative complexity.
Local development plans will be prepared by three levels of political jurisdiction: community (smallest),
parroquia, and cant6n (largest) within the target micro-regions. These plans would identify and prioritize
- 27 -



subprojects to be implemented by the corresponding political jurisdictions.
Subproject financing criteria - The component would fmnance from a minimum of 60 percent up to a
maximum of 100 percent of subproject costs, as per the cofinancing matrix below. In any case the amount
would be limited to a maximum of US$800 per beneficiary family. Subprojects at the community level
would have total financing limited to US$12,600, at the parroquial level to US$63,000, and at the cantonal
level to US$252,000.
Investment Categories to be financed with Matching Grants.
Expense                       Description                        Grant            Other Financing Sources
category                                                      Contribution
Works          Community Infrastructure (CI) -                      Up to 80%   -Beneficiary contributions (goods
Plant/storage/office buildings, training centers,               and/or labor).
irrigation canals, animal production and                        -Third party contributions.
aquaculture facilities, demonstration/trial                     -Credit (when available and
greenhouse facilities, etc.                                     accessible) for financially feasible
enterprises.
Environmental Works (EW) - Waste recycling          Up to 90%   -Beneficiary contributions (goods
and/or treatment facilities, community forestry                 and/or labor)
nurseries, terraces and other soil conservation                 -Third party contributions.
works.
Social Works (SW) - Rehabilitation of roads and
bridges outside protected and/or environmentally
fragile areas.
Other Works (OW) related to social positive
externalities such as commodity quality enhancing
facilities (e.g. coffee, cocoa, rise) when financial
benefits are not captured directly by producers.
Durable Goods  Investment Goods (IG) - Machinery and equipment      Up to 60%   -Beneficiary contributions.
or Assets      for associative enterprises, equipment for                       -Third party contributions.
institutions and organizations, fences.                         -Credit (when available and
accessible) for financially feasible
enterprises.
Animals or Insemination Capsules (Al) for genetic
improvements of community herds and/or livestock
banks.
Plants and Seeds (PS), or vegetative material, for  Up to 100%   -Beneficiary contributions.
community reforestation and pasture improvements                -Third party contributions.
and watershed
improvement/management/protection.
Expendable      Training/operation Inputs (TI) - Start-up (one-time)  Up to 80%   -Beneficiary contributions.
Goods          agricultural and non-agricultural inputs for                     -Third party contributions.
demonstration/trial farms or activities,
training/workshop materials.
- 28 -



Operation Inputs (O) - Start-up (one-time)      Up to 60%  -Beneficiary contributions.
agricultural and non-agricultural inputs when local,        -Third party contributions.
regional or national credit sources are not                 -Credit when available and
accessible.                                                 accessible.
Services      Technical Assistance (TA) - Preinvestment,      Up to 100%  -Beneficiary contributions.
subproject promotion/awareness building,                    -Third party contributions.
organization, legal counseling, technology transfer,
start-up operations, training.
One-Time Services (OS) - Cattle insemination, deep
plowing of degraded soils, land leveling, special
studies/inventories/surveys, laboratory analyses,
publicity/market/communication services, special
training and education.
Approval and Supervision of Subprojects - The Local Investment Fund will be administered in
accordance with the directives contained in three documents: (i) Operations Manual (OM); (ii) methodology
for evaluating the financial, economic, social and environmental benefits of subprojects; and (iii) standards
for the design of projects.
Subprojects would be identified and prepared through local planning activities financed by Component A.
The RCUs would review and confirm that subprojects are prepared in accordance with the Project's
Operational Manual. Approvals by RCUs would be in writing and published in newspapers. To mitigate
politicization of the selection process, the OM would prohibit discrimination in the selection of beneficiaries
or service providers based on political affiliation, religion or race. There would also be a formal complaint
process by which participants could use an ombudsman to present their case to the Managing Council of
PROLOCAL. The OM would include the rules for operating the component process. Supervision of
subproject implementation would first and foremost be the responsibility of the local BGs. Disbursements
by the Project Management Units (NCU or RCU) would be made on a tranched basis, with each sponsor
group providing evidence of the proper expenditure of the prior advance to justify the next one. The first
disbursement would have to be covered by a performance guarantee from a third party. Regional Project
staff would make sample field visits to verify that this documentation was correct. A technical consulting
firm would be hired on a longer term contract to audit subproject results and impacts.
Project Component 4 - US$5.83 million
Project Coordination Unit
The component will finance costs for consultant services and equipment to carry out managerial, financial
and technical coordination through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will be composed of a
small National Coordination Unit (NCU) and up to six Regional Coordination Units (RCUs). The PCU will
report to a board representing the public and private sectors. Core staff at the central level will include an
Executive Director, a Technical Coordinator, an Administrative Coordinator with financial management
functions, a Procurement Specialist, three technical specialist for the components, a specialist in M&E, a
specialist in communications, a specialist in gender (shared with PROGENIAL project) and a system
specialist. Staff at the regional level include a regional coordinator and three technical specialists. A
detailed description on functions, responsibilities and associated procedures is to be found in the PIP and
OM.
Planning Annual Implementation Plans (AlPs). AlPs would be prepared by the NCU and RCUs. The
plans would reflect the activities, goals and objectives of each component and the planned outputs including
- 29 -



the financial and human resources needed to complete the plans. The AlPs will be the principal tool for
coordination within each unit and between the NCU and RCUs. AlPs would have to be presented before
the new budget year begins. These plans would first analyze how much of the previous plan was actually
accomplished and recommend changes to overcome shortfalls, if justified. The annual implementation plans
would be approved by the PROLOCAL Board.
Financial Management. The administrative unit in the NCU will administer and control financial flows.
Each regional unit will be staffed with a financial and procurement specialist. Detailed financial operation
procedures are provided in the OM, which defines the processes for budgeting, accounting, treasury,
internal control and auditing for both the Regional and NCUs. Consultants will be hired to design and
install a project management information system. The Project's Plan of Accounts would be broad and
flexible enough to accommodate the needs of the Government's budget (SIGEF) and audit agencies, the
Bank, and co-financiers.
LACI financial PMRs would be generated from this system and sent to the Bank quarterly. The NCU
would carry out the annual budgeting coordination with the Ministry of Finance to assure timely release of
counterpart funds. The NCU would operate the Project's Special Account and each RCU would have a
Project account in a local bank. Disbursements for component C (Subprojects) would be made to a bank
account for each subproject opened by the beneficiary group. Annual project financial reports would be
audited by a private accounting firm and under terms of reference, both acceptable to the Bank, and
presented within four months after the accounting period.
Procurement - Each RCU would have a specialist that would process its procurement and monitor local
organizations and implementing agencies responsible for procurement on subprojects. Detailed procurement
procedures are included in the OM for national, regional and local procurement. These procedures include
how each type of procurement will be evaluated and selected with associated evaluation tables and
methodology. Contract management arrangements for each type of contract are also defined.
Personnel - The PCU is expected to implement a rigorous system of personnel selection, evaluation and
performance incentives. Selection of personnel will be carried out by extemal institutions (private firm,
NGO or development institution) contracted for this purpose. The firms will interview, evaluate and
nominate candidates for a short list to be confirmed by the PROLOCAL Board. Annual performance
evaluations would be conducted by external firms based on benchmarks for each position included in the
terms of reference.
Monitoring and Evaluation - In view of the nature of the Project's approach, and its importance for the
country's rural development strategy, attention has been paid to design a rigorous monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system. The envisioned M&E system will consist of four subcomponents: (i) a
monitoring system, which will track the Project's progress on a set of process indicators and feed into
management's decision-making; (ii) a beneficiary assessment module, which will provide on an annual
basis the target group's perceptions and reactions about Project progress; (iii) an impact evaluation
baseline survey, which will quantify the impact which can be attributed to the Project; and (iv) auditing and
supervision missions, which will review the technical and fiduciary aspects on a six-month basis, or more
often if required.
Project Management Information System (MIS) - The PROLOCAL PCU would prepare, install and
operate a project MIS. The system would consist of accounting; human resources; subprojects;
procurement; risk management; planning; internal communication; and external communications.
- 30 -



Risk Management - Management at the national and regional levels would be responsible for defining and
implementing the risk management mechanism for the Project. This would include the processes and tools
for: (i) identifying and describing internal and external potential risk events; (ii) quantifying potential
Project risks -- the probability and impact of the potential risk event; (iii) risk response preparation which
defines potential risk mitigation measures; and, (iv) risk response control which focuses on monitoring
potential risk, regularly updating the risk management plan -- archiving outdated risks and adding new ones
and continuing the cycle from risk identification through risk mitigation. One staff member in each
coordination unit would carry out risk management functions by working with each technical specialist and
other teams members to update and present the risk management plan at the coordination unit's regular
coordination meetings.
Communications - A specific communication strategy will support PROLOCAL implementation (see
annex 11). A Bank communications audit has been carried out as part of the Project activities, and a
communication strategy acceptable to the Bank has been prepared by a specialized consultant. The strategy
supports a communication program to: (i) disseminate infonnation about the Project's objectives, its
implementation strategy and the eligibility criteria; (ii) establish a two-way channel to motivate
stakeholders and ensure beneficiaries' ownership; and (iii) build a mechanisms for dialogue and exchange of
information across the PROLOCAL micro-regions, which will play an important role in helping translate
this diversity into policies in tune with local realities. Accordingly, the Project will show an important
degree of flexibility in order to incorporate the peculiarities of each individual community. While most
creative activities and graphic design and production will be contracted out, a senior communication
specialist in the PCU will manage and supervise the process.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Local        Foreign         Total
Pr*ctCo.t By00000  CompoMnt                  US 004; 000004  $millton    US $m,llion    US $million
A. Local Development Planning                                   2.16           0.64           2.80
B. Local Development Services                                   4.87           2.10           6.97
C. Subprojects                                                 20.39           3.68         24.07
D. Project Coordination Unit                                    4.43           0.68           5.11
Total Baseline Cost                                            31.85           7.10          38.95
Physical Contingencies                                         0.50           0.18           0.68
Price Contingencies                                            1.73           0.35           2.08
Total Project Costs                34.08           7.63          41.71
Front-end fee                       0.25           0.25
Total Financing Required                 34.08           7.88          41.96
Local        Foreign         Total
; 4 0000; 0000000X:f; 0 00 Proje:t Cost Sy jCteoryt00tt0000 tt  US Smilion  tUS $million    US $rmillion
Goods                                                             0.65            1.76          2.41
Consultants Services and Training                                 8.11            2.02         10.13
Subprojects                                                      20.39            3.60         23.99
Operating Costs                                                   3.91            0.00          3.91
PPF                                                               1.02            0.25          1.27
Total Project Costs       34.08            7.63         41.71
Front-end fee                       0.25           0.25
Total Financing Required        34.08            7.88         41.96
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 41.96 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 60.06% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 32 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Methodology
Analytical work initially involved local development planning and feasibility analysis workshops in
representative cantones of selected micro-regions. In planning workshops, potential subprojects were
identified according to basic methodological guidelines considered in component C. In feasibility analysis
workshops, area coverage, physical scale, investment costs, revenues or benefits and operational costs were
estimated on a preliminary basis, with groups of potential beneficiaries, local technicians, and personnel of
key local actors, such as technical colleges and credit and saving cooperatives. Prices and technical
parameters provided in workshops were revised and validated based on qualified information sources.
Without project "situations" of identified subprojects were revised and/or reconstructed with technicians
and other qualified informants in the micro-regions involved. Finally, revised technical parameters and
financial budgets of identified subprojects were incorporated in a Farmod model. Feasibility was analyzed
at various levels: area unit (for crops and plantations); activity unit (herd for live-stock activities);
production unit (farm, enterprise or firm, plant or processing unit); and subproject (when various farms,
fimns or plants are involved. For further details, see reports and models in the Project files.
Aggregated results were estimated based on: execution level, subproject category and micro-region. As
stated in the Subprojects component, execution levels are: community, parroquia and inter-parroquia or
cant6n. Analyzed subproject categories include: productive subprojects; environmental/natural resource
management subprojects; and social investment subprojects. In general, productive subprojects include:
integration or network building subprojects; agriculture subprojects (which include agroforestry and
aquaculture); natural resource and environment subprojects (which include forestry); and agribusiness and
service supply subprojects. According to Project area and population, the selected micro-regions are:
Regi6n Sur de Manabi, Zona Occidental de Los Rios, Estribaciones Centrales de Los Andes, Regi6n
Oriental de Loja, Cuenca Alta del Rio Jubones and Cuenca del Rio El Angel.
Results
Subproject Funds. On average, analyzed subprojects would require around: US$400 per family of
community investments; US$120 per family of working capital; US$30 per family of private investments;
and US$80 per family of technical assistance (pre-investment, promotion, organization and start-up
technical assistance). On average, inter-parroquia or cant6n subprojects would involve around: 400
families; US$160,000 community investments; US$48,000 working capital; US$12,000 private
investments; and US$32,000 of technical assistance. Parroquia subprojects would involve around: 100
families; US$40,000 community investments; US$12,000 working capital; US$3,000 private investments;
and US$8,000 of technical assistance. Lastly, assuming 5 beneficiary communities per Parroquia involved,
community subprojects would involve around: 20 families; US$8,000 direct investments; US$2,400
working capital; US$600 private investments; and US$1,600 of technical assistance. Larger investments
would take place in Estribaciones Centrales de Los Andes; followed by Regi6n Sur de Manabi and
Cuenca del Rio Jubones.
Employment and incremental financial income. Family employment -indirectly remunerated through
production gains- was significantly high in organic agriculture and artisanal sugar-cane processing
subprojects. These subprojects were identified in Estribaciones Centrales de Los Andes. However, they are
relevant in all micro-regions (especially organic agriculture). In terms of execution level, community
subprojects generated around 2,100 person-years equivalent; parroquia subprojects, around 1,500
person-years equivalent; and inter-parroquia subprojects around 200 person-years equivalent. In terms of
- 33 -



subproject categories, agricultural/agroforestry subprojects generated 2,100 person-years equivalent;
agribusiness/service subprojects, 1,500 person-years equivalent; and integration subprojects, around 200
person-years equivalent. According to micro-regions, subprojects in Estribaciones Centrales de Los Andes
generated 3,300 person-year equivalent. In terms of incremental income per family, subprojects at different
execution levels do not differ much (US$240-3 10/family). In terns of subproject categories,
agribusiness/service subprojects generated US$650/family; and agriculture/agroforestry, around
US$310/family. Among micro-regions, Estribaciones Centrales de Los Andes averaged US$480/family
and Cuenca del Rio Jubones, US$280/family. In contrast, Regi6n Oriental de Loja averaged
US$80/family.
Employment associated to Investments. In terms of investment-related family labor (major investment of
target population), the most demanding subprojects include: pasture improvement, reforestation and
agroforestry. Most demanding micro-regions are: Cuenca del Rio Jubones and Regi6n Sur de Manabi.
Subproject Feasibility. As shown in Tables I and 2, the most feasible subprojects were: organic
agriculture and artisanal sugar-cane processing. In terms of execution level, community subprojects showed
higher economic and financial Net Present Values. On average, conmnunity subprojects yield a financial
NPV of US$1,400/family. In terms of micro-regions, higher feasibility indicators were found in
Estribaciones Centrales de Los Andes and Regi6n Sur de Manabi. On average, subprojects in such
regions yield financial NPV of US$2,300/family and US$ 1,000/family, respectively. Finally,
agribusiness/service-supply showed higher economic and a financial Net Present Values. On average, these
subprojects yield a financial NPV of US$2,800/farnily. However, as shown below, they are fragile in termns
of potential benefit reductions.
Aggregate Net Benefits. For projection purposes, aggregate economic benefits and costs were calculated
for one, two, and three rounds of subprojects similar to the ones herewith described. The analyzed
subprojects would generate around US$17 million of economic benefits in present value and reach around
20,000 families. However, subproject failures may significantly reduce these benefits. Considering total
Project costs, one round of subprojects would generate US$1.9 million of discounted net benefits. Required
local investment funds would be around US$17.8 million. Two rounds of subprojects would generate
US$18.8 million of discounted net benefits. Required local investment funds would be around US$24.8
million. Three rounds of subprojects would generate US$35.7 million of discounted net benefits. Required
local investment funds would be around US$37.2 million. Project economic and financial NPV and IRR
could have been calculated with available information. However, considering the lack of certainty of overall
Project performance, as it is largely determined by beneficiaries during implementation, they were not
included as feasibility reference indicators.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Costs. Total Project costs were included for the economic feasibility analysis. Investment and recurrent
costs of potential subprojects were obtained from the economic and financial analysis in the Project's files.
Base costs (with physical contingencies) relative to planning and management for local development, as
well as strengthening of local service providers and rural financial systems, were extracted from Cost
Summary Tables in the Project's files.
Benefits. Benefits generated by local investment subprojects include: revenues from increased production
and value added; increased natural assets such as commercial and conservation forests; and improved
health reflected in the reduction of treatrnent costs. Non-quantified benefits include inter alia: increased
water supply and soil conservation due to proper watershed management; greater social cohesion or social
capital; increased local development capacities or human capital; and expanded rural financial markets.
Non-quantified negative extemalities may also be generated, such as social conflicts associated with
- 34 -



community priority setting, community subproject selection and subproject failures. Financial revenues
generated by local investment subprojects include inter alia: revenues from increased production and value
added; revenues from the potential sale of forest products; reduced family spending as a result of a
reduction in medical treatment costs.
Main Assumptions:
*   Future economic financial benefits and cost flows were discounted based on a 12% annual rate. The
projected analysis period was 20 years.
*   Shadow prices for family labor were calculated for one micro-region on the coast and one in the
highlands. The average shadow price for family labor would be 70% of financial or market price. Price
distortions for other goods and services were not significant.
*   Family labor use within family labor availability was not included as an operation cost. Family labor
use in excess of family labor availability was valued at financial or market prices. Financial deficits for
operation were covered with short-term credit. Their average real interest rate was estimated at 20%
per annum. Medium-term credit was considered for capital investments of individual families (such as
cattle) based on: a 5-year repayment period; and a 20% annual real interest rate.
*   Fiscal revenues would essentially be the increased value-added tax generated as a result of increased
investment and operation costs induced by the Project. Value-added tax was estimated at 10% of value
without changes during the evaluation period. Total Project costs excluding credit funds would be the
fiscal cost for the Government.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Subproject Sensitivity. Considering the relatively high risk of failure on subprojects generated by
demand-driven investment projects, switching values of benefit reductions were calculated for analyzed
subprojects. As shown in Tables 1 and 2, environmental and social subprojects are very robust in terms of
economic and financial feasibility, since estimated benefits could eventually be reduced by 40-90%. In case
of forestation subprojects, this is essentially due to the long period elapsed between plantation (investment)
and full forest growth (cumulative benefits -including carbon captured- in the form of wood). On the
negative side, environmental and social subprojects do not generate incremental family income or
employment, and thus contribute marginally to poverty reduction.
Certain agricultural and agroindustrial subprojects are very robust in financial terms and moderately robust
in economic terms, namely: organic agriculture and artisanal sugar-cane processing. This is essentially due
to the high contribution of recurrent family labor. Estimated economic benefits can be reduced around 30%
and still be feasible. In general a 30% margin is acceptable, however, in organic agriculture subprojects
-which are essentially technical assistance subprojects- it implies a challenging (but feasible) 70% adoption
rate. There is also a service supply subproject which is moderately robust -benefits could also be reduced
by 30%- namely associative input supply and technical assistance. As in the case of organic agriculture,
this is essentially due to the production cost-saving nature of the subproject, and the relatively small
administrative structure. In this case, a 30% margin implies a reasonable 70% participation rate -in the
analyzed case, there is a target population of 240 small producers.
Besides the above-mentioned cases, most analyzed processing/service-supply subprojects appear fragile.
They would have feasibility problems if estimated benefits were reduced by 2-20%. In contrast, feasible
agricultural subprojects seem to be moderately robust -estimated benefits could be reduced by 30-50%.
Overall Sensitivity and Risk Mitigation Measures. Considering aggregate benefits of analyzed
subprojects, the Project switching value would be 12% benefit reduction value in terms of economic
- 35 -



feasibility, and 21% benefit reduction in terms of financial feasibility. These reduced margins of benefit
reductions translate into reduced margins of acceptable subproject failures. Thus the Project should be
designed so as to minimize subproject failure risks. Participatory planning and participatory subproject
preparation (already incorporated in the Project design) significantly contribute to ensuring social
sustainability of future subprojects. However, other complementary mechanisms are necessary.
Appropriate technical support during subproject preparation, especially in complex subprojects, would
allow for on-site beneficiary training as well as better subproject screening and design, thereby increasing
subprojects' technical sustainability. Finally, subproject co-financing arrangements would allow for healthy
project/beneficiary risk sharing, especially in subproject categories which appear to be more fragile.
Table 1. Financial Feasibility of Potential Subprojects (US$ of May 2000)
Category      Type            Analyzed Subprojects                                  NPV      IRR   Switching
(%)  value (%)
Productive     Those          Rio Jubones - Cattle Improvement, Milk Processing   839,887       28          12
intended to    Rio Jubones - Onions, Production and Marketing       4979         55          13
integrate      Lo a - Peanuts, Production and Marketing             45,533       93          13
production,    Los Rios - Rice Production, Processing and Marketing    1,070,282  162         6
processing     Manabi - Improved Coffee Production and Processing    2,202,390   45          40
and/or         Estribaciones - Coffee Post harvest and Marketing   498,464      112          11
marketing      Rio El Angel - Value Added for Agricultural Products  82,350      83          28
Rio El Angel - Textiles Production and Marketing     24,010      37           19
Agriculture -   Rio Jubones - Cattle Improvement                  (189,457)       7         (10)
Aquaculture    Rio Jubones - Trout production                       29,845       25          19
Manabi- Com Seed Multiplication                     196,808      46          52
Manabi - Agroforestry                             1,858,537      62          54
Estribaciones - Organic Com Production            4,878,001    >200          93
Estribaciones - Baby Banana Production              436,924      93          28
Rio El Angel - Greenhouse Horticulture              914,990      75          45
Rio El Angel - Irrigation Infrastructure          (112,597)       9         (10)
Rio El Angel - Cattle Improvements                  158,20       17           15
Agroindustry   Loja - Balanced Foodstuff based on Com               88,085       64           7
- Services     Los Rios - Rural Tourism                             27,659       20           2
Los Rios - Inputs Supply and Technical Assistance   204,450      56          28
Estribaciones - Com Processing and Marketing        611,604     119            8
Estribaciones - Citrics Processing                1,327,131      23           17
Estribaciones - Artisanal Sugar-cane Processing   4,708,648    >200          81
Environment  Natural          Rio Jubones - Reforestation, Watershed Management    1,241,650    35          93
Resources      Manabi- Caiia Guadiua for Riverlands Protection     629,303       41          86
Manabi- Reforestation Watershed Management        2,334,964      36          91
Estribaciones - Reforestation in Coffee Areas        48,736      17          45
Estribaciones - Reforestation in Sugar-cane Areas    19,779      17          50
Rio El Angel - Reforestation of Degraded Lands    1,004,864      33          91
Social         Infrastructure   Rio El Angel - Potable Water Supply                59,988       31          50
Switching values represent percentage reductions of annual benefits which generate a NPV close to zero.
- 36 -



Table 2. Economic Feasibili  of Potential Sub rojects (US$ of May 2000)
Category      Type            Analyzed Subprojects                                  NPV    IRR   Switching
(%) value (%)
Productive    Those           Rio Jubones - Cattle Improvement, Milk Processing   725,136      26
intended to    Rio Jubones - Onions, Production and Marketing       22,567       30           6
integrate      Loja - Peanuts, Production and Marketing             18,023      48            5
production,    Los Rios - Rice Production, Processing and Marketing    1,033,063  157         6
processing     Manabi - Improved Coffee Production and Processing    2,202,390   45          40
and/or         Estribaciones - Coffee Post harvest and Marketing   381,952      90            9
marketing      Rio El Angel - Value Added for Agricultural Products  16,021      29           6
Rio El Angel - Textiles Production and Marketing      6,533      19           5
Agriculture -   Rio Jubones - Cattle Improvement                  (351,201)       2         (17)
Aquaculture    Rio Jubones - Trout production                       (8,120)       8          (5
Manabi- Com Seed Multiplication                     139,185      38          37
Manabi - Agroforestry                             1,508,660    >200          38
Estribaciones - Organic Com Production            1,512,225    >200          29
Estribaciones - Baby Banana Production             384,283      109          25
Rio El Angel - Greenhouse Horticulture              857,235      71          42
Rio El Angel - Irrigation Infrastructure          (258,237)       5         (25)
Rio El Angel - Cattle Improvements                 (74,881)       9          (8)
Agroindustry   Loja - Balanced Foodstuff based on Com               41,965       38           3
- Services     Los Rios - Rural Tourism                             15,740       17           2
Los Rios - Inputs Supply and Technical Assistance  204,450       56          28
Estribaciones - Com Processing and Marketing        592,186     116           7
Estribaciones - Citrics Processing                1,314,185      23          17
Estribaciones - Artisanal Sugar-cane Processing   1,650,193     200          28
Enviromnent  Natural          Rio Jubones - Reforestation, Watershed Management    1,239,141    35          93
Resources      Manabi - Cana Guadua for Riverlands Protection      530,092       38          88
Manabi- Reforestation, Watershed Management       2,296,501      34          92
Estribaciones - Reforestation in Coffee Areas       48,736       17          45
Estribaciones - Reforestation in Sugar-cane Areas    18,089      17          40
Rio El Angel - Reforestation of Degraded Lands     966,403       30          88
Social        Infrastructure   Rio ElAngel - Potable Water Supply                  58,370      30           47
Switching values represent percentage reductions of annual benefits which generate a NPV close to zero.
Conversion factor from financial to economic price of family labor was estimated at 70%.
- 37 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Years Ending
2006
| Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            2.3       7.0       13.2       10.7        4.6        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        0.9        0.9        0.9        0.9       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           2.5       7.9       14.1       11.6        5.5        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.3       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               2.7       7.9       14.1       11.6        5.5        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDAIDA                   2.4        5.4        8.1        6.4        2.9       0.0       0.0
Government                 0.2        0.5        1.7        0.7        0.4       0.0       0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.1        1.4        2.4        2.9        1.5       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.6        1.9        1.6        0.7       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      2.7        7.9      14.1        11.6       5.5       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 38 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Procurement
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in
the Credit Agreement.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
An assessment of the implementing agency's procurement capacity was carried out by an authorized
Procurement Specialist and cleared by the RPA in February 2001. Procurement risk was assessed as
"AVERAGE". The following action plan, based on the assessment, was agreed upon with the implementing
agency to address the shortcomings identified. All actions listed below would be implemented before
effectiveness.
* Retain a qualified consultant with a minimum of 5 years experience in Bank-financed procurement
to work on a full-time basis in the PCU and serve as procurement officer for the Project.
* Retain a qualified procurement assistant to support the procurement officer.
* Organize a training program on applicable Bank procurement policies and procedures for the
Regional Coordination Units and the grant beneficiaries. A detailed training plan, methodology and
materials acceptable to the Bank would be prepared before effectiveness. However, the training
plan would be implemented after effectiveness.
- Adopt standard NCB and shopping documents to be agreed by the Bank.
Procurement Planning.
A procurement plan has been submitted and approved by the Bank. The plan will be updated quarterly
throughout the life of the Project and submitted annually for Bank review and approval. Quarterly updates
will be reviewed during supervision missions.
Procurement methods.
The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the estimated amounts for each method,
are summarized in Table A.
Procurement of Goods
The Project would finance contracts for the purchase of vehicles, computer and office equipment estimated
to cost a total amount of approximately US$2.41 million for the operation of the PCU, and strengthening of
social organizations and local financing intermediaries. Contracts for goods estimated to cost more than
US$250,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less
than US$ 250,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$0.4 million may be procured on the basis of NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Prior review of the first two NCB contracts shall serve as the basis for
agreement on a standard model to be used in subsequent contracts. Contracts for goods estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 per contract for miscellaneous equipment that includes replacement of vehicles,
computers, and office equipment, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.58 million may be procured
following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
- 39 -



Consulting Services and Training
The Project would finance consulting services to: (i) prepare diagnoses of local financial institutions; (ii)
carry out pre-investment studies, prepare and implement subprojects; (iii) provide technical assistance to
beneficiaries in participatory planning and Project identification and implementation; and (v) monitor and
evaluate the Project.
Training would consist of: (i) workshops for project formulation and implementation; and (ii) courses for
technical staff, promoters and leaders. The Project would finance trainers' fees, rental of training facilities,
per diem of trainees, and training materials. Training would include workshops on procurement for
Regional Coordination Units and beneficiaries.
Firms
Contracts for firms would be awarded following the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process, in
accordance with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines; Selection under a Fixed Budget for simple and
precisely defined assignments; Least-Cost Selection for audits; and Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications for very small assignments for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive
proposals is not justified; in accordance with Section III of the Consultant Guidelines. The total amount of
these contracts is estimated to be approximately US$6.35 million.
Individuals
Individual consultants would be retained for specialized advisory services, services for project
administration and monitoring, and direct technical assistance to beneficiaries, up to an aggregate amount
of approximately US$2.18 million. The recruitment of these individuals would be based on competitive
selection processes described in the Implementation Manual, considering the total amount of the contracts
for the overall duration of the assignments.
Subproiects:
The Project would finance grants for subprojects proposed by eligible organized communities, civil society,
NGOs, and local government. These subprojects are demand-driven and cannot be defined a priori. The
Operational Manual describes in detail eligibility and selection criteria, the process for identifying,
developing and approving subprojects, and applicable procurement procedures. The maximum cost of a
subproject will depend on the type of subproject, i.e. US$12,600 for community subprojects, US$63,000
for parroquial subprojects and US$252,000 for subprojects at the cant6n level. A subproject could consist
of goods, works or services, or a combination of the three. Most goods financed by the subprojects would
be procured following shopping procedures. However, contracts above the threshold specified in table B, if
any, would be procured following NCB procedures either by or under the direct supervision of the PCU,
depending on the beneficiary's capacity. It is anticipated that only small works will be financed under the
subprojects following the price comparison procedures described above. Procedures to be used by local
government, NGO's s and/or the direct community beneficiaries would incorporate community-based
concepts, where appropriate and as with the Bank and included in the Implementation Manual.
Operatiniz Costs:
The Project will finance operating costs which include equipment and vehicle maintenance, office supplies,
basic services, travel and per diem for PCU staff, and incremental salaries of project implementation unit.
-40 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            [CBCB B                      Other 2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Goods                            0.38           0.44           1.58           0.00          2.41
(0.34)         (0.39)         (1.39)        (0.00)         (2.12)
2. Consulting Services and          0.00           0.00           10.13          0.00          10.13
Training
(0.00)         (0.00)         (7.73)         (0.00)        (7.73)
3. Subprojects                      0.00           2.40           21.59          0.00          23.99
(0.00)         (1.20)        (10.79)         (0.00)       (11.99)
4. PPF                              0.00           0.00            1.27          0.00           1.27
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.1 1)       (0.00)         (1.1 1)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00           3.91           0.00          3.91
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.99)         (0.00)        (1.99)
6. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00           0.25           0.00          0.25
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.25)         (0.00)        (0.25)
Total                               0.38           2.75           38.83          0.00          41.96
(0.34)         (1.44)        (23.42)         (0.00)       (25.20)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to staff managing the Project, and travel and perdiem for this
staff, operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, office supplies, and basic services.
-41 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Seletion Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS   QCBS    SFB      LCS      CQ     Other   N.BF.  Tot Cost
A. Firms               5.96    0.00    0.00    0.09      0.30    0.00    0.00      6.35
(4.55)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.07)   (0.23)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (4.85)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    2.18    0.00      2.18
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (1.66)  (0.00)   (1.66)
Total  5.96    0.00    0.00    0.09      0.30    2.18    0.00      8.53
(4.55)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.07)   (0.23)   (1.66)  (0.00)   (6.51)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment and are
summarized in Table B. Any contract awarded on a single-source basis, assignments of a critical nature,
and amendments raising contract values above the said thresholds would also be subject to prior review. In
addition, the plan and budget for Operating Costs under the Project will be reviewed and approved by the
Bank annually.
- 42 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ tusands)               Method                (Us$ milons)
1. Goods                        >250                     ICB                      All
50-250                   NCB                 First 2 contracts
<50                   Shopping             First 2 contracts
3. Services
Consulting Firms                >100             Independent of method            All
<100            Independent of method       TOR & Shortlist
Individual Consultants           >50                  Chapter V                   All
<50                  Chapter V                TOR only
4. Subprojects                   >50               As described in the       First 2 contracts
<50              Operational Manual2       First 2 contracts
5. Training                      N/A                     N/A                      N/A
6. Miscellaneous                 N/A                     N/A                      N/A
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance
Goods financed by the subprojects estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per package would be
procured following shopping procedures. Contract packages estimated to cost more than US$50,000, if any,
would be procured following NCB procedures.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
`AVERAGE"
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
- 43 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expndituree Category        Amtout in                        Financing Percentage
U:Smillion
Goods                             1.8                             100% FE/ 80% LE
Consultant Services and           7.5                                   100%
Training
Sub Projects                     11.85                         100% of Government share
Operating costs                  1.69         80% until December 31, 2003; 45% until December 31, 2005; 3
thereafter
Front-end fee                    0.25
PPF                              1.11
Unallocated                       1.0
Total                            25.20
Financial Management Responsibility
The PCU will be responsible for the implementation and maintenance of a financial management system, in
order to efficiently manage the Project's funds and prepare the Project Management Reports (PMR) in a
timely manner. The financial management system will include policies, norms and procedures for Planning,
Budget, Procurement, Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing to ensure the provision of accurate and timely
inforrnation to the Word Bank regarding project funds resources and expenditures, as required by
OP/10.02. The system will provide information on physical performance, according to the Project's
outputs and indicators included in Annex 1.
Disbursement Procedures
Until a PMR-compliant financial management system is in place, the PCU will follow traditional
disbursement procedures for the withdrawal of funds under the loan agreement, in accordance with the
guidelines setforth in the Disbursement Procedures Handbook. The Bank and the Borrower have agreed
that if by Project effectiveness the PCU has not fully implemented a financial management system to
produce the PMR required by the Bank, the traditional disbursements procedures will apply for the first
two quarters of Project implementation. SOE documentation will be maintained by the PCU for
post-review and audit purposes. Special Account replenishment requests should be sent to the Bank on a
monthly basis. Once the accounting and financial management system is deemed to be able to produce
timely project management reports, and is certified as such by the Bank, migration to a PMR-based
disbursements may be implemented.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Except for contracts requiring prior review, disbursements would me made against certified statements of
expenditure (SOEs), that is: (i) contracts for goods and works below US$250,000; (ii) contracts with
consulting firms below US$100,000; (iii) contracts with individual consultants below US$50,000; (iv)
training activities and operation costs; and (v) subprojects. SOE documentation will be maintained by
RCUs for post-review and audit purposes for one year after the end of the year in which the last
disbursement takes place.
- 44 -



Use of Project Management Reports (PMRs)
The PMRs will serve as support for disbursement requests. Transition to PMRs will be subject to the
satisfactory results of new financial management and procurement assessments. Once the PCU becomes
PMR-compliant, disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set in the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. Each application for withdrawal should separately
identify the funds requested from the loan account, and would be supported by a PMR or such other
documents and evidence as the Bank may request. PMRs should be submitted within 45 days from the
preceding quarter. Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal, the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower,
shall withdraw from the credit account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser:
(a) the amount requested; and (b) the amount the Bank has detemiined, based on the PMR accompanying
the application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six month
period following the date of the report, but in no case should the advance to the Special Account exceed
20% of the total loan funds without prior authorization from the Loan Department.
Special account:
The PCU will set up a Special Account (SA) in the Central Bank of Ecuador on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the World Bank. In addition to the SA, a Central PROLOCAL Account (CPA) will be
opened at a private bank as well as regional project accounts at provincial branch offices of the same bank.
PROLOCAL will request advances from the SA to the CPA to make payments directly to consultants and
suppliers contracted under components A and B of the Project These requests will be accompanied by a
list of checks to be issued. The request for the advance will be reviewed by the Executive Director before
the transfer can be authorized. Advances from the special account should be documented within 30 days of
transfer to the CPA.
For consulting services and civil works contracted by regional offices under components B and C,
payments will be made directly to consultants and contractors by the private bank based on "ordenes de
pagos" prepared by the regional accountant and approved by the coordinator of the regional office.
Advances to regional accounts will be made from the counterpart funds. Upon documentation of
expenditure by the RCU, the PCU will reimburse the counterpart fund account for eligible expenditures
from the Special Account. The advances to the regional bank accounts will be made based on "solicitudes
de fondos" prepared by the regional accountant and approved by the PCU Administrative Coordinator.
Details of this flow of funds together with guidelines for each step are included in the Project Operation
Manual.
Flow of Funds:
Payments from the Loan proceeds would be administered by the PCU from a Special Account. The Special
Account would be maintained in US dollars in a financial institution acceptable to the Bank. Under
traditional disbursement procedures, the maximum authorized allocation, sufficient for financing 4 months
of eligible expenditures, would be US$2.0 million. Under PMR-based disbursement, the maximum amount
that can be on deposit is US$4.0 million.
Auditing Arrangements:
An external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, will be contracted by the PCU to carry out the annual review
of the Project financial reports. The auditor will be selected according with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of consultants by the World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in
September 1997, so that the audit can be performed throughout each year of project implementation.
The Project financial statements, Special Account Statement, SOEs (if applicable) and the PMRs will be
reviewed and audit report will be submitted to the IBRD within 4 months of the close of the year ending
- 45 -



December 31. The Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World
Bank in the Latin American and Caribbean Region should be followed when preparing the terms of
reference for the audit and these guidelines should be provided to the selected auditors.
Apart from financial auditing, the Project will also carry out a technical audit of the subprojects, training
and technical assistance which will assess the technical quality of the subprojects, training and technical
assistance, the accounting arrangements and justification of expenditures, and issues related to economic,
financial and social sustainability.
Retroactive Financing:
There will be no retroactive financing.
Justification by Beneficiaries of Subproject Expenditures:
Beneficiaries will only have to report the subproject expenditures through a simple statement of expenditure
(excluding the normal requirement for other financial reports). The RCU will keep the proofs of payment,
invoices and other expenditure justification for audit purposes up to two years after the expenses have been
incurred. PROLOCAL will review the reports of the beneficiaries and the auditors will on a sample basis
analyze the expenditures of the beneficiaries and verify whether they have been done in compliance with the
subproject agreement and the administrative and financial requirements established in those agreements.
- 46 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      19                            19
First Bank mission (identification)             08/04/99                     08/03/99
Appraisal mission departure                     02/14/2001                    02/14/2001
Negotiations                                    04/19/2001                   05/07/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/21/2001                   09/21/2001
Prepared by:
Government of Ecuador, Ministry of Social Welfare
Preparation assistance:
TF025961
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Norman B. Piccioni                Sr. Agricultural Economist (Team Leader), LCSER
Mark Austin                       Technical Specialist, LCSER
Gero Carletto                     Economist, DECRG
Gabriela Arcos                    Operations Officer, LCCEC
Pilar Larreamendy                 Social Development Specialist, LCCEC
Marcelo A. Romero                 Operations Officer, LCCEC
Pierre Werbrouck                  Sector Leader, LCCPE
Jose-Manuel Bassat                Communications Officer, EXTRO
Samuel Taffesse                   Operations Analyst, LCSER
Teresa Roncal                     Procurement Analyst, LCSES
Irani Escolano                    Procurement Specialist, LCSES
Patricia de la Fuente             Financial Management Officer
Isam Abousleiman                  Disbursement Officer
Enzo de Laurentiis                Sr. Procurement Specialist, LCSES
- 47 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
A. Project Implementation Plan
- Operational Manual, April 2001. *
- Project Implementation Plan, April 2001. *
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Project Target Group, Micro-regions, Institutions and Subprojects. July 2000. *
- Component C: Prototype Projects Analysis and Projections. July 2000. *
-  Execution arrangements. July 2000. *
-  Project Financial and Economic Analysis. March 2001.*
- Project costs. May 2001. *
C. Other
1 General
- Jordan, F. October 2000. Country Project Document: Basis for Pre-appraisal. *
-  Jara, C.J. March 2000. El Paradigma del Desarrollo Sostenible. *
-  Jara, C.J. January 1999. Cultura y Economia Solidariapara el Desarrollo Local.*
- Jara, C.J. April 1999. Desarrollo Local: Una Nueva Dintimica Multidimensional para Construir
Sociedades Sostentibles. *
- Jordan, F. March 2000. Lecciones de la Experiencia para el PROLOCAL. *
-  Jordan, F. et. al. November 1999. PROLOCAL, Marco Conceptual.*
-  Jordan, F. et. al. March 1999. Analisis de las Estrategias para Reducir la Pobreza Rural. *
-  Roman, J.C. et. al. April 1999. Guia para la Sensibilizaci6n de los Actores Locales:
Recomendaciones para el Equipo Tecnico. *
-  Roman, J.C. August 1999. Identificaci6n de Proyectos Tipo -- Guia para el Trabajo de Campo.
r
-  Roman J.C. March 2001. Manual de operaciones del FIL.
-  Jara, C.J. August 2000. Formacion de Capital Humano.*
- Jara, C.J. August 2000. Formacion y Desarrollo Local Sostenible. *
- Jordan, et. al. August 2000. Nuevos Enfoques de Capacitaci6n para el Desarrollo Rural. *
-  Labra, 1. June 1999. El Laboratorio Organizacionalpara la Formaci6n de Empresas
Asociativas. *
- Corella, M. October 2000. El Rol de los Servicios Financieros Rurales.*
-  Endara, Loudes. January 2001. Estrategia de Comunicaci6n de PROLOCAL. *
-  Cazco, Marco. April 2001. Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial de PROLOCAL.*
- Escarabay, Lupe. January 2001. Manual Especializado de Contabilidadpara PROLOCAL. *
-  Ramon, Galo. January 2001. Pautas metodol6gicas para PROLOCAL. *
-  Sanchez, Raul et. al. March 2001. Organicofuncional de PROLOCAL. *
2 Component Studies
- Ram6n, G. October 2000. Component A: Gesti6n del Desarrollo Local.*
-  Ram6n, G. October 2000. Component B: Apoyo a Proveedores de Servicios.*
-  Roman, J.C. October 2000. Component C: Fondo de Inversi6n Local.*
-  Sanchez, R. October 2000. Component D: Unidad de Coordinaci6n del PROLOCAL.*
- 48 -



3 Targeting
- Jordan, F. et. al. December 1999. PROLOCAL: Delimitacion de Microregiones.*
-  Roman, J.C. May 2000. Delimitaci6n delAreay Poblacion Objetivo.*
4 Social Aspects and Assessments
- Jordan F. et al. May 2000. Evaluacicn Social: Propuesta de Evaluaci6n de la Realidad Social de
Territorios Microregionales para el PROLOCAL. *
-  DYA. February 2001. Evaluaci6n Socialpara el PROLOCAL: Resultados Finales.*
- Ojeda S. Lautaro. January 2000. Diagn6stico de la Situaci6n Social Ecuatoriana, Con enfasis
en los Problemas, Causalidades y Tendencias del Sector Rural. *
5 Environmental Aspects
- CEPLAES. February 200 1. Environmental Baseline Study.
6 Institutional Aspects
-  Caballero, J. November 1999. Aspectos Institucionales del Programa.*
- Armas, G. October 2000. Diagnostico Institucional en el Universo PROLOCAL.*
-  Jordan, F. et. al. March 2000. Informe Sobre Construccion de la Plataforma Institucional
PROLOCAL. *
- Jara, C. J. et. al. July 2000. Nueva Institucionalidadpara el Desarrollo Sostenible Local.*
-  PROLOCAL Team. March 2001. Sistema de Selecci6n y evaluaci6n del desempeno del
personal. *
7. Poverty reduction
- Chiriboga, M. & Rodriguez L. July 1999. Rural Poverty Reduction Strategy Analysis.*
S. Financial and Economic Evaluation
- Roman, J. C. June 2000. Resultados de la Evaluaci6n ex ante de Proyectos Tipo.*
- Roman, J. C. May 2000. Identificaci6n de Proyectos Tipo - Microregi6n Babahoyo: Cant6nes
Vinces y Pueblo Viejo. *
- Roman, J. C. April 2000. Identificaci6n de Proyectos Tipo - Microregi6n de la Sierra Norte:
Canton Mira.*
- Roman, J. C. June 2000. Identificaci6n de Proyectos Tipo - Microregi6n Oriental de Loja:
Canton Paltas. *
- Roman, J. C. April 2000. Identificaci6n de Proyectos Tipo - Microregion Cuenca Alta del Rio
Jubones: Cant6n Santa Isabel. *
-  Roman, J. C. March 2000. Identificacion de Proyectos Tipo - Microregi6n Ventanas y
Estribaciones de la Cordillera Occidental. *
-  Roman, J. C. June 2000. Identificaci6n de Proyectos Tipo - Microregion JipaJipa. *
-  Roman, J. C. June 2000. Capacitaci6n en Metodologias de Identificaci6n de Proyectos
Integradores. *
9. Gender
- Jacome, R. January 2000. Incorporaci6n de la Dimensi6n de Genero al Proyecto PROLOCAL. *
*Including electronic files
- 49 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P049924       2001 Rural Water Supply & Sanitation                 32.00      0.00                            0.00     32.00      0.00      0.00
P064045       2000 Fin Sectr TA Ln                                 10.00      0.00                            0.00      9.30      1.97      0.00
P070337       2000 EC-SAL                                         151.52      0.00                            0.00    151.52     101.52     0.00
P040106       1998 INTLTRDEItNTEGRATIO                             21.00      0.00                            0.00     11.30      3.97      0.00
P040086       1998 INDIGENOUS PEOPLES                              25.00      0.00                            0.00      8.86      2.93      0.00
P039084       1998 EC- HEALTH SERVICES MODERNIZATION PROJ.         45.00      0.00                            0.00     39.48      14.92     0.00
P007135       1998 AGRIC CENSUS & iNFO                             20.00      0.00                            0.00      4.84      -2.06     0.00
P036056       1997 ECJUDICIAL REFORM                               10.70      0.00                           0.00       3.32      1.80      0.00
P007131       1997 AG RESEARCH                                     21.00      0.00                            0.00     15.04      3.37      2.28
P007128       1996 ENV MANAGEMENT PROJ                             15.00      0.00                            4.99      2.29      7.28      4.29
P007105       1994 IRRIGTA                                         20.00      0.00                            0.00      2.07      2.07      1.07
P007087       1993 EC- SOCIAL DEV. II: HEALTH & NUTRITION          70.00      0.00                            0.00     16.34      -3.86     0.00
Total:     441.22       0.00                           4.99     296.36     133.90      7.64
ECUADOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                 Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic       Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
1997                     Agrocapital                             3.50       0.00       0.00       0.00       3.50      0.00       0.00       0.00
1969/73/77/81/82/87   COFIEC                                     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                     Concessionaria                         11.50       1.30       0.00      15.00       2.93      0.33       0.00       3.82
1999                     FV Ecuacobre                            9.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       9.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                     Favorita Fruit                         10.00       5.00       0.00       0.00      10.00       5.00      0.00       0.00
1999                     La Universal                            8.20       5.00       0.00       0.00       8.20      5.00        0.00      0.00
1993                     REYBANPAC                               4.65       0.00       0.00       0.00       4.65      0.00       0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:               46.85      11.30       0.00      15.00      38.28      10.33       0.00       3.82
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
2000                    ERSA                                         8.00        4.00          0.00         0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                   8.00         4.00         0.00         0.00
- 50 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ECUADOR: Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development (PROLOCAL)
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                         America   middle-
Ecuador  & Carib,  Income        Development diamond'
1999
Population. mid-year (miflfonsJ                      12.4      509      2,094                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Affss method, US$)                  1,360     3,840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS bdllions)                     16.9     1,955     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        2.0       1.6       1,      GNP
Labor force (%                                        3A        2.5       1.2     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estImate (lateat year available, 1993.99)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverny (% of population below national povrwty tine)  35
Urban pOrjulalion (% of totil populaion)              64         75       43
Life expectancv at birth (years)                      70        70        69
Infant mortali ty(per 1,W0v bihs)                     32        31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5}            45         $        15                Access to sate water
Access to improved water source (% of population)     70         75       86
Illiteracv (% ofpopulation aqe 15k)                    9         12       16
Gross oinmary enrollment (5of schoolae population)   127        113      114        -     Ecuador
Mate                                               134                 114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             119                 116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999_
Economic ratioa'
GOP (US$ billions)                           9A       9.8      19.7      19.1
Gross domestic investmenttGDP               25.3    20,7       24.7      12.2
Exports of qoods and services/GDP           25.9     29.4      25.3      37.3                    Trade
Gross domrestic savings/GOP                 25,9    18.9       18.0      24.9
Gross national savinos/GOP                  22.0    12.5       17.7      24.8
Current account balanceiGDP                  -4.8    -5.2     -11,0       6.0
Interest paymentlGOP                         2.9      4.2       3.8       3.6     Domestic                    Investment
Total debtUGDP                              484    115.2       76.8      80.2     Savings
Total debt service/exports                  60.1     35.6      28.8      22.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                      72.2
Present value of debtlexoorts                                 240.0
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1s99      1999   1999-03
(average annual gtowth)
GDP                                 2.0      2.4      0.4      -73                         Ecuador
GNP oer capita                     -0,8      0.2      21      -14.4                  -     Lower-middle-income group
ExPorts ofooods and services        4.5      5.2    -3.8       -2.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998     1999      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(5A of GOP)
Aoriculture                                 13.5    14.0       12.0      12.4    20
Industry                                    38.6     37.4      32.7      37.4     a
Manufacturnn                              19.2    21.1       21.9      21.3    -20    94   98
Services                                    47.9    48.6       55.2      50.3     o           
Private consumption                         61.2     71.7      70.4      65.0    460
General oovemment consumption               12.9      9.4      11.7      10.1               'GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services               25,4     31.2      32.0      24.7
197949  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports
(average annual growth)
Aarculture                                   4.1      2.7      -1.4       1.8    20
In dustry                                    1.6      2.8      -0.6      -6.0
Manufacturin                               0.5      2.4       0.4      -7.1       0
Services                                     1.6      2.0       1.8    -1 1.3                            97 9
Private consumpton                           2.1      1.8       2.1      -9.5
General govemment consumpton                -1.2     -1.2      -1.1    -12.9
Gross domestic investment                   -3.5      0.4      t 1.8    -50.5    - D
Imports of qonds and services               -1.7      1.8       5.9    -37 0             -Eports   -0Imports
Gross national product                       1.8      2.3       4.1    -12.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-arouP averaae. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 51 -



Ecuador
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         75
Consumer prices                               10.3    75.6       36.1      52.3    s 
Implicit GDP deflator                        16.1     70.8       35.4     62.9
25
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                 ..    14.8       16.2      19.3            94   95   96   97   99    9
Current budqet balance                         ..      2.3        0.4       1.9            -     GDP deflator    e  ci
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..      1.9       4.8       -3.4
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         1,659    2,354      4,203    4,451     6,000
Oil                                         720    1,033        789     1,312
Bananas                                     140      370      1,070      954      4000
Manufactures                                  ..    328       1,004     1,062
Total imports (cif)                         1,505    1,693      5,576    3,017
Food                                          ..0
Fuel and energy                              63       66        326      244
Capital poods                               544      625      1,874      815       0o
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 123      101        84       100
Import price index (1995=100)                  93      104        91        84                 r Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     132       97        92       119
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,838    2,871      5,007    5,263      6
Imports of goods and services               1,985    2,296      6,409    4,090
Resource balance                             -146      575    -1,402     1,173                                        A
Net income                                   -337   -1,186    -1,543    -1,319            o                             9
Netcurrenttransfers                            31       97       776     1,101
Current account balance                      -453     -514    -2,169       955       -.
Financing items (net)                         521      703      1,774    -1,294
Changes in net reserves                       -68     -189       395       339     a2-
Memo:
Reserves including qold (US$ millions)        740      706      1,786    1,809
Conversion rate (DEC, localNUS$)             25.0   526.3   5,446.6   8,496.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      ComposItlon of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        4,525   11,317    15,140    15,310
IBRD                                         85      761       854       912                 G. t,428  A: 912
IDA                                          37       32        23        22                                B: 22
Total debt service                          1,121    1,029      1,706     1,475
IBRD                                         13      115       136       141                                    D:2,731
IDA                                           0        1         1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              13       40        66
Official creditors                          -45      186       188       205                                     E: 2,181
Private creditors                           618      242      -247       -30
Foreign direct investment                    63       80       831       690           F: 8,036
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0
World Bank proqram
Commitments                                  58       45       111        20      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                31       75        85        90      B - tDA    D - Other mulblateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                          6       46        84        83      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    25       30         0         7
Interest payments                             7       70        52        59
Net transfers                                18      40        -52       -52
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/7/00
- 52 -



Additional
Annex 11
Communications Strategy
The implementation of PROLOCAL involves a wide variety of stakeholders, among whom a proactive
participatory dynamic needs to be generated. Therefore, a communication strategy has been designed in
order to accomplish the following challenges:
=w     Motivate the beneficiaries so that they get involved in all the implementation stages of the program
and recognize it as an opportunity to become the agents of their own sustainable development process.
=>    Adequately inform the beneficiaries about the objectives and working strategy of PROLOCAL in
such a way that expectations about the program are in accordance with what it proposes and the available
tools and resources are utilized conveniently.
X~  Promote, among direct beneficiaries and micro regional actors, the concept of local development as
an integral strategy based on a decentralized management model, which respects socio-cultural diversity of
the different stakeholders who participate in it and who contribute to the empowerment of local
communities.
X      'Facilitate the exchange of experiences and information among the objective groups to strengthen
local development processes supported by PROLOCAL.
X~  Avoid the risks of politicizing the program, which could derive from the lack of timely and
adequate information about its concept, objectives and intervention strategy.
In accordance with the above risks, PROLOCAL considers that comnmunication activities should fulfill the
following functions:
X~  Facilitate the adequate and timely exchange of information among the different components and
executing units at the national and regional level, as well as between the beneficiaries and the regional
executing units.
=>    Promote the innovative approach of PROLOCAL in order to reach--through dialogue and
debate--agreements among the different stakeholders.
X      Facilitate the systematization, evaluation and feedback of experiences promoted by PROLOCAL
among the beneficiary population and the rest of direct and indirect stakeholders of the process, in such a
way that they can contribute to the consolidation of social capital in the Project intervention zones.
X     Encourage social transparency and responsibility in all stages and components of the Project in
order to have all involved actors exercise control over Project activities.
PROLOCAL's communication strategy has been designed as an action which will in the long run permit:
X~  Strengthening dialogue capacity among the different involved stakeholders in local development for
the attainment of agreements and consensus that permit sustainability of the process in the long run.
PROLOCAL's communication strategy aims to achieve the following specific objectives:
=>    Accomplish real participation of beneficiaries in all stages of the process.
=>    Ensure that the Project gathers the aspirations of the beneficiaries.
>     Diminish the risk of political pressure from the part of external actors that could affect the
execution of the program and distort future prospects.
- 53 -



PROLOCAL's communication strategy has two components:
a) Organizational communication component: Will facilitate the transference of information from
PROLOCAL to all the involved stakeholders with the purpose of positioning the Project.
Results expected to attain with the execution of this component are:
RI.   PROLOCAL's organizational identity is known by external and internal actors of the process.
R2.   Knowledge of PROLOCAL's organizational identity has reduced the risk of politicizing the Project
and has optimized its implementation.
R3.   The external actors support PROLOCAL's management and contribute to achieving its goals.
R4.   The internal actors consciously assume PROLOCAL's action strategy.
b) Community communication component: Will facilitate the transference of information from the target
population to PROLOCAL to ensure that their demands, perceptions and opinions are reflected in project
activities.
Results expected to attain with the execution of this component are:
RI.   PROLOCAL's organizational identity is known by Project's target population.
R2.   Knowledge of PROLOCAL's organizational identity allows the target population to clearly identify
the Project's management strategy.
R3.   Target population actively participates in the process promoted by PROLOCAL.
R4.   Target population provides feedback to PROLOCAL's proposal while implementation of the
Project progresses.
Each component will be executed by a specialized firm under the supervision of a communications
specialist integrated within the team of the Program Implementation Unit.
- 54 -



Additional
Annex 12
Targeting, Monitoring and Evaluation
Targeting
The PROLOCAL development objective is to improve the well-being of poor rural households in selected areas of
the country. Implicit in this objective is the Project's effort to reach the most vulnerable groups of the population.
To achieve this goal, targeting at different levels is envisaged in the Project's design.
In its first level, geographical targeting permits concentration of the Project's resources in the poorest areas of the
country. Based on the Project methodology, parroquias are the basic units of planning and managing local
development, and define the territorial entities of the Project's execution. A total of 120 parroquias in 31 cantones,
grouped in 6 micro-regions, were identified as the result of a process which involved the use of statistical
information available from various sources and inputs from participatory exercises at the community level. The
Project covers an area of 19,000 square kilometers, or 8% of the national territory, and includes more than 800,000
people, of which almost three quarters are poor. Among rural households, representing almost 84% of the entire
population, four people out of five are poor. This segment of approximately 600,000 poor people (120,000
households) represents the Project's target population.
The selection of the micro-regions responded to a number of criteria that facilitated the geographical delimitation
of areas with strong economic, social and cultural links. To avoid duplications and overlapping with
PRODEPINE, it was initially agreed to exclude all parroquias which fell within its area of influence. For the
identification of the micro-regions, a multidisciplinary group was formed and a set of criteria established, and
included, among others, the geo-political boundaries, average size of the production unit, poverty levels, and
availability of infrastructure. Based on these criteria, a total of 14 socio-agro-environmental zones were first
identified. Consultations with qualified informants led to a refinement of the potential area of intervention to a
total of 42 cantones in 9 micro-regions. A further screening was conducted and 11 cantones in three micro-regions
were excluded because, at a closer look, they did not meet some of the selection criteria. The resulting scenario was
superimposed with the ODEPLAN's poverty maps to identify the poorest areas.
The selected micro-regions and their characteristics are listed in the following table:
Microregion                         # Cantones      # Parroquias     Population     % Rural   % Poor
1. Zona Sur de Manabi                          6               26         218,609         76        75
2. Zona Occidental de los Rios                 6               16         253,474         68        66
3. Estribacion Central de los Andes            5               12         107,140         78        75
4. Zona Oriental de Lojas                      5               29          99,023         84        86
5. Cuenca Alta del Rio Jubones                 4               12          51,275        100        79
6. Cuenca del Rio El Angel                     5               25          76,132        100        78
Total                                         31              120         805,653         84        74
In spite of the great environmental potential of the target areas (soil, water and climate, among others) and of
isolated successful entrepreneurial initiatives, the condition of poverty and destitution faced by the vast majority of
households in the selected micro-regions is also evident from a number of non-income poverty indicators. The
average number of years of schooling is less than four years. The infant mortality rate is 64 per thousand, less than
40% of households have access to a latrine, only one household in seven have sewage and almost half have no
- 55 -



electricity. Within the economically active population, less than 30% receive a regular salary. Field work realized
during Project preparation revealed extremely precarious living conditions, lack of opportunities and high
inequalities, as well as low self-confidence, widespread social mistrust and poor organizational capacity and
leadership.
The depicted scenario of extreme poverty and widespread destitution makes uncertain the feasibility and
cost-effectiveness of household-level targeting within each of the selected parroquias. However, in light of the
nature of the subprojects, with beneficiary households having to share the burden of the investment, it is likely for
the Project to attract a large number of unintended better-off beneficiaries, resulting in unacceptable levels of
leakage of the Project's resources.
For this purpose, the Project contemplates the inclusion of procedures at the community and subproject level in an
attempt to curb the formation of groups whose majority of participants are among wealthier households, and thus
meet the developmental objectives of the Project. The positive externalities of a heterogenous group reflecting the
socio-economic make-up of the community are recognized, together with the social, administrative costs of.a
second-tier targeting and the moral costs associated with unintended exclusions. Therefore, the focus of the
second-tier screening will be on introducing community-based processes and implementation procedures at
different stages of the Project cycle to prevent and monitor excessive leakage of the Project's resources.
The effectiveness of the targeting methodology will be assessed through the Project's monitoring system as well as
on the basis of the proposed ex-post evaluation study and beneficiaries assessment.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system will assess first the provision, then the utilization and coverage of
the target population, and finally the impact of the services and inputs provided. It will consist of: (i) a
computerized information system, which will track on a continuous basis the Project's progress against process
indicators and feed into management's decision-making in almost real time; (ii) periodic beneficiaries assessments,
which will provide on an annual basis the target groups' perceptions and reactions about Project progress; (iii) an
impact evaluation study, which will quantify in statistical terns the final impact which can be attributed to the
Project; and (iv) annual audits and the Bank's regular supervision missions, which will review the technical and
fiduciary aspects.
Monitoring system
National and regional coordination units would have the responsibility to collect, analyze, archive and distribute
relevant and timely information to assist decision making for Project management. An information system would
help in monitoring financial and procurement management, physical implementation, performance of coordination
units, performance of local technical assistance service providers, and the achievement of the indicators from the
logical framework.
The financial information needed for LACI Project Management Reports (PMRs) would be provided from the
financial management module of the monitoring system. Monitoring and processing of procurement of services,
goods, works and subprojects would be carried out by the procurement system and by the subprojects information
system module. The PMRs for procurement management would be generated from this module. Both the annual
planning processes for the coordination units and local development planning would be monitored with specific
indicators on planning performance defined in the logical framework.
Physical implementation would be monitored based on the outputs and monitoring indicators for the four
components of the Project as defined in the logical framework. The subprojects module would be designed to
provide most of the information needed to monitor the actual progress on the implementation of each component.
The PMR on project progress would be prepared utilizing the output monitoring indicators.
Regional coordination unit staff would be responsible for obtaining physical implementation progress, local
procurement and financial information on subprojects and maintaining the information in the subprojects,
financial and procurement information system. This information would be sent periodically to the national
- 56 -



coordination unit for review, approval and aggregation.
Information from the monitoring system would be analyzed by the Project management and disseminated
according to the Project's communication strategy to appropriate stakeholders. The Project would provide the
LACI PMRs quarterly, and an update on legal covenants compliance every six months, to the Bank.
Beneficiary Assessment
The Project intends to induce changes in a complex rural society, whose subtleties and in-depth functioning are
still partly ignored. The assumptions about the positive effects of, and expected reactions to, the Project's activities,
although strongly justified, are often hard to substantiate, at least for some groups of stakeholders, and unexpected
collateral effects can appear, which could, if not timely detected, play against the Project's objectives. On the other
hand, the whole Project is designed to achieve improvements in the life of a target group of people, who become
the main actors for the Project's success. It must therefore receive regular feedback from them, to verify if their
understanding and eagerness to participate is in line with expectations.
To provide the Project with an adequate tool to achieve these goals, a Beneficiaries Assessment (BA) will be
conducted throughout the Project's life.
This BA study has three functions:
1. to permanently feed the Project with qualitative information about the reactions of the poor, and in a timely
manner detect unexpected or collateral (positive or negative) effects, in order to better steer Project activities
(monitoring function);
2. to assess and measure (although not statistically) the nature, quality and depth of the Project's impact with
respect to the Project's KPI, thus complementing the statistical impact evaluation study (evaluation function);
3. to allow the rural poor to express their concerns and own perceptions all along the Project steps, thus gaining
empowerment and ownership of the whole process (participation function).
The ex-ante social assessment produced a first insight of the social situation in 4 representative cant6nes, and a set
of indicators to characterize by component the perceptions of social actors in the field. These elements, together
with grassroots information required from the PCU, will be used as inputs to define the themes to be inquired
through the BA, and prepare the sampling and interview guides.
The main topics to investigate relate to the Project's performance in: targeting, transparency, efficiency,
compliance with beneficiaries' expectations, grade of participation of different stakeholders, and collateral effects
of the Project's activities.
Taking into account the lessons learnt from similar projects (Pronader, Prodepine) and the risk of clientelism and
political pressures already identified by the ex-ante social assessment as important in the 6 micro-regions, the BA
will be conducted yearly, with different objectives according to the Project's progress:
*   Year 1: complete the weak social assessment already done, realize a social situation baseline allowing further
comparisons, and assess the beneficiaries' perceptions of participatory planning
*   Year 2: monitor the effects of participatory planning, training and first subprojects implementation
*   Years 3,4,5: monitor all Project activities and measure impacts as activities go along
All Project long: to better understand the reactions of the rural poor and increase their ownership and participation.
Adequate coverage for the study will be obtained with 12 parroquias (2 from each micro-region) for the first
session, adding 2 more each year, selected within the ones newly attended by the Project each year.
The sampling will have to be stratified according to gender and age, in a total sample of about 600 persons
inquired.
While the rural poor are the main target of the beneficiary assessment, special research will be conducted among
other key actors involved, such as: field Project staff, T.A. and NGOs workers, local organizations, community
leaders and municipal executives, so as to complete the understanding given by the poor, with information to
which they have no access, especially about subprojects, local planning, and the Project's communication and
management information systems. This must allow the Project's management to better understand the part played
- 57 -



by, specific interests of, and risks carried by, all these groups of stakeholders.
The Project (specifically its M&E unit, in the person of the evaluation specialist), will prepare terms of reference,
and coordinate and supervise, while the BA itself is conducted by a contracted external firm.
Impact Evaluation
The impact evaluation study to be implemented aims at assessing the effectiveness of the Project's targeting and at
establishing the degree to which observed changes in both service coverage and final outcomes can be attributed to
the Project.
In line with the logical framework developed during Project preparation, the objective of the evaluation system is
multifold and includes: (1) assess the Project's contribution in enhancing human and social capital among its
beneficiaries; (2) measure changes in access to services and productive assets in the target population; (3) evaluate
the Project's effectiveness in reaching the poor and vulnerable groups; and (4) quantify the impact of the Project on
poverty, employment and equity.
The proposed evaluation system is based on a longitudinal-control study, consisting of a baseline survey before the
implementation of the Project's activities and a follow-up survey of the same households towards the end of the
Project on both beneficiary households, as well as a control group. To enable the results of the impact evaluation to
feed into future activities, the latter survey is scheduled for the beginning of year five.
The design of the evaluation study is conditioned by three main factors: 1) low Project coverage in the area of
intervention; 2) intervention is demand-driven; and 3) areas of intervention have already been identified.
The Project will begin operating in two micro-regions, and will later expand to four additional micro-regions. The
expected coverage of the Project within each micro-region is expected to vary substantially depending on the type
of Project being implemented, with social investments likely to involve the majority of people in a community, and
productive investments to be more restricted to smaller groups. In view of the expected low coverage of the Project
in these areas of intervention, and to ensure that a sufficiently large treatment group is included in the baseline
sample, oversampling of beneficiaries will be necessary. The treatment group will be drawn from the list of early
entrants among the project's beneficiaries, once participating communities have been identified. The timing of the
baseline becomes very important as data on the treatment group must be collected immediately after identification
of a sufficiently large pool of participating communities but before disbursement of the Project's resources. To
partly offset the selection bias caused by only including early entrants in the treatment group, the possibility to
conduct the data collection in two separate waves a few months apart will be considered.
As differentiated impact can be expected from certain types of projects, and as to ensure that several, if not all,
types of subproject are represented among the selected beneficiaries, if feasible the universe of beneficiaries will be
stratified by subproject type prior to selection of the treatment households, and at least two domains of estimation
among beneficiaries will be considered.
The identification of a proper counterfactual is key to establishing causality between the Project and any observed
change in the chosen indicators. The possibility of randomizing the allocation of project resources was thoroughly
evaluated. However, because of certain features in the Project's design, a quasi-experimental design was ultimately
deemed more feasible. An extemal control group will be drawn from a number of Parroquias similar to the ones in
the initial area of intervention but beyond Project reach in its five years of implementation. Using data from
ODEPLAN at the parroquia level, the control parroquias will be matched based on a number of available
socio-economic variables. Also, the presence of development institutions and programs in the areas will be
considered as criteria for the matching.
To allow for ex-post matching, a control group larger than the treatment group is foreseen. The ex-post matching
might be necessary because of the fact that, despite the proposed ex-ante matching at the parroquia level, it is still
possible to end up with a substantially different group of control households. In addition, a larger control group
will enable for ex-post corrections in the undesirable event that project activities affect some of the control areas. It
is of paramount importance for the Project not to enter the control parroquias at least until year five, as the entire
evaluation is premised on this assumption.
- 58 -



The evaluation study will also collect information at the household and community level to statistically control for
the non-random nature of the participation process at both levels. To this end, and in an attempt to measure the
indirect effect of the Project on non-participating households, a random sample of households within the selected
micro-regions will also be included in the study. Finally, the evaluation will also allow for an econometric analysis
of the relationships between the different types of Project intervention and the observed changes in key indicators.
The set of socio-economic indicators to be measured by the system reflects the objectives and outputs at different
levels proposed in the logical framework of the Project and relates to human and social capacity strengthening and
access to productive assets and services at the local level, differentiated by gender whenever feasible, as well as to
poverty and equity. Although the former indicators are measures of the Project's achievements in their own right,
the evaluation will also aim at estimating the contribution of the Project's productive investments in raising the
well-being of its beneficiaries in income terms.
The evaluation study will be carried out by consultants who are not involved in the Project's design or
implementation. The Project Implementation Unit, in the person of the evaluation specialist, will be responsible
for preparing the TOR for the external consultants and supervising their operations. The evaluation specialist will
also be responsible for finalizing the design of the impact evaluation study, including sample selection, as well as
for supervising the external consultants during the analysis of the baseline and the impact evaluation study.
Provision is made in the budget for hiring an evaluation specialist on a part-time basis and the contracting of
external consultants to conduct an analyze the baseline and the follow-up surveys.
Audits and supervision
Standard financial and procurement audits will be performed by independent, specialized firms on an annual basis.
World Bank supervision missions will review the technical and fiduciary aspects on a six-month basis, or more
often if required. Supervision of specific technical aspects, in particular those under component D, will be
performed by specialized firms with relevant experience in the sector and in the area.
- 59 -



Additional
Annex 13
Environmental Assessment Procedure for Financing Local Development Subprojects
1. Procedure for Subprojects Screening
To ensure that acceptable environmental criteria and standards are included in subprojects financed under
Component C - Local Investments Fund, the following measures are being introduced in to the Operational
Manual: (i) collection of environmental information during subprojects preparation through a standard
questionnaire to be completed by proponents; (ii) screening of the environmental procedure by an environmental
specialist (ES) in the PCU; and (iii) based on the screening, an environmental analysis and/or environmental
management/mitigation plan may be requested as a prerequisite for financing.
The Operational Manual will contain specific guidelines for the evaluation of impacts. The environmental
specialist at the PCU will be responsible for preparing these guidelines, which will include procedures for the
identification and assessment of significant positive and negative impacts resulting from proposed subprojects.
The identification of impact will provide the basis for the identification and description of each mitigating
measure, including the type of impact to which it relates and the conditions under which it is required and
recommendations for environmental enhancement. This process is explained in more detail as part of the
Environmental Management Plan described below.
An Environmental Management Plan would include the following steps:
Identification of Mitigation Measures: In order to significantly reduce adverse environmental impacts, the most
feasible and cost-effective measures will be proposed. The plan should seek to: i) identify all anticipated
significant adverse impacts; and ii) describe and develop technical details of each mitigation measure, including an
estimation of potential impacts of these measures.
Monitoring and Evaluation Plan: Monitoring and evaluation plans will be designed for each one of the four
categories or typologies of subprojects. Such plans would provide information about key environmental aspects and
the effectiveness of mitigation measures throughout subproject implementation and would give the opportunity to
apply corrective actions when needed. Each monitoring plan will set up clear objectives and will include the
following key issues: i) description and technical details of monitoring measures, parameters to be measured,
methods to be applied; ii) monitoring and reporting procedures to provide information on a permanent basis on the
progress and results of mitigation; iii) an implementation schedule for measures that must be carried out as part of
the Project, showing phasing and coordination with overall Project implementation plans; and (iv) detailed
institutional arrangements necessary for the effective implementation of mitigating and monitoring measures.
A sound monitoring mechanism should allow the PCU to oversee the subproject implementing entity's adherence
to environmental requirements (cfr. Annex 13). The mitigation plan will be integrated into the subproject's overall
planning, design, budget and implementation. Such integration would be achieved by establishing the mitigation
plan as a component of the subproject. In this way, the plan will receive enough funding and will be supervised
along with other investment components. When applicable the monitoring plan would be attached to the
subproject's tripartite implementation agreement (convenio). If a less extensive analysis is required and the
development of a management plan is not necessary the incorporation of best practice standards for specific
activities, followed by the design of preventive or mitigating measures, would be enough to ensure that sound
environmental practices are incorporated to Project design and implementation.
PROLOCAL will not finance the subprojects specified in a negative list under the OM, which would include:
a)     Any type of activities not legally authorized in protected areas;
b)     Agricultural activities that would entail the deforestation or transformation of native forests into
cultivation or pasture areas;
c)     Forestry activities that would imply the deforestation of native forests;
- 60 -



d)     Colonization of areas with native forests;
e)     Use of mangroves;
f)     Development of cultivars in steep areas that would produce soil erosion;
g)     Purchase and use of equipment for logging;
h)     Construction of dams or roads in areas occupied by native forest;
i)     Any type of activity that will threaten endangered species or their habitat;
j)     Purchase and use of pesticides classified as dangerous and extremely toxic by the World Health
Organization.
Capacity Development and Training: The PCU and Regional Coordination Units (RCUs) will carry out screening,
environmental assessment and monitoring. Both units will be staffed with environmental specialists whose job
descriptions and work experience will permit them to accurately review and process subprojects.
II. Environmental Baseline Survey
Considering that specific subprojects will be known only during the implementation phase, it was agreed that an
environmental baseline survey would be carried out during the preparation phase to provide: (i) a strategic
guidance to the Borrower on prioritizing investments for financing; (ii) the context and recommendations for
mitigation or prevention measures appropriate for different subproject types.
A local consulting firm was contracted in December 2000 to develop the environmental baseline survey in the six
micro-regions in which the Project will be implemented. The survey was completed at the end of February, 2001. It
is a first approach to the understanding of the main environmental issues affecting the six micro-regions as the
initial step in the environmental assessment process. The survey provides a description of current physical,
biological and socio-economic characteristics. It also makes an initial approach to the identification of relevant
environmental impacts in each micro-region and provides preliminary recommendations to address such impacts.
The Survey comprises reports with the environmental baseline (one per micro-region), and a questionnaire to be
used in the screening process to help identify subprojects requiring impact mitigation measures.
Methodology
The analysis of the environmental status of the six micro-regions was based on a review of available secondary
information. The main sources of informnation were the surveys and studies carried out by PROLOCAL and
PRONADER, and reports issued by public agencies such as the Ministry of the Environment, National Council of
Water Resources (Consejo Nacional de Recursos Hidricos), National Mining Directorate (Direcci6n Nacional de
Mineria), National Institue of Statistics and Census (Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas y Censos), Ministry of
Social Welfare, National Herbarium and the Planning Unit of the President's Office (ODEPLAN). Basic
Cartography was provided by CLIRSEN and the Instituto Geografico Militar.
Secondary information was complemented with additional data collected at the field and interviews to
representatives from Municipalities, Ministry of Agriculture, Centros Agricolas Cantonales, NGOS, and local
leaders.
The survey in each micro-region was based on the analysis of physical, biotic, social, economic and cultural
parameters. The level of detail for each parameter varied according to the availability of secondary information
among the six micro-regions.
Results
As mentioned in previous sections, the six micro-regions were selected among the poorest in the country. They
hold around 800,000 inhabitants, of which almost three quarter are poor. In spite of the benefits provided by the
existing environmental characteristics (soil, water, and climate), the condition of poverty among the six
micro-regions is very evident. The access to basic services such as health, education, water and electricity is very
limited, so living conditions are precarious. It is well known that poverty and the lack of knowledge about critical
environmental problems are the main causes for the unsustainable use of natural resources.
- 61 -



Additional
Annex 14
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT FINDINGS
The social assessment (SA) gathered and analyzed qualitative information in six cantones. Four of them 24
de Mayo, Ventanas, Paltas, and Santa Isabel represented the area of PROLOCAL, and two of them, Daule
and Guano represented the area of PRONADER (Loan 3390-EC).
These rural ccntones contain several micro-climates ranging from 200 mts a.s.l. and up to 4.000 mts a.s.l.
with poor local economies based on agricultural activities. Testimonies confirmed that local populations
perceive themselves as blanco-mestizos peasants (colonos) who inhabit this region for more than
approximately three generations. This finding applies to all six micro-regions in the Project as they were
selected to not include indigenous people, so an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, as described in OD
4.20 would not apply to this Project. The main local survival strategies among poor peasant families,
combine small-scale agriculture and recurrent migration to national and international destinies. The SA
confirmed the high incidence of poverty and exclusion resulting from overlapping their geographical
isolation with low income, poor educational levels, poor market integration, lacking credit access and
deficient basic services provision.
The Social Assessment in the Project files provide the extensive information that was used to design
PROLOCAL. As a summary, the table below offers a synoptic view of the perceived needs relatively to the
Project components A, B and C, and to the need for rural financial services.
Gender Issues
The consulting group which carried out the SA received active assistance from the Bank's regional gender
studies team, which had already prepared the "Ecuador Gender Review 2000". This assured that field
methodologies and subsequent analysis had a gender equity perspective. The SA found that continuing
immigration of male heads of household to urban centers and foreign countries is enhancing the role of
women in agricultural production, commerce and in their communities. Their active roles in local
organizations and new sources of family income have made them key stakeholders for PROLOCAL. At
the same time the SA found evidence of a high rate of alcoholism among men with women being most
affected by domestic violence.
- 62 -



Table I
Indicators of perceptions by component and strategic objective of PROLOCAL
Component    Strategic Objective      Qualitative Result   Indicators for baseline for evaluation of
beneficiaries of the project
1.             Strengthening of the   1. 1 Capacity and    1. Perception by differentiated group consider
Management  local organizations     quality of the actors for that their demands to improve quality of life
of local       Empowerment of the  local development       are incorporated in the activities of the
development   different poverty      management has        organization.
groups               improved.               2. Perception by differentiated groups if the
1.2 Participatory     organizations represent them before the state
methodology applied in  and the institutions.
the formulation of plans 3. Perception by differentiated groups if the
and subprojects.      organizations are legal and democratically
1.3 Design of         constituted.
development plans     4. Perception by differentiated groups if the
realized               economic handling of the organization is
1.4 Design of         transparent.
subprojects realized.    5. Availability of communication systems
(telephone, computer, email).
6. Perception differentiated of the importance
of planning.
7. Perception by differentiated groups of the
degree of participation of the main
organizations and private and public
institutions in the elaboration of the plan.
8. Perception of the differentiated groups if
the main ideas of the action plan respond to
their demands.
9. Degree of responsibility by differentiated
groups that perceives to have in the
development plans.
10. Dimension of the demands of the plans
(short term versus development).
11. Adjustment of the project to the demands
differentiated by gender, ethnicity and age.
12. Opinion by gender, ethnicity and age
groups of the effectiveness and efficiency of
the project. 13. Opinion by gender, ethnicity
and age groups of the focus of the project
regarding the most poor.
14. Perception of women and men regarding
changes in the manner in which decisions are
made within the family.
- 63 -



2. Support to    Strengthen capacity   2.1 Institutional and  15. Perception differentiated of the technical
supplier of    of supply of local     social actors with      capacity and management of the local
services       development services.  adequate demand         personnel to carry out the activities of the
2.2 Increase of supplies plans and project in the microregion.
of local development    16. Perception differentiated of the technical
services               capacity and management of the local
2.3 Increase capacity of institutions to carry out the plans and project
supply services        in the microregion.
17. Demand differentiated demand of
training in participative methodologies,
communication, administration and
sustainable local development..
3.Local         Dispose of the        3.1 Co-investments      1. Demand differentiated of the services of
investment     necessary assets to    possibilities (resources  trained men and women.
fund           drive the local        not reimbursable)       2. Demand differentiated of the services of
development process   3.2 Institutional       the strengthened institutions by PROLOCAL
Projects that drive   suppliers providing    3. Perception differentiated of the roles that
local development      services               must be fulfilled in the functioning of the
3.3 Projects operating   PROLOCAL co-investment projects.
4. Assessment differentiated of the quality of
local development services in the
management of the development plans and
projects.
4.Strengthenin  Increase available    4.1 Local financial     5. Perception differentiated of power to be
g of rural     capital for            organizations with more subject of credit by type of local offerer
financial      development of the     technical capacity.     (bank, local cooperative ... )
systems.      local financial system.  4.2 Credit fund        6. Perception differentiated perception of
operating.             responsibility as opposed to the payment (to
4.3 Risk and guarantee  those who pay and those who do not)
fund operating.        7. Role of the different systems of credit in its
productive programming.
8. Confidence differentiated in the stability of
the credit service.
9. Confidence differentiated in the
transparency of the credit service.
10. Confidence of differentiated groups to
save by type of local offerer (bank, local
-cooperative).
- 64 -



