Page  1
September    , 1999
Dr. Benjamin Ortiz Brenan
Minister of External Affairs
Ministry of external Affairs
Avenida 10 de Agosto
Quito, ECUADOR
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the Rural Poverty 
Alleviation and Local Development Project
Grant (TF 025961)
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to 
make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred forty three thousand U.S. Dollars 
($343,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Ecuador (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. 
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in 
paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to 
contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the 
Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By____________________
Andrés Solimano
Director
Country Management Unit
for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Page  2
AGREED:
Republic of Ecuador
By:
Name:
Benjamín Ortiz Brenan
Title 
Minister of External Affairs
Date:
___________________
cc: Silvia Barragan M., Secretaria Ejecutiva, Agencia Ecuatoriana de Cooperacion Externa
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Rural Poverty Alleviation and 
Local Development Project, which has as main objective to improve access of poor 
cantones
 
(municipalities) to basic services, productive resources, employment, and knowledge (the Project).  
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) design of the component for capacity building and strengthening of local actors, which is 
estimated to cost US$ 26,900 equivalent;
(b) design of the component to support local financial institutions, which is estimated to cost 
US$30,700 equivalent; 
(c) design of the component for strengthening local actors, which is estimated to cost 
US$32,700 equivalent;
(d) design of the component to enhance human capital, which is estimated to cost US$46,100 
equivalent;
(e) design of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) component, which is estimated to cost 
US$30,700 equivalent;
(f)
carrying out of an institutional assessment, which is estimated to cost US$32,700 
equivalent;
(g)
carrying out of a social assessment, which is estimated to cost US$15,500 equivalent;
(h)
carrying out of an environmental assessment, which is estimated to cost US$31,700 
equivalent;
(i)
definition of the target population and regions with common social, cultural, economic 
and ecological characteristics, which is estimated to cost US$24,100 equivalent;
(j)
carrying out of an economic and financial analysis, which is estimated to cost US$30,000 
Page  3
equivalent; and
(k)
preparation of detailed project costs, which is estimated to cost US$41,900 equivalent.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient, through its 
Minister of Agriculture (
Ministerio de Agricultura)
,
shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent 
necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except 
those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than December 31, 2000, such later date as the 
Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  Except in special circumstances, no 
proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, 
and the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After the 
Closing Date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be governed, 
except as otherwise decided by the Bank after consultation with the Recipient, by the provisions of 
the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory 
of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any 
loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the 
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant provisions of Statement 
15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 (the Administrative Manual), the 
Page  4
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services of consulting firms for detailed design activities under paragraph 1 (a) through (k) of the 
Annex to this Letter-Agreement shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines (Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
3.
Services for technical assistance to the design of the Project components under paragraph 1 (a) 
through (k) shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
