Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7067-EC
Loan Agreement
(Poverty Reduction and Local Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 3, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7067-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 3, 2002, between the REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
on
October 1, 1997, the Borrower’s Congress passed a special law on State 
decentralization and social participation (Law No. 27 of 1997) that provides the legal framework 
for the administrative and financial decentralization of the Borrower’s Executive Branch at the 
subnational level through the delegation of technical-administrative powers to 
Cantones
 (as 
hereinafter defined); and
(C)
on October 23, 2000, the Borrower’s Congress passed an organic law on 
Parroquias
 (Law No. 29 of 2000) that provides the legal framework for the administrative and 
financial decentralization of the Borrower’s Executive Branch at the subnational level through 
the delegation of technical-administrative powers to 
Parroquias
 (as hereinafter defined); 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Implementation Plan” means any of the Project annual implementation plans 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
“
Cantón
” or 
“Cantones” 
means the political-administrative subdivision(s) of a Project 
Micro-region (as hereinafter defined) established under Article 234 of the Borrower’s 
Constitution;
(c)
“Certified Local Technician” means any local technician certified under Part B.1 (a) of 
the Project;
(d)
“Community” means the Borrower’s basic socio-territorial organizational level, 
Page  3
including 
anejos
, 
barrios
, and 
recintos
;
(e)
“Core Professional Staff” means the Project core professional staff that comprises: (i) for 
NCU (as hereinafter defined): an executive director, a technical coordinator, an administrative 
coordinator, a procurement specialist, three technical specialists, a monitoring and evaluation 
specialist, a communications specialist, a gender specialist and a systems specialist; and (ii) for 
each RCU (as hereinafter defined): a regional coordinator, and two technical specialists;
(f)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Environmental Procedures and Guidelines” means the environmental screening, 
assessment, prevention, mitigation and remediation procedures and guidelines for Local 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank (Supplemental Letter No. 1);
(i)
“Local Beneficiary Group” means any grassroots organization (with legal personality) or 
NGO (as hereinafter defined), operating in any of the Project Micro-regions (as hereinafter 
defined);
(j)
“Local Government” means any of the Borrower’s 
Cantón
 and 
Parroquia
 (as hereinafter 
defined) authorities with jurisdiction within any Project Micro-region (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
“Local Services Provider” means any: (i) Certified Local Technician; or (ii) local or 
national organization that operates at the local level through Certified Local Technicians;
(l)
“Local Services Provider Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Sections 3.10 or 3.11 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Local Subproject” means any subproject to be identified and prepared under Part A of 
the Project that is eligible for financing under Part C of the Project, as prescribed in the 
Operational Manual; 
(n)
“Local Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.12 
of this Agreement;
(o)
“MBS” means 
Ministerio de Bienestar Social
, the Borrower’s Ministry of Social 
Welfare;
(p)
“NCU” means the national coordination unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) (A) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
“Network” means any group of Local Services Providers that operates in a Project 
Micro-region (as hereinafter defined);
(r)
“NGO” means any non-governmental organization (with legal personality) that operates 
in a Project Micro-region (as hereinafter defined);
Page  4
(s)
“Operational Manual” means the Project operational manual referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) of this Agreement;
(t)
“
Parroquia
” or 
“Parroquias” 
means the political-administrative subdivision(s) of a 
Cantón
 established under Article 235 of the Borrower’s Constitution;
(u)
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement;
(v)
“Performance Indicators” means the Project performance indicators set forth in the letter 
of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank (Supplemental Letter No. 2);
(w)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 
4.02 of this Agreement;
(x)
“Project Micro-regions” means the following micro-regions in the territory of the 
Borrower: (i) South of Manabí; (ii) Western Los Ríos; (iii) Central Los Andes; (iv) Eastern Loja; 
(v) High Watershed of Jubones River; and (vi) Watershed of El Angel River;
(y)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance granted by the 
Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on June 22, 
2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on August 7, 2001;
(z)
“RCU” means any of the regional coordination units referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) 
(B) of this Agreement;
(aa)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(bb)
“Trigger Indicators” means the indicators to extend Project implementation to all Project 
Micro-regions set forth in the letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the Bank 
(Supplemental Letter No. 3).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty-five million two-hundred 
thousand dollars ($25,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
Page  5
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
Page  6
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MBS, with the participation of Local 
Beneficiary Organizations, Local Governments and Local Services Providers in respect of Parts 
A, B and C of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, management and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain:
(i)
a Project board with membership structure and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following responsibilities: (A) to 
provide policy guidelines for Project implementation; (B) to review and 
approve appointments of Core Professional Staff; (C) to review Project 
implementation reports and audits; and (D) to approve Annual 
Implementation Plans; and
(ii)
a Project coordination unit with structure and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, such unit to be composed of:
(A)
a national coordination unit responsible for: (1) overall Project 
management, monitoring, evaluation and reporting; (2) 
contracting the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement; (3) establishing and supervising RCUs; and (4) 
preparing Annual Implementation Plans on the basis of the 
Page  7
proposals submitted by RCUs;
(B)
a regional coordination unit in each Project Micro-region, 
responsible for: (1) procuring goods and consultants’ services 
for Part D of the Project; (2) approving Local Subprojects 
proposals presented by any Local Beneficiary Group; (3) 
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of Local 
Subprojects; (4) preparing proposals for Annual Implementation 
Plans with respect to each Project Micro-region; (5) 
coordinating annual performance reviews; and (6) conducting 
physical and financial oversight and auditing of the Local 
Beneficiary Groups, Local Governments and Local Services 
Providers operating in the respective Project Micro-region.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that PCU is staffed, at all times during the execution 
of the Project, by core professional staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, selected in accordance with 
competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the Bank, all as prescribed in the 
Operational Manual.
Section 3.04  The Borrower, through MBS, shall carry out the Project in two phases: 
(a)
a first phase in which activities will be limited to two Project Micro-regions 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b)
a second phase in which activities will be extended to all Project Micro-regions 
provided that the Bank shall be satisfied, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Project; and 
(ii) 
that the Trigger Indicators have been met.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to provide regulations for the 
coordination of Project implementation, including:
(i)
detailed disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures;
(ii)
specific procurement responsibilities, processes and internal controls;
(iii)
precise monitoring and evaluation plans for the Project;
(iv)
appropriate standards for the design of Local Subprojects, including 
Page  8
eligibility criteria and selection procedures;
(v)
simplified procedures for identification, preparation, approval and 
supervision of Local Subprojects, including the Environmental 
Procedures and Guidelines;
(vi)
applicable eligibility criteria and selection procedures for Local 
Beneficiary 
Groups, Local Governments, and Local Services 
Providers;
(vii)
independent complaint resolution mechanisms; and
(viii)
effective mechanisms for dissemination of information related to Local 
Subprojects.
(b)
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a provision of 
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, through PCU, shall:
(i)
not later than December 31 of  each year, furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, an annual implementation plan for the following 
calendar year prepared in consultation with Local Beneficiary Groups, 
Local Governments and Local Services Providers, such plan to specify: 
(A) the activities to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during 
such calendar year; and (B) the required financial and human resources; 
and
(ii) 
upon
the Bank’s approval, carry out such Annual Implementation Plan in 
accordance with its terms.
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any Annual Implementation Plan if the 
Bank has determined that the Borrower is not carrying out the Project as provided in this 
Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, satisfactory to the Bank, have been taken 
therefor.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about June 30 and December 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, 
commencing on June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
Page  9
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Bank by July 31 and January 31 of each year during the 
execution of the Project, commencing on July 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, as the case may be; and
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said reviews and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Project monitoring and evaluation, the Borrower, 
through NCU, shall:
(a)
not later than June 30 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 2003, 
conduct Project beneficiary assessments to determine perceptions of Local Beneficiary Groups 
about the progress towards the achievement of Project objectives, such assessments to be 
conducted with the assistance of independent consultants of experience and qualifications 
acceptable to the Bank operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
not later than July 30 of each year of Project implementation, furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comments, the results of such assessments; and
(c)
not later than August 31 of each year of Project implementation, discuss the 
results of such assessments with representatives of Local Beneficiary Groups, Local 
Governments and Local Services Providers, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Project monitoring and evaluation, the Borrower, 
through NCU, shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 2005, start an impact evaluation study to assess overall 
Project impact, such evaluation to be conducted with the assistance of independent consultants of 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, operating under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
not later than June 30, 2006 furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, 
the findings and recommendations of such study; and
(c)
not later than July 31, 2006 discuss the results of such study with representatives 
of Local Beneficiary Groups, Local Governments and Local Services Providers, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.10. With regard to Part A of the Project, the Borrower (through NCU) shall 
enter into an agreement with a Local Services Provider acceptable to the Bank, under terms and 
Page  10
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of:
(a)
conducting an inventory and evaluation of Local Beneficiary Groups;
(b)
carrying out a base-line survey to measure the social capital and execution 
capacities of such Local Beneficiary Groups; and 
(c)
preparing and implementing a capacity strengthening plan for such Local 
Beneficiary Groups.
Section 3.11. With regard to Part B of the Project, the Borrower (through NCU) shall 
enter into agreements with Local Services Providers acceptable to the Bank, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of:
(a)
surveying existing technical skills in Project Micro-regions and preparing 
capacity gap analyses;
(b)
preparing and implementing training programs to address such gaps and 
disseminate Project methodologies; and
(c)
promoting the establishment of local Networks through certification of their 
capabilities for purposes of Project implementation.
Section 3.12. With regard to Part C of the Project, the Borrower (through the RCUs) 
shall enter into agreements with Local Beneficiary Groups, Local Governments and/or Local 
Services Providers acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
providing for 
inter alia
:
(a)
the obligation of the Local Beneficiary Groups and/or the Local Governments to 
mobilize counterpart resources, procure the goods, works and services required for Local 
Subprojects and conduct the implementation of such Local Subprojects;
(b)
the obligation of the Local Services Providers to fill gaps in the Local 
Beneficiary Group implementation capacity identified during Local Subproject preparation, and 
to monitor counterpart contributions; and
(c)
the obligation of RCU to monitor Local Subproject expenditure accounts.
Section 3.13. (a) Prior to the approval of any proposed Local Subproject, RCUs shall 
follow the Environmental Procedures and Guidelines, in order to: (i) carry out an environmental 
screening of such proposed Local Subproject; and (ii) prepare recommendations for prevention, 
mitigation and remediation of any potential environmental damage arising from the 
Page  11
implementation of such proposed Local Subproject.
(b)
During the implementation of any Local Subproject, the Borrower, through 
RCUs, shall ensure that the Local Beneficiary Groups, the Local Governments and the Local 
Services Providers carry out the recommendations referred to in subparagraph (a) (ii) above as 
prescribed in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.14.
 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Local Services Provider 
Agreement and each Local Subproject Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
any Local Services Provider Agreement or any Local Subproject Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.15. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued achievement of Project 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
Page  12
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than six (6) months after the Effective Date or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
Page  13
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that Law No. 27 of 1997 or Law No. 29 of 2000 shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have appointed the Core Professional Staff for NCU;
(b)
the Borrower shall have issued the Operational Manual;
(c)
the Borrower shall have contracted the services of an independent consultant 
acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out a Project 
impact evaluation baseline survey; and
Page  14
(d)
(i) the Borrower shall have established a financial management system 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall have appointed the independent auditors 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date April 11, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Facsimile:
(5932) 569-386
           558-232
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
Page  15
of Columbia USA, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Ivonne A. Baki
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A
: General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (except as
1,800,000
100% of foreign 
provided in Category
expenditures and 80%
(3) below)
of local expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services
7,500,000
100%
(except as
provided in Category
(3) below) and training
Page  16
(3)
Goods, works and
services required
for Local Subprojects
11,850,000
100% of amounts
disbursed by the 
Borrower for said
Local Subprojects
(4)
Operating 
1,687,000
For expenditures    
Costs
made on or before
December 31, 2003: 
80%; for expenditures
made after December 31,
2003 but on or before 
December 31, 2005: 45%;
and thereafter: 30% 
(5)
Refunding of Project
1,114,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(6)
Fee
252,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
997,000
TOTAL
25,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the cost of: (i) operation and maintenance of 
vehicles; (ii) office equipment and computer maintenance; (iii) rental and refurbishment of office 
space, office utilities and office supplies of PCU; (iv) travel and per diem of personnel of PCU; 
and (v) salaries of PCU staff, all as provided in the applicable Annual Implementation Plans; and
(d)
the term “training” means the cost of: (a) per diem and travel expenses of 
trainees; (b) rental of training facilities and equipment; (c) training materials; and (d) training 
fees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
Page  17
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent, 
other than the first two contracts referred to in Part D.2 (a) (ii) of Section of I of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; (b) consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (d) training; (e) 
Local Subprojects; and (f) Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in its Central 
Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including in case of a commercial bank appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
Page  18
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 until the 
Page  19
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed $3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Page  20
Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed $4,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen local empowerment; (b) to improve 
the quality of local services; and (c) to increase access to productive assets, all aimed at 
improving the well-being of poor households in the Project Micro-regions.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:  Local Development Planning
Promotion of social capital formation through local participatory processes for the 
identification and preparation of Local Subprojects, through:
(a)
Coordination and Partnership
:
Carrying out of a communications campaign: (i) 
to familiarize Local Beneficiary Groups with Project strategies, opportunities, methodologies, 
criteria and procedures; and (ii) to raise awareness about various forms of social inequities, and 
rights of men and women.
(b)
Local planning
:
Provision of technical assistance through Local Services 
Providers to Local Beneficiary Groups to prepare participatory local development plans, 
including  proposals for Local Subprojects.
(c)
Information sharing
:
Dissemination of relevant information about Project 
activities at the local and national level.
Page  21
Part B
: Local Development Services
Development and implementation of local training programs through:
1.
Strengthening of Local Services Providers
:
(a)
Development of a cadre of certified local technicians in the areas of: (i) natural 
resource management, conflict resolution, water management for irrigation and human 
consumption; (ii) finance and agro-business administration; (iii) local development planning; (iv) 
Local Subproject analysis and management; and (v) social and gender equity; and
(b)
development of social capital by strengthening social relationships and 
commercial linkages among Certified Local Technicians by promoting local Networks and 
strengthening linkages between local and national Networks.
2.
Strengthening of human capital of grass-root organizations
:
Strengthening the managerial and technical capacity of existing grass-root organizations 
through the provision of technical assistance to leaders and technicians at the Community, 
Cantón
 and 
Parroquia
 level in the areas of: (a) institutional strengthening programs; (b) 
organizational technical aspects; (c) local development issues, participatory processes, conflict 
resolution, and negotiation skills; and (d) accounting and administration for the implementation 
of Local Subprojects.
3.
Strengthening of human capital of Local Governments and promotion of participatory 
processes
Carrying out of a training program for Local Governments in the areas of: (a) 
development issues and public administration; (b) institutional development programs; and (c) 
initiatives for participatory processes related to environmental regulations, civil rights, collective 
responsibilities, social organization and land-use planning.
4.
Information system on prices, technologies and market opportunities
Collection, examination and dissemination of information on prices, technologies and 
market opportunities at the local level through popular media channels and modern tele-centers 
that provide access to internet information.
Part C
: Local Subprojects
Establishment and operation of a demand-driven matching-grant fund to finance Local 
Subprojects in the areas of: (a) public infrastructure like roads, water supply systems, and health 
posts; (b) productive community assets, including value-added processing and marketing by 
Local Beneficiary Groups; (c) environmental and natural resource management investments; and 
Page  22
(d) social capital strengthening by building networks and links between Local Governments and 
civil society to deepen participatory processes.
Part D
: PCU
Establishment and operation of PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2009
  through October 15, 2020
4.17%
On April 15, 2021
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Page  23
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any 
Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal 
Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  
withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Page  24
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I, III and IV of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, and not exceeding in the aggregate $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not exceeding in the 
aggregate $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods, works and services for Local Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, as prescribed in the Operations Manual.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and 
Page  25
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 above; and (ii) the first two contracts for 
goods procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in C.2 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections II, III, 
and IV of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Page  26
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection or Fixed Budget
Services estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract but more than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured: (a) under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to 
least-cost selection; or (b) under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to fixed budget selection.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or less may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and not exceeding in the aggregate $2,180,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph.
Page  27
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, the terms of reference and short list of the consulting firms 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III
.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern the procurement of goods 
under Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the responsive 
bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of capability and whose bid has 
been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the amount or 
amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the 
quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest 
evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of bid 
evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid 
amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors.
2.
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids submitted for a contract to be 
Page  28
subsequently awarded.
3.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (
legalizar
)
their bidding documents 
or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Ecuadorian authorities as a 
prerequisite of bidding.
4.
The Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
B.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment of 
consultants:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or indirectly, to give any 
participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to provide services, to be 
registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for Ecuadorian firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required to pay fees to the 
Ecuadorian Consultants’ Association that are different from those required for Ecuadorian 
consultants.
5.
No consultant financed by proceeds of this Loan
 
shall, at the time he or she is carrying 
out his or her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or any other position 
in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadorian public sector entity, nor shall such consultant 
have any right to re-entry into any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her 
consulting services.
Section IV
: Internal Approvals
With respect to any procurement of goods and works, and any employment of 
consultants to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents, 
or requests of proposals or contracts required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given by 
MBS.
