RESTRICTED
FLE       COPY                   Report No. P-638
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept. responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
September 12, 1968



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESID)ENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRETORS ON A PROPOSED LQAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.3 million to
the Republic of Zambia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In January 1967, the Government of Zambia applied for a Bank
loan to help finance a portion of a long-term afforestation program pre-
pared by the Forest Department of Zambia's Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism. The loan application was prepared with the assistance of the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The program which provides for the gradual
establishment (up to 1993) of 75,000 acres of pine and 30,000 acres of
eucalypt plantations was appraised by a Bank mission in July 1967. The
project now recommended provides for Bank financing of the estimated
foreign exchange cost of an eight-year period of plantation establishment.
3.        Progress in preparation of the documents was delayed until
proper arrangements could be worked out concerning organization and manage-
ment. The Government prepared its proposals concerning project adminis-
tration (see para 13) which were investigated by a Bank mission in May 1968
and found satisfactory.
4.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in August 1968.
The borrower was represented by a delegation led by Mr. E. G. Kasonde,
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, and including Mr. A.
Hamilton, Chief Conservatory of Forests, Mr. V. A. McInnes from the Ministry
of Finance, Mr. D. Crapper from the Office of National Development and Plan-
ning, and Mr. D. Gray from the Department of Legal Affairs; Mr. P. K.
Musukwa from the Zambian Embassy also attended
5.        The first lending by the Bank in independent Zambia was a road
loan (h69-ZA) made in 1966. Previously the Bank made two loans for rail-
ways in Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia) and Southern Rhodesia and two loans
for power to the Central African Power Corporation, jointly owned by Zambia
and Southern Rhodesia. Zambia has since assumed responsibility for its
share of these loans. Each of the pre-independence loans is guaranteed by
the United Kingdom. There have been no IDA operations in Zambia. The
following is a summary statement of Bank loans in Zambia as of August 31,
1968:



-2-
Amount (US$ million)
Loan No.   Year     Borrower             Purpose        Bank    Undisbursed
74-NR     1953     Zambia               Railways       14.0       -
145-RN     1956     Central African      Electric power 40.0-      -
Power Corporation-
1/
197-RN     1958     Zambia7              Railways        9.5       -
392-RNS    1964     Central African      Electric power  3.852/    -
Power Corporation
469-ZA     1966      Zambia              Roads          17.5       10.4
Total (less cancellations)                   84.8
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                        21.6
Total now outstanding                        63.2
Amount sold:                  37.6
of which has been repaid 18.2             19.4
Total now held by Bank                       43.8
Total undisbursed                            10.4       10.4
6.         Since June 1, 1966, the Central African Power Corporation has
been unable to obtain the foreign exchange from the governments of Southern
Rhodesia and Zambia for payments under the 1956 and 1964 loans. Zambia
and the United Kingdom have each made one-half of these payments as guarantor.
7.         I am submitting simultaneously a proposed loan of US$10.7 million
for a second road project.  It is expected that an educat.on loan of about
US$17 million will be ready for negotiations within the next few months, and
a livestock development project may be ready for presentation by the end of
this fiscal year.   I may also submit proposals for the financing of an
extension to the power installations at Kariba which were financed by Loan
145-RN of 1956.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.         Borrower:                 Republic of Zambia
Amount:                  Various currencies equivalent to
US$5.3 million
1/ As a result of Loan Assumption Agreements entered into in connection
with the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland at
the end of 1963.
2/ Amount guaranteed by Zambia, i.e., one-half of loan.



-3 -
Purpose:                 To help finance an eight-year portion
of Zambia's long term industrial
afforestation program, including the
planting of 2,500 acres of pine and
2,500 acres of eucalypt per year.
Amortization:            In 25 years including a ten-year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments beginning July 15, 1978 and end-
ing July 15, 1993.
Interest Rate:           0i9 per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report on the proposed project entitled "Industrial Forestry
Project - Zambia" (TO-605c, dated September 11, 1968) is attached.
10.       Zambia has always been a net importer of forest products.  Apart
from some teak forests, exploitable local forest reserves are limited to
a slow-growing, low-yielding wood which is being used mainly in the copper
industry and for firewood. Economically accessible reserves of this type
will have been largely exhausted by the late 1970's. The project aims at
replacing them with fast-growing,high-yielding wood species, suitable
for various uses. Demand projections foresee attractive market prospects
for the output in the mining and building industries ard as transmission
poles.
11.       The project is part of the borrower's forest development program
which is designed to establish by 1993 30,000 acres of eucalypt and 75,000
acres of pine plantations in three main blocks located within the copper
mining region of Zambia. The project commences January 1, 1969 and consists
of an eight-year portion of the program including the planting of 2,500
acres of eucalypt and 2,500 acres of pine each year, and the maintenance
of the plantations. The Project would contribute to a diversification of
Zambia's primary production, result in substantial foreign exchange savings,
and is expected to stimulate the establishment of secondary wood-using
industries.  The rate of return to the economy is estimated at 13 percent.
The financial rate of return would be about 10 percent.
12.       The cost of the project is estimated at US $11.1 million equivalent,
including adequate provision for contingencies to cover possible price and
wage increases.  The proposed loan would cover the estimated foreign exchange
component of $5.3 million. The Government will cover the local currency
requirements.



13.       The project will be managed by the Industrial Plantations Division
of the Forest Department of the Ministry of Na-tural Resources and Tourism.
The Government has taken measures to ensure that the activities of the
Division will be carried out on a commercial basis. A separate budget
will be maintained for the Division and allocations from the Government
Budget will be entirely distinct from other Forest Department or other
Ministry allocations. The project accounts will be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The Government has also modified its
normal regulations relating to staffing, purchasing procedures and sale of
produce in order to assure the Division sufficient freedom of action. The
above procedures will allow the Division to run on commercial lines, while
retaining the benefits of various common services shared by the Division
with other entities of the Forest Department. The Government will also
undertake in lieu of insuring the plantations against fire, insect or
fungal attack, disease or climatic abnormality, that if in any calendar year
more than 100 but less than 1,000 acres are destroyed, they will be replaced
within four years; should the destruction be more extensive, the Government
will consult with the Bank about remedial measures.
14.       Contracts amounting to $15,000 or more for the purchase of tractors,
bulldozers, graders, trucks and personnel vehicles and for land clearing
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Contracts
for the purchase of fire tenders and other small items of plantation
equipment and for materials for the construction of buildings and roads
would not be subject to international competitive bidding since the tenders
would be too small and the equipment too diversified; for these, com-
petitive local bidding procedures would be applied. Construction of
buildings and roads and planting and maintenance of trees would be done by
the Industrial Plantations Division using its own labor.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Zambia and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
16.       1fthile this is the first loan agreement for a forestry project,
it conforms substantially to the pattern of agreements used for certain
compara'ble agricultural projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       An economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of
Zambia" (AF-81a) dated August 8, 1968, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 27, 1968.



18.     The Zambian economy is heavily dependent on copper, which produces
nearly half of the GDP, two-thirds of Government revenues and comprises
over 90 percent of exports. The sharp increases in copper prices since
1964 have more than offset the increase in costs of production and a tem-
porary reduction in output, and have mitigated the adverse oconomic effects of
Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI) in November 1965.
19.     Copper prices are now falling, howJever, while production costs may
rise further. As a result, even assuming an increased volume of production,
government receipts from copper are likely to decline, at the same time as
public expenditures increase. Consequently, budget and external deficits are
virtually certain to appear in the next years.  These factors qualify ZambiaK
short and medium term prospects. The long term outlook for economic
development, however, is good. Export prospects for copper are reasonable,
while tobacco, poultry and confectionery groundnuts have good export
potential. Import substitutes in the agricultural sector, such as beef,
cotton, sugar, and dairy products, have substantial opportunities for growth,
as have a range of manufactures including cement, timber products and metal
products. Zambiats basic economic strength and long range growth potential,
combined with the present low level of external public debt, justifies her
borrowing abroad to help finance important development projects.
PART VI - CO0TLTANCE W4ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECMENDATION
21.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Republic of Zambia in an amount
equivalent to US $5,300,000.00
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the
Republic of Zambia in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million three hundred thousand
United States dollars (US $5,300,000.00), to mature on
and prior to July 15, 1993, to bear intQrest at the
rate of six and a half percenb (6g) per annm, and to



- 6 -
be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Industrial
Forestry Project) between the Republic of Zambia and
the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment:
Washington, D.C.
September 12, 1968



