Document of                     FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3000-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 31, 1981
ITs document bus a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients ony in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without World BDank authodzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   - Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         -  Rp 625
Rp 100          -  US$0.160
Rp 1 million    -  US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
DGA            -  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
(Ministry of Interior)
BAKOSURTANAL   -  The National Coordination Board for Surveys
and Mapping
BTN            -  Bank Tabungan Negara
Cipta Karya    -  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning
and Urban Development (Ministry of Public Works)
Dalam Negeri   - Ministry of Interior
GOI            -  Government of Indonesia
IPEDA          -  National Urban Property Tax
KIP            -  Kampung Improvement Program
ODA            -  Official Development Assistance
PERUMNAS       -  National Urban Development Corporation
Project Cities -  Banjarmasin, Samarinda, Pontianak, Padang,
Jogjakarta, Palembang, Denpasar, Semerang, and Jambi
PUOD           -  Directorate General of Public Administration and
Regional Autonomy (Ministry of Interior)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    The cities of Banjarmasin, Samarinda, Pontianak, Padang,
Jogjakarta, Palembang, Denpasar, Semerang and Jambi
(defined as the Project Cities), and PERUMNAS (the
National Urban Development Corporation).
Amount:            $43 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% per annum.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds to be lent to the Project Cities and PERUMNAS
will be onlent at an annual interest rate of not less than
one-quarter of one percent (1/4%) higher than the interest
rate of the Bank loan, with a repayment period of 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The project would support the Government's efforts to
implement national programs to provide essential urban
services and housing. It would include: (a) provision of
basic infrastructure services including water supply, sani-
tation, roads, footpaths, drainage, schools and health
facilities, to about 800,000 persons living in low income
neighborhoods in the Project Cities; (b) land acquisition,
construction of infrastructure and housing facilities in
Denpasar, Samarinda, Jogjakarta, Padang, Semerang and
Jambi; (c) citywide improvements in Denpasar, including
solid waste management and extension of water supplies;
(d) training equipment and materials for about 470
community health workers; (e) 1:1000 scale photogrammetric
maps for about 100 large and medium-sized cities; and (f)
technical assistance and consulting services in: planning
and implementation of kampung improvements; improvements
in municipal tax collection; preparation of feasibility
studies and engineering designs for drainage improvements
in Banjarmasin and Samarinda; training in urban
development programming for municipalities; developing
PERUMNAS' planning and management capabilities; developing
capacities in BTN for functioning as a housing bank;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their o(hcial duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
supervision of photogrammetric mapping: planning,
coordinating and programming of large-scale mapping services
by BAKOSURTANAL and preparation of future urban projects.
As the shortage of technical and administrative skills in
the Project Cities and urban mapping firms in Indonesia
presents some risk to project implementation, the technical
assistance components have been designed to address
specific weaknesses.
Estimated Costs/i                                     Local      Foreign      Total
…$ million---------
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP)                   13.4         8.2        21.6
Sites and Services                                 20.7          6.1        26.8
Denpasar City-Wide Infrastructure                    1.4         1.5         2.9
Urban Mapping                                        3.0         5.6         8.6
Studies, Consulting Services and
Technical Assistance                              2.3          6.4         8.7
Base Cost                                      40.8        27.8         68.6
Physical Contingencies                               1.0         0.6         1.6
Price Contingencies                                  9.1         6.8        15.9
Total Project Costs                            50.9        35.2        86.1
Financing Plan:                                       Local      Foreign      Total
-------$ million…--------
Bank                                                 7.8        35.2        43.0
Government, PERUMNAS and the Project cities    43.1                -        43.1
Total                                          50.9        35.2        86.1
Estimated               Bank FY:      1982   1983   1984    1985    1986   1987
Disbursements:
Annual:        4.0   12.2    12.5   11.3        2.9    0.1
Cumulative:    4.0   16.2    28.7   40.0    42.9   43.0
Rate of Return:   18% for the project components for which benefits can be
quantified (these account for about 74% of project cost).
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3132a-IND, dated March 16, 1981.
/1   The tax element in the project is insignificant.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $43 million to help
finance a Fourth Urban Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum. The
proceeds to be lent to the Project Cities and PERUMNAS will be onlent at an
annual interest rate of not less than one-quarter of one percent (1/4%)
higher than the interest rate of the Bank loan, with a repayment period of
20 years, including 5 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," will be completed
shortly. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the
country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145
million people /1 it is the world-s fifth most populous nation. The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where almost 65%
of the population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the
rest of the country; over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP
per capita is estimated to be $365./2
4.        The economy has grown at an annual rate of 6-8% for over a decade -
the highest sustained growth rate of any low income country. Until about the
end of the First Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), this rapid
growth was largely due to effective recovery from the severe dislocations of
the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to
restore and then maintain macroeconomic stability, to liberalize the economy
and provide incentives for investment. There was a major rehabilitation of
/1 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/2 Estimate for 1979.



- 2 -
the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP.
Since then, growth has been greatly assisted by international developments,
in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices and the commodity boom.
The oil enclave is of particular importance to the structure of the economy.
Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in 1973 to $7.0 billion in 1979,
while physical production increased less than 20%. This has had a direct
effect on the balance of payments - in 1979/80 a current account surplus, of
$2.0 billion, was recorded for the first time since independence. Although
production linkages with other sectors have been very weak, the oil
enclave has had an important influence on overall growth through the infusion
of foreign exchange resources into the economy. Since a significant fraction
of these resources accrue to GOI through taxation of oil companies- profits,
the public sector has been one of the major channels for the increased
expenditure. Central Government expenditures have been rising at about 15%
annually. These factors contributed to a growth rate of over 6% for GDP,
with 12% for construction and 9% for services. Manufacturing has also grown
rapidly, at 11% p.a., but it still accounts for less than 10% of GDP,
compared with 13% for all low income countries. In agriculture, growth has
been largely determined by supply factors, and has been about 3%"' p.a.; as a
result its share of GDP has declined from 40% to 30%. Despite the favorable
general indicators, the economy remains very underdeveloped and the non-oil
situation is still one of persistent deficit. To lay the foundations for a
post-oil future, a broad-based expansion of industrial production and of both
industrial and agricultural exports will be required in the 1980s.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Despite the rapid growth in output, equivalent to a growth rate of
per capita income of about 5% p.a., Indonesia remains an extremely poor
country. Over 60% of the population, some 90 million persons, are estimated
to be living in conditions of absolute poverty. There are conflicting views
on the extent to which the poor have shared in economic growth. However, the
1970 and 1976 National Household Expenditure Surveys suggest a rate of growth
of per capita income of 3.5-5.2% p.a. for the poorest 40% of households, and
a reduction in poverty incidence of at least 10% between the two years.
Rural/urban income disparities have widened, while intra-rural and
inter-regional income distribution appear to have improved. Although a large
majority of the poor live in rural areas, especially on Java, where landless
laborers form a large proportion of the populat'on, poverty is also serious
in urban areas, where it is compounded by poor and overcrowded living
conditions.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes. Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a. during the
1970s. In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and
about 6% in urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence
amongst young educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary
school education. The changing structure of employment, though very differ-
ent from that of production, is a reflection of the same underlying factors.
In the period 1971-78 manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase in



- 3 -
employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period.
Because the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby
encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance
for the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing renumerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.        Indonesia's basic social indicators directly reflect the prevalence
of poverty. While impressive progress has been made in primary education,
where universal primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future,
secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-developed - this
is one of the main reasons for the current manpower shortage. Health
indicators are also generally poor - life expectancy is only 47 compared
with 50 for all low-income countries and 60 for Thailand and the
Philippines.  Indonesia's infant mortality rate of 126 is almost double the
rates prevailing in these two other South East Asian countries.  Every year
almost 700,000 infants less than one year old die.  Low incomes, inadequate
water and sanitation facilities - only 12% of the population has access to
safe water - and a relatively high population to physician ratio are key
factors explaining the situation. The area of family planning, however, has
been a notable success. As a consequence of the National Family Planning
Program, established in 1970, fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on
Java and Bali, where almost 50% of married women in the productive age group
practice modern methods of contraception.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year Development Plan,
Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84) are equity, growth and the maintenance
of national stability. The fact that Indonesia's resource position is
likely to be favorable for most of the 1980s presents the country with an
unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to bring about the
adjustments required to realize these goals.
9.        Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run develoment, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resources into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation. This emphasizes the importance of a
distribution of incremental expenditure in favor of improving sectoral
supply responses. In particular, it is important that a reasonable



-4-
expansion of credit to the private sector be maintained - in the past this
has been excessively squeezed to maintain monetary stability. This could
entail a slower rate of expansion of GOI expenditure.
10.       The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical
importance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of large-
scale industrial investments in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated invest-
ment cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but
will have very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for
employment is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufac-
turing. The 1978 devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar signifi-
cantly improved the profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and
export industries and was accompanied by a system of export certificates
(tax rebates) to provide additional incentives. However, by mid-1980 over
half of the gains in competitiveness in manufactured exports and import
substitutes had been eroded by domestic inflation. In addition, private
industry continues to be constrained by cumbersome administrative procedures,
a wide variation in rates of effective protection, and limitations on the
availability of credit. These require effective policy reforms. The
favorable resource position provides an opportunity for rationalizing the
tariff structure and improving the investment climate, accompanied, where
necessary, by selected adjustment assistance to adversely affected
industries. Import liberalization would also help to maintain short-run
stability to the extent that it takes pressure off tight domestic markets.
The construction industry requires special attention, as limited capacity is
currently a critical constraint on new investment and is contributing to
higher inflationary pressures. To encourage its rapid expansion, measures
should be taken to provide additional finance, through the banking system
and equity participation, and to increase the availability of skills,
through training and relaxation of restrictions on the use of foreign
specialists.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food
production and employment.  Rice production has been steadily rising to a
record level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a
decade earlier, largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure
in irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be
the main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops
have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is
now very old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and
replanting. This will require substantial investment in manpower and
improved organization of distribution and marketing.
12.       Human resources development is of central importance.  The
lack of skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely
due to the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although



-5-
the high rates of employment amongst secondary school leavers suggest
a major mismatch between supply and demand at this level. In the short run
there is scope for better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap
training schemes, while available foreign exchange resources could be used to
finance fellowships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills.
The poor health indicators provide a strong justification for the use of
incremental resources in this sector. However, increased outlays on health
infrastructure and urban and rural water supply will have to be complemented
by the development of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling
health problems, involving the participation of local communities. The
successful family planning program provides a good model.
13.        Other sectors also require effective policy action.  In the energy
sector the rapid growth in consumption of oil and LNG accounts for almost
all of the consumption of modern sources of energy and could significantly
reduce the resource surplus. Diversification will require the development
of hydropower, geothermal and coal resources, and a reduction in the high
rate of subsidization of petroleum products. The transport sector is a major
beneficiary of the fuel subsidy; this has shifted demand away from more fuel-
efficient systems.
14.        The activity of the public sector will have a critical influence on
long-run development. The oil windfall has substantially improved GOI
revenue: total revenue increased from Rp 5 trillion in 1978/79 to Rp 14
trillion budgeted for 1981/82, of which 70% derives from oil; Government
expenditures now account for around 30% of GDP. A significant fraction of
incremental resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to public and
private consumption in the form of higher civil service and military
salaries from initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities. Subsidies
on petroleum products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly to a
budgeted level of over $3 billion in 1981/82. Although this has shielded the
economy from sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to be
limited and consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not been
the very poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the
extent that it now appears that the financial constraint is often less
important than nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of
skilled manpower, the capacity of the construction industry and limited
administrative capability. The administrative framework for project
implementation was greatly improved in 1979 by the introduction of simplified
appropriation procedures and the adoption of post-auditing practices. How-
ever, restrictions in eligibility of certain smaller contracts to small
firms controlled by economically weak groups is likely to delay local project
implementation. Wider issues of administration, including the questLon of
decentralization, are also under review. An additional problem affecting the
productivity of public investment is inadequate maintenance of existing
infrastructure, of-particular importance in irrigation and roads.



- 6 -
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI's budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to main-
tain the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since
expenditure from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expend-
iture from oil revenue. Non-oil tax revenue as a proportion of non-mining GDP
actually declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and
1980/81. It is critical that the capacity of the tax system be increased
through expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving admin-
istration. There is also great scope for mobilization of resources through
reduction of the budgetary subsidies on petroleum and other products. A
steady rise in domestic petroleum prices to the international level during
the 1980s would have a major impact on budget savings as well as encouraging
alternative energy uses and eliminating distortions.
16.       External financing of Government expenditure is budgeted at $2.4
billion in 1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40%
in 1978/79. Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about
$15 billion at the end of 1980; including undisbursed amounts, external
public debt totalled almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on
Indonesia remains the principal source of external capital, including
Official Development Assistance (ODA) to the country. New commitments in
1980 were almost equal to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank's 1980
economic memorandum on Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are
estimated to have reached $1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased
availability of foreign exchange, capital inflows are no longer required on
resource grounds, at least in the medium term. However there is still an
urgent need for the technical assistance embodied in foreign loans. It is
anticipated that ODA will continue at a reduced real level, and on harder
terms in the first half of the 1980s. It is of particular importance that
external finance be used to support policies designed to prevent the
re-emergence of the resource deficit toward the end of the decade. There is
much greater scope for utilizing the foreign exchange reserves in place of
public sector commercial borrowings - these should decline while the
resource surplus continues. It is anticipated that the public debt service
ratio, with oil exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of 10-12%
for the first half of the 1980s.
17.       In the past, selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended on the grounds that finance of only the foreign exchange cost of
projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's capital requirements. In view
of the present favorable resource position, in the future local cost
financing will be limited to projects of key importance and where such
financing is required to ensure a significant Bank contribution.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       As of March 31, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling $931.8 million, and 54 Bank loans amounting to $3,464.0 million. IFC
investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of January 31, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-
scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
19.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans,a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then increasingly toward the
expansion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Reflecting in part
the successes of the first two Plan periods Repelita III, published in early
1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but departed
from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable income
distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in line
with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater attention
to employment generation, particularly in the industrial sector, and
improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
20.       While in many respects Indonesia's basic development constraints
and issues remain unchanged, the resources surplus discussed in Part I of
this report provides GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its
development effort. This will require the articulation of a coherent set of
policies designed to promote employment through the development of an
efficient industrial sector; the acceleration of irrigation and tree crop
development programs; increased emphasis on measures designed to alleviate
critical manpower constraints, particularly at the intermediate and higher
levels; and the development of innovative low-cost programs designed to meet
the basic needs of the population. Special attention will also have to be
given to alleviating institutional and administrative bottlenecks which
currently inhibit plan implementation. The Bank's own program of lending and
economic and sector work is being geared to support GOI's efforts to address
these issues. For example, the Bank is planning to significantly expand its
hitherto modest involvement in the industrial sector. An industrial sector
report which focuses on policy issues is being completed and additional



-8-
economic work designed to provide the necessary understanding for an expanded
involvement in the sector is under way. An "Apex" operation designed to
support industrial lending through several financial intermediaries is being
prepared and projects designed to support engineering industries, export
processing, small-scale industry as well as some large scale enterprises are
at various stages of identification and preparation. Initiatives are also
planned in the energy sector. Indonesia is overly dependent on oil for its
own energy consumption. In an effort to help Indonesia articulate an energy
development program of domestic energy sources as well as a rational set of
domestic pricing policies (para. 15 above), the Bank has embarked on a
significant program of energy sector work. This is also expected to result
in a number of projects suitable for Bank participation.
21.       Outside industry and energy, no major shifts in the balance of Bank
lending are expected. Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a
substantial portion of Bank agricultural lending and continued support for
the provision of basic services (population, education, health, nutrition,
urban development and water supply) and transport is anticipated. However,
it is expected that these operations will increasingly focus on institutional
changes and policy issues and that they will be gradually broadened to a
subsector and sector basis to have a broader impact than hitherto. For
example, a proposed maritime transport project would focus, inter alia, on
required regulatory reforms and a planned health project would attempt to
improve low-cost health care systems. The justification for Bank lending will
thus depend more on technical assistance rather than resource transfers.
22.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to
be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI
and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project-specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of
these reviews was held in June 1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in
September 1980. In addition, a procurement seminar was held in Jakarta in
September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the GOI has
taken several measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce
initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being
presented for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle.
Indications are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking
place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million
in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80; considerably higher disbursements are
projected in FY81 (if the performance of the first six months of this fiscal
year continues, disbursements for FY81 will exceed $400 million). While it is



-9-
important that the Bank and the GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are
encouraging.
23.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia-s much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
24.       The proposed project constitutes the fifth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Previously approved
loans include the Smallholder Coconut Development, University Development,
Swamp Reclamation and Tenth Power projects. Projects under advanced stage of
preparation and appraisal include the Jakarta Cikampek highway, second small
enterprise development, fifth nucleus estates and smallholders, Bukit Asam
mining and second seeds projects.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
25.       Indonesia's urban population of 31 million (21% of total population
in 1979) is expected to grow to 70-78 million (37.5% of total) by the year
2000 given the recent growth trend of about 3.5% per annum. Although
Indonesia's urban population growth rate is moderate, the growth of total
urban population is large in absolute numbers: approximately I million
persons are added to its urban centers annually. A disproportionate number
(40%) of the increase is occurring in Jakarta (over 8 million population in
1977) and Surabaya (2.7 million population in 1979) which, with the eight
next largest cities, comprise 55% of the total urban population.
26.       Employment in Indonesian cities is predominantly concentrated in
six sectors: public and domestic services (33%), trade (26%), agriculture
(13%), manufacturing (9.5%), transport and communications (8%), and
construction (6.5%). While total urban employment increased at a faster
pace than urban population in the 1970s, simultaneous increases in the
proportion of the working age population and the increased labor force
participation resulted in an increased urban unemployment rate, from
4.8% in 1971 to 6.4% in 1976. Underemployment is probably considerably
worse since working two days per week officially classifies a person as
employed, and a significant number of persons are employed in extremely
low-productivity trades such as hawkers, vendors, becak (tricycle transport)
drivers and petty retail traders. Urban incomes are generally low, with
about 57% of urban residents having incomes below $221 per capita (1980),
the estimated absolute urban poverty level.



- 10 -
27.       Essential infrastructure is severely deficient in Indonesia's
urban areas. Less than a third of the urban population has access to safe,
reliable public water supply; only four cities have sewage systems and these
are old, of inadequate capacity and cover only part of each city; only an
estimated 17% of the population has safe, sanitary latrines while 25% have
no facilities for human waste disposal; and approximately 40% of the housing
supply consists of nonpermanent structures. Kampungs, the clustered, densely
populated urban neighborhoods, are especially deficient in infrastructure
and services. Public health conditions are particularly poor and infant
mortality is substantially higher in the worst kampungs than overall in
Indonesia.
Programs and Policies: Repelita I-III
28.       The Kampung Improvement Program (KIP), initiated by the GOI in
1969, is the major program being supported by GOI for upgrading of poorly
serviced urban neighborhoods by improvements, especially access to water
supply and sanitation, and public health. The program which began initially
in Jakarta was expanded to a national program during Repelita II. The KIP
approach emphasizes providing basic minimum standards so that all unserviced
areas can be provided with essential services over a reasonable period of
time. By 1980, GOI had expanded KIP to about 35 cities (5 with the
assistance of the Bank).
29.       At the beginning of Repelita II, a ministerial-level policy
committee, the National Housing Board, was established to set overall
direction for low-cost housing. PERUMNAS (the National Urban Development
Corporation) was also established to construct low- and moderate-income
housing (including sites and services) and Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN) was
assigned responsibility for mortgage financing. A target of constructing
70,000 housing units by PERUMNAS (50% to be sites and services) for the
income group between the 20th to the 70th percentile was established and met
for Repelita II.
30.       Building on the policy and institutional base established during
Repelita II, a number of objectives, policies and programs were established
for Repelita III. Five of the objectives are particularly pertinent: (a)
improve the level of urban services in 150 small towns (5,000-50,000
population), 49 medium-sized cities (50,000-500,000 population) and 10 large
cities (over 500,000 population); (b) increase equity in the provision of
social services and income distribution; (c) promote employment generation
in small and cottage industries; (d) achieve more balanced regional
development; and (e) upgrade the environment. Sector programs have been
based on these objectives. PERUMNAS is to build 120,000 units (50% sites
and services) in 80 cities during Repelita III for the same target income
group as in Repelita II. BTN will provide mortgage financing for this
program as well as for an additional 30,000 privately developed units.
While these programs represent an impressive expansion in coverage, they
would fall considerably short of PERUMNAS- estimate of a need for 950,000
units in 80 target cities during Repelita III.



- 11 -
31.       A program to eventually extend KIP to the 200 cities targeted in
the Repelita III objectives is underway in Cipta Karya (the Directorate
General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban Development in the Ministry
of Public Works) and Dalam Negeri (Ministry of Interior). Local govern-
ments, under the administrative control of Dalam Negeri, are being
encouraged to develop and implement programs for kampung improvement with
assistance from Cipta Karya. To encourage local participation, GOI
will provide grants to local governments to enable them to start KIPs
aimed at achieving the lowest standards. However, if a city agrees to add
its own resources to undertake an expanded program, Cipta Karya will extend
grants to meet half the costs of the larger program. For water supply, the
central government also provides grants to the local governments, to provide
60 liters per capita per day for 60% of the projected 1985 population.
The Project Cities /1
32.       The project cities are grouped into two sets.  The first set con-
sists of seven cities for which KIP or sites and services components have
already been designed and appraised by the Bank; these include Banjarmasin,
Pontianak, Samarinda, Denpasar, Palenbang, Padang and Jogjakarta. The
second set consists of three cities for which sites and services projects
are to be prepared by PERUTINAS (to be reviewed by the Bank as part of the
institutional development process); these include Semarang, Jambi, and an
additional investment in Padang.
33.       The cities involved in the project represent another step inI the
development of the national KIP and sites and services programs. They are
all provincial capitals and growth centers, medium-sized by Indonesian
classification (except Palembang) and distributed among the provinces of
Kalimantan, Bali, Sumatera, and Java. This development is a logical
extension of Bank involvement in the urban sector which originated in
Jakarta and has since been extended to Surabaya, Semarang and Surakarta in
Java, and Ujung Pandang in Sulawesi.
Bank Experience and Sector Strategy
34.       KIP has formed the basis for the three previous Bank-assisted
projects in the urban sector (Loans 1040-IND, 1336-IND, and 1653-IND). Under
these projects, minimum basic services have been brought within reach of some
three million low-income residents of densely populated kampungs in Jakarta,
Surabaya, Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta. In addition to KIP
activities, project components have included improvements in water supply and
sanitation, solid waste management and disposal, training of community health
workers, sites and services, and a variety of assistance in improving the
institutional capacities of agencies involved in urban development. All of
/1   All population figures are 1980 estimates.



- 12 -
these activities have been, or are being, implemented successfully. Although
the sites and services component under Loan 1040-IND was completed two years
behind schedule, the objective of introducing and expanding the concept as a
complementary program to KIP is being realized.
35.       The major persisting difficulties in urban development in Indonesia
are overcentralized administration, weak municipal revenues, and limited
institutional capacity to implement sectoral programs. Assistance has been
given under previous projects for improvements in land registration, property
taxation, municipal administration and building the capacities of Cipta
Karya, BTN and PERUMNAS. While encouraging progress has been made, efforts
in these areas need to continue. A new area of concern is urban mapping; a
major constraint to rapid expansion of urban services and associated measures
to improve property taxation has been the lack of adequate maps. This is now
being addressed by the initiation of an expanded photogrammetric mapping
program for urban areas.
36.       The Bank's strategy for further involvement in the urban sector is
to: (a) support GOI's initiatives in KIP, water supply and housing
(especially sites and services) by aiding the developing and/or strengthening
of local government capacity for implementation; (b) strengthen provincial/
local capacities to plan, implement and integrate urban programs in their
overall development activities; (c) expand coverage of the urban service
programs in the larger cities to include overall municipal infrastructure
programs, and promote capital programming and budgeting; and (d) develop and
strengthen the capacities of central institutions to plan, implement and/or
supervise national programs, thus enabling GOI to take on increasing
responsibility for program preparation and supervision.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       The proposed project was identified and prepared by Cipta Karya
with assistance from consultants financed under the Second Urban Project
(Loan 1336-IND). The project was appraised in May 1980. A Staff Appraisal
Report, No. 3132a-IND, is being distributed separately. Supplementary data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
February 23 to March 4, 1981; the GOI delegation was led by Mr. Radinal
Mochtar, Director General of Cipta Karya.
Project Objectives
38.       The project has three principal objectives.  First, it is designed
to support GOI's efforts to implement nationwide programs of kampung
improvement and sites and services, by extending these programs to provincial
capital cities. Priority for KIP is given to the poorest areas and those in
the worst condition, and 80% of the sites and services are designed for the
urban poverty group. City-wide investments in solid wastes collection and
drainage are also included in the project.



- 13 -
39.       Second, the project would secure major institutional change in the
housing finance sector by strengthening the management abilities of BTN,
providing it with technical assistance, and involving it in appraisal of the
sites and services component of the project.  These actions are designed to
make it an effective instrument for generating and distributing funds for
construction and mortgage finance for low-cost housing. The related
development institution, PERUMNAS, would also be strengthened through the
sites and services component. Moreover, financing for preparation of future
sites and services development by PERUMNAS is provided to set the stage for
future sector lending.
40.       Third, the project would assist in the initiation of a national
program for urban mapping. The maps to be produced would assist GOI's pre-
paration of plans and programs for urban development, management and finan-
cing. Two institutions with major responsibilities for mapping would be
strengthened: the National Surveying and Mapping Coordination Board
(BAKOSURTANAL), and the Directorate General of Agraria (DGA).
Project Components
41.       Kampung Improvement Program.  The project supports the provision
of basic infrastructure services including roads, footpaths, drainage, water
supply, sanitation facilities, solid waste collection, schools and health
centers at minimum standards in low-income unserviced kampung areas. A
total area of over 1,900 ha in six cities will be covered (Banjarmasin,
Pontianak, Samarinda, Denpasar, Palembang, Padang). The criteria and
standards for the preparation and execution of the KIP were agreed with GOI
(Part A and Annex 1 of Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement). The cost of
services to be provided is estimated at an average of about $43 per capita
(late-1980 prices). The upgrading would be carried out in situ, with only
minimum disturbance of existing dwellings; community facilities and
equipment would be provided, and community health workers trained, along the
lines of previous projects.
42.       Sites and Services.  The program of sites and services development
would consist of land acquisition and the construction of infrastructure,
community facilities and core houses on 190 ha. Land has been acquired in,
and projects designed for, Denpasar (54 ha), Samarinda (13 ha), and
Jogjakarta (37 ha). These 104 ha will be developed at average densities of
60 units per ha, for a total of about 6,000 plots. In three additional
cities (Semarang, Jambi and Padang), sites have been selected totalling 85
ha, and projects are to be designed to accommodate 5,500 plots, in
accordance with criteria and standards agreed with the Bank (Part B and
Annex 2 of Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement). The standards and
criteria for sites and services are sufficiently flexible to allow
variations in site physical condition, population characteristics, cultural
traditions, land prices, and availability of local materials. The typical
project would include approximately 50% of its plots designed for the income



- 14 -
group between the 15th and 39th percentile of the income distribution, 30%
of the plots for the group between the 40th and the 59th percentile, and 20%
for the group from the 60th to about the 80th percentile. Criteria and
procedures for the selection of beneficiaries for this component were agreed
(Section 3.07 and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). Plot sizes and
on-plot development vary with income groups. For the lowest income group,
plots vary from 60 sq m to 90 sq m and on-plot development includes sanitary
installations (i.e., pipes and connections for water and sanitary
facilities, but no structure), sanitary cores (pipes, connections, fittings,
sanitary facilities and enclosing walls) and temporary "starter" rooms of
disposable or reusable materials. For the middle-income groups, plot sizes
are 90 sq m and on-plot development of sanitary cores and "starter" rooms.
Upper income plots are from 120 sq m to 200 sq and have no on-plot
development. Allottees will build their own houses with technical
assistance and supervision provided by PERUMNAS and, where desired by the
allottees, loans to purchase building materials will be provided by
PERUMNAS.
43.       Denpasar City-Wide Improvements.  This component will include:
(a) improvements to and expansion of the solid waste management system;
and (b) extension of the water supply system from Densapar to Kuta/Jimbaran.
The solid waste system will be an expansion of the present, very limited
service to cover the whole of Denpasar. The system will comprise household
storage in bins, alternate day collection by handcart, transfer to central
collection bins, and finally, transfer by open, fixed trailer trucks and
disposal to a properly managed sanitary landfill. Landfill site development
will be provided under the project, as well as technical assistance to help
in the organization and management of the system. Water supply improvements
to the southern areas of the city are needed to overcome severe shortages
as well as to provide adequate supplies to proposed KIP and sites and
services projects in the same vicinity.
44.       Urban Mapping.  Since 1974 DGA has produced aerial photographs for
55 cities and maps for 30 of these cities (including Jakarta). Under the
project rectified photobases and topographic overlays would be produced for
an additional 25 cities and a further 100 cities would be flown and mapped.
These cities, which have high priority in GOI's urban development program,
include those in East Java and Sulawesi which the Bank has been asked to
review for future urban and water supply projects. Maps at 1:1000 scale with
1 meter contour intervals would be produced and made available to user
agencies, and to the private sector for suitable fees. A 1:250,000 scale
base data map of Java will also be produced.
45.       Studies, Consulting Services and Technical Assistance.  About 710
man-months of foreign and 540 man-months of local consultants services have
been provided to: (a) assist in the planning and implementation of KIP; (b)
assist municipalities in improving their tax collections; (c) develop and
initiate implementation of a training program in urban development programm-
ing for municipalities; (d) prepare feasibility studies and engineering



- 15 -
design of the first phase of the drainage systems for Banjarmasin and
Samarinda; (e) strengthen PERUMNAS- planning and management capabilities; (f)
assist in developing capacities in BTN as a housing bank; (g) assist DGA in
evaluating aerial photography mapping firms and in supervising the work; (h)
assist BAKOSURTANAL in planning and coordinating national mapping programs
and to test plot one urban area using computer techniques; and (i) assist in
preparing future urban projects. Timetables for the hiring of all
consultants have been agreed and consultants would be employed under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
46.     The total estimated cost of the project is $86 million, of which
$35 million (about 41%) would be in foreign exchange. The tax element in
the project is insignificant. Cost estimates include provision for physical
and price contingencies; base cost estimates are in November 1980 prices.
Price contingencies, assumed on the basis of recent trends, are 18% for
1981, 14% for 1982 and 10% thereafter for local components; and 9% in 1981,
8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% thereafter for foreign components. For expatriate
consultants, billing rates (including all overheads, travel and housing) of
$10,000/man-month have been used. Local consultant fees of $3,000/man-month
are based on the prevailing rates for such services in Indonesia.
47.        The proposed Bank loan of $43 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs of the project and $7.8 million (about 16%) of local
costs. Financing of local costs is considered justified as this high
priority project has a relatively low foreign exchange component. Part of
the Bank loan ($8.8 million) would be relent to the six Project Cities
involved with KIP under subsidiary loans with interest rates of not less than
1/4% higher than that of the Bank loan, and with repayment periods of 20
years, including five years of grace (Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Execution of a saitsfactory subsidiary loan agreement would be
a condition of disbursement for the KIP program in each project city (para-
graph 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). The cities would, in
addition, finance $3.7 million of project costs from their own resources.
GOI would provide a total of $9.1 million on a grant basis. The remaining
$6.7 million of the Bank loan funds for KIP would be passed on as grants to
Cipta Karya.
48.        Bank funds for use by PERUMNAS for sites and services development
($10.5 million or 25% of the loan, excluding funds allocated for technical
assistance) will be onlent on the same terms as to the cities (Section 3.02
(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). PERUMNAS, would be required to enter into
a subsidiary loan agreement with GOI as a condition of disbursement of Bank
funds (para. 4(c) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). For the
Denpasar citywide improvements, $2.2 million of the Bank loan will be passed
on as a grant; in addition, Cipta Karya will provide $1.3 million on a grant
basis. The remaining $14.8 million of the Bank loan (for urban mapping



- 16 -
studies, consulting services and technical assistance) would be passed on to
the Project Cities, DGA and BAKOSURTANAL as grants, and to PERUMNAS as
equity. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by GOI for all onlending.
49.        Procurement and Disbursement.  Contracts for goods and equipment
exceeding $50,000 each (and having a total value of approximately $2 million)
for dump trucks and pumping equipment for the Denpasar city-wide infra-
structure program, and surveying and mapping equipment for the urban mapping
program will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
A margin of preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower, will be applied to offers of domestically manufactured goods. It is
not anticipated that any civil works contract will exceed $1 million,
however, should such contracts occur, they will also be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
50.        Contracts for goods and equipment costing less than $50,000 will
be awarded on the basis of local procedures acceptable to the Bank, except
for the purchase of film, which will be procured through prudent
international shopping. As foreign contractors are unlikely to be
interested in bidding on civil works contracts because of the large number
of small contracts of short duration, the difficulty of working in densely
inhabited kampungs and sites in secondary sites, the need for close
relationships with residents and local officials, and the labor-intensive
nature of the works, the anticipated 250 to 300 civil works contracts,
valuing up to $1 million and estimated to total $64 million, will be let on
the basis of local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
51.        Disbursement of the proposed loan would be against: 50% of total
costs for civil works for KIP, the Denpasar/Kuta Water Supply and Solid
Waste programs; 50% of total cost of civil works for sites and services;
100% of expenditures for imported dump trucks and equipment; 65% of total
cost of trucks and equipment procured locally; 50% of expenditures for
services, materials and supplies for urban mapping; 50% of the building
material loans for sites and services; and 100% of total expenditures for
studies, consulting services and technical assistance. Separate accounts
for all project expenditures would be maintained and the municipal
governments and PERUMNAS would be required to maintain adequate accounts;
certified copies of audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.03 and 4.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
52.       With the exception of the water supply and drainage elements (to
be carried out by Cipta Karya), KIP will be implemented by the Project
Cities involved, under Cipta Karya's technical supervision. In accordance
with GOI's law on the principles of regional autonomy, the Directorate-
General of Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) will, as
appropriate, exercise supervisory functions to facilitate execution of the



- 17 -
project. The planning and implementation of KIP will be carried out in each
Project City involved by a special KIP Unit, whose manager will report to
the City Mayor. Since the works under KIP cut across the responsibility of
several municipal departments, the Unit will be guided by a Steering
Committee whose membership will include heads of the principal departments
concerned, as well as the district head of the area where the works are to
be carried out. In each Project City, the Unit will define kampung areas
for improvement, develop a budget and financial plan, hold consultations
with the community, prepare layout designs and contract documents, supervise
construction and, in close coordination with DGA and community leaders,
arrange for necessary land acquisition. Procedures to ensure adequate
planning of implementation activities, specifically arrangements for annual
work programs and financing arrangements, have been agreed (Section 3.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Staffing requirements for each City Unit have been agreed with the
municipal governments concerned, and assurances will be obtained that all KIP
Units and special units within the DGA will be fully staffed by July 31,
1981 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). To ensure that concerned
government officials and the project beneficiaries understand the principles
and policy features of KIP, Mayors of each City will issue Decrees outlining
the nature and extent of the program. These Decrees will be supplemented by
a general statement from the Director-General of PUOD setting out the
policies governing KIP in all cities, including those relating to minimum
disturbance of existing dwellings, compensation for land and property
acquisition, and granting of long-term leaseholds to families squatting on
public land. By July 31, 1981, PUOD will issue a directive acceptable in
form and substance to both the Borrower and the Bank, to each Project City
setting forth the policies governing KIP (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The training of community health workers and implementation of
the health services program, will be the responsibility of municipal health
department staff in each concerned Project City.
54.       The Denpasar city-wide improvements will be implemented as
follows: the Solid Waste Management component will be the responsibility of
the local authorities; and the Water Supply extension will be designed by
the local water supply company and constructed and operated under
supervision of Cipta Karya.
55.       The development of sites and services and low-cost housing in
Indonesia is the responsibility of PERUMNAS, as the development corporation,
and BTN as the mortgage finance bank. For the three projects which have
already been designed (Denpasar, Samarinda, Jogjakarta), PERUMNAS will be
responsible for construction, coordination with other agencies, and marketing.
With regard to the three cities where this component is still to be prepared,
PERUMNAS will be responsible for preparation, including analysis of demand,
feasibility studies, and planning and designing site works and housing
options, and subsequently oversee implementation. BTN will be involved in



- 18 -
the appraisal of these three cities: the first additional city would be
jointly appraised by BTN and the Bank in order to develop BTN's capacity and
understanding of the criteria agreed with the Bank (under Loan 1040-IND
technical assistance is presently being provided to BTN to develop these
capabilities). The remaining appraisals would be done by BTN and submitted
to the Bank for review. Where desired, building materials loans for housing
allottees will be provided by PERUMNAS.
56.       Urban mapping implementation will be the responsibility of the
Directorate Cadastral of DGA. To make the most efficient use of the limited
number of photo aircraft available and to avoid duplication of effort,
BAKOSURTANAL will coordinate and integrate the urban mapping work with the
overall government mapping projects. Consultant assistance to BAKUSURTANAL
for this purpose is provided in the project. The volume of aerial photog-
raphy and mapping work being undertaken under the project is substantial.
In order to ensure that firms have adequate capacity to undertake contracts,
DGA will employ consultants who will prepare reports on each firm wishing to
prequalify and where critical weaknesses exist, firms wanting to prequalify
will have to strengthen their capacity, including, if necessary, association
with other firms, foreign or local (Section 3.15 of the draft Loan
Agreement). DGA will also strengthen its own staff to agreed levels to
implement this project component. (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
57.       There have been no direct levies, such as a betterment tax or plot
charge, imposed on kampung residents as a result of KIP works, since the
types of urban services provided under KIP are similar to those routinely
provided to the higher-income neighborhoods without levying any charges and
the Government has taken the view that to institute a special tax on KIP
beneficiaries would be inequitable. M4oreover, imposition of direct levies
(e.g. plot charges) on beneficiaries would require a massive effort in
cadastral surveys and in clarification and registration of tenure for each
of the large number of families benefitting annually from the program; such
an effort is beyond the present administrative capacity of the local
governments and GOI. Collection would have to be spread over time and, in
many instances, the cost of collection may exceed the revenues generated.
58.       At the same time, a major argument in favor of direct levies on
beneficiaries rests on the desire to ensure that the program can be
sustained over the long-term so that the services can be provided to all
kampung areas. GOI has addressed this issue by: (a) an explicit focus on
the standards employed, with the aim of keeping these at a minimum level
consistent with achieving the health objectives of the project; and (b)
ensuring that municipal taxes increase at a rate sufficient to pay for an
expanding program.  Consistent with this, it has been agreed that the cities
will take appropriate measures to achieve a general increase of 15% per
annum in real terms in city-wide property tax (IPEDA) collections for the
next five years (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
59.       For solid waste collection at present, the local authorities do
not levy a direct charge. However, under the proposed project, the
technical assistance to be included provides for a study to be done to
determine a feasible and appropriate level of and system for cost recovery.
The study will be completed by April 1, 1983 and its findings will be
discussed with the Bank (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). Water
supply costs will be partially recovered through the rate structure, as is
now done in Bank-assisted existing water supply projects. For sites and
services, all costs attributable to plots and housing development are to be
recovered from beneficiaries in the sales prices of units at interest rates
which vary with income levels (see para. 64 below). Residential sites for
high income groups and sites for commercial establishments are to be sold at
market prices to provide cross subsidies to the plots and housing
developments for lower income groups.
Affordability, Replicability and Poverty Impact
60.       Even though the project would not impose any direct charges on the
beneficiaries, appropriate design standards have been employed to ensure
that costs are compatible with the income levels of the beneficiaries.
In fact, the results of previous Bank-supported KIP in Jakarta demonstrates
that the approach being followed by the Government can sustain the program
at a desirable scale of operations. On completion of the Third Urban
Development Project, virtually all of the unserviced areas of Jakarta,
accommodating a population of nearly 4.0 million, will have been covered by
the program in less than 12 years. Projections of the programs in the
Project Cities indicate that similar results may be expected in these
cities.  The proposed project aims to cover in five years up to 50% of the
areas of these cities needing improvement. Estimates of the growth of
municipal resources indicate that the cities would be able to continue the
program out of their own resources.
61.       The sites and services projects have been designed with standards
at sufficiently low levels to be affordable to the income groups between the
15th and 80th percentile of the income distribution, while fully recovering
all costs attributable to the plots. Less than 25% of monthly incomes at
any income level would be required to meet housing costs. The Government
has programmed support for the development of 150,000 units during Repelita
III (120,000 PERUMNAS built, 30,000 privately developed).
Institutional Development
62.       The functioning of municipalities in Indonesia is limited by weak
finances and administration. Their finances are heavily dependent on GOI
(up to 50% of total expenditures), and without responsibility for major
programs they have not built up significant technical staffs. The proposed
project would enhance the municipalities- ability to obtain and efficiently
utilize resources by providing consulting services to improve municipal tax
collections and develop a training program in urban development programming.
KIP is the largest public investment program in each of the cities, and each
municipality would develop a significant technical staff by establishing a
KIP Unit to implement the program.



- 20 -
63.       PERUMNAS and BTN have key roles in the housing sector; however,
each has institutional weaknesses. Since it began operations in 1974,
PERUMNAS has developed its construction activities without adequate attention
to coordination with other agencies providing essential services such as
water supply and land titles, and to marketing and estate management. This
resulted in a significant proportion (16%) of units having been built before
water was available or applicants processed for occupancy. To correct this
problem, PERUMNAS has prepared a program, which has been agreed with the
Bank, for reducing the number of vacancies (Section 3.08 (a) and Schedule 6
of the draft Loan Agreement). To avoid similar problems in the future, new
operating procedures have been developed which would ensure coordination
with other agencies and timely selection of applicants. It has been agreed
that implementation of these new operating procedures would begin on July
31, 1981 (Section 3.08 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, an
assurance has been obtained that after July 31, 1981, all units will be sold
immediately upon construction (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Finally, agreement has been reached on performance criteria for PERUMNAS
involving operating expenses and average unit prices (Section 4.08 and
and Schedule 8 of the draft Loan Agreement). As noted above, the proposed
project would support PERUMNAS' development by providing consulting services
to assist in the implementation of the new operational plan and training its
staff in the new procedures.
64.       BTN has had a very slow start in developing its capabilities to be
an effective mortgage bank, primarily because of delays in establishing a
clear GOI policy for housing finance and difficulties in expanding its
organization and improving its management at the pace needed. As of
December 1978, less than 10% of total commitments of 21,427 units (for
Rp 47.8 billion) had been executed. In 1979, however, performance improved
significantly, and BTN processed three and a half times more loans in that
year than in all previous years combined. To strengthen BTN's finances an
assurance has been obtained that GOI will implement its new interest rates
for mortgages of PERUMNAS built units by July 31, 1981 (Section 3.10(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). As opposed to its former rate of 5% across the
board, the new rates are related to the income group for whom the units are
intended and are structured as follows: 5% for the income group up to the
39th percentile of the income distribution; 7% for the group from the 40th
to the 59th percentile; and 9% for the group from the 60th percentile
upwards. This new regime is projected to increase BTN's average return from
6% to 7.6%. Furthermore, BTN would adjust interest rates by July 31, 1982
to levels sufficient to cover BTN-s operating cost plus the weighted average
of the costs of its funding (Section 3.10(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Finally, BTN would conduct a study of its longer-term needs and by December
31, 1981, review any financial recommendation with the Bank (Section 3.10(d)
and Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Justification and Benefits
65.        There are two types of benefits expected from the project: (a)
direct service benefits to project beneficiaries which would have a
substantial impact on public health conditions; and (b) institution-building



- 21 -
effects of project implementation. In the Project Cities the KIP will
provide essential basic services, including water, sanitation, drainage,
roads, footpaths, schools and health facilities, to an estimated 500,000
persons living in low-income kampungs at an average cost of $43/capita.
The sites and services would provide serviced residential units to
low-income households who would otherwise be unable to afford comparable
accommodations. The estimated 11,500 plots would benefit over 80,000
persons between the 15th and 80th percentile of the income distribution.
The solid waste management program would provide an acceptable level of
service to some 175,000 residents of Denpasar who at present have, at best,
a partial service. The extension of water supply to Kuta will provide
immediate, new services to approximately 50,000 persons and accommodate
projected growth in its service area through the 1980s. These supplies will
reduce the risks of epidemic from polluted water, thereby improving public
health and protecting the valuable tourist economy. In addition, the
project would create an estimated 40,000 man-years of employment (largely
for unskilled labor) in the civil works construction programs. On the
institution-building side, the project will help to improve PERUMNAS and BTN
(the two major housing sector institutions); the KIP unit in Cipta Karya and
the solid waste management capability in Denpasar will be strengthened; and
the Project Cities capacity to plan, program and manage urban development
will be enhanced. Further, the expansion of systematic mapping of urban
areas will allow priority investment programs to be planned and executed
more quickly, city planning to be more effective, and property and tax
registration to be brought up to date.
66.       Quantitative evaluation of the benefits of KIP was based on the
estimated increase in property (and rental) values brought about by the
provision of infrastructure and services. Although certain project benefits
may only indirectly and imperfectly be reflected in the market value of
property in the project area, property values provide a useful indicator of
the minimum value of project outputs. Within this framework, the economic
rate of return for the proposed KIP investments is 21%. It is possible that
since KIP provides for a major expansion of serviced areas in each of the
cities, the increase in property values may be less than the present value
differential between serviced and unserviced areas. However, sensitivity
analysis indicates that a reduction in benefits of 20% would still yield a
rate of return of 16%. The benefits from sites and services development are
estimated on the basis of the projected rental values from the development,
which is estimated on the basis of current market value of similar, existing
developments in a few Project Cities. The economic rate of return for this
component is estimated to be 15%. A reduction of benefits by 20% yields
returns of 11%, and an increase in costs of 20% results in a return of 12%.
The estimated weighted average rate of return for the KIP and sites and
services components, which account for 74% of project costs, is 18%.
Project Risks
67.       Two major risks in the project are the inexperience of local
governments with KIP, and the possibility that BTN may be slow in instituting



- 22 -
necessary organizational improvements. A great deal will depend on the
ability of the local governments to mobilize competent teams to execute KIP;
however, experience under the Second and Third Urban Projects indicates that
the cities have been able to rapidly build up their implementation capacity,
and the project provides for technical assistance to strengthen the KIP
Units. Close supervision by Cipta Karya and Dalam Negeri should help ensure
timely and competent execution of that component. Inability by BTN to
adequately appraise the sites and services components in the additional
cites would not jeopardize the execution of these components since alter-
native courses of action for this eventuality have been defined (while the
technical assistance being provided should strengthen BTN-s capacity in time
for it to fulfill its functions, should there be delays the Bank would
perform the appraisal function with the assistance of BTN). A further risk
relates to the quality of aerial photography and mapping, which has not
always been adequate in earlier projects in other sectors. However, recent
efforts by BAKOSURTANAL to enforce quality control and group local firms
into more capable consortia has led to considerable improvements. Further
measures to be instituted through the project include a thorough evaluation
of firms, requirements for them to take specific measures to improve their
capabilities, and strict quality control. These measures should be adequate
to ensure quality and timely production of maps.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 31, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                    Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AYERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2027.1                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     292.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  80.0       130.0    380.0                  212.4                1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     129.0       120.0    278.0                 166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     94.7       117.6    136.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6        17.1      19.5                  20.8                  39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     204.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       350.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       47.0        58.0      67.0                 193.2                 376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0       419.0    465.0                 409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.8        44.0      41.0                 42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.1        53.5      56.0                 55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1         2.5       3.0                   3.0                   3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.2       1.8                   2.2                   2.4
URBAN                              3.8         3.8       3.5                  3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTR RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0         43.0      37.0                  37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATE RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0        18.0      17.0                  14.6                   7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         3.2       2.4                   2.6                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       181.1   2246.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          0.2      19.0*                 15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          93.0       102.0     107.0                 101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   89.0        92.0     105.0                  92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          41.0        41.0      47.0                  49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        6.0         6.0       6.0                  12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     31.0        22.0      20.0                  17.9                   5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   41.0         46.0      47.0                  50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       126.0        ..                   ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0      12.0                  30.2                  42.4
URBAN                               ..        10.0      35.0                  66.0                  62.1
RURAL                               ..         1.0       6.0                 20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0      15.0                  17.7                  52.8
URBAN                               ..        50.0      60.0                 71.3                   71.1
RURAL                               ..         4.0       5.0                    ..                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         41000.0/c  26830.0  14580.0                  6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      8010.0    2818.0                9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0      1530.0   1578.0                 1758.4                 819.4
URRAN                               ..      1090.0
RURAL                               ..      1670.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      22.4                   ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8
URBAN                              4.9         5.3
RURAL                              4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.5
URBAN                               ..         1.6
RURAL                               ..         1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
* Estimate for 1979 is 27%.



- 24-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LDW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 71.0         78.0      86.0                8D.9                   98.6
MALE                  86.0        83.0       91.0                94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                58.0        73.0       81.0                66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0         16.0      21.0                26.6                   55.5
MALE                  10.0        21.0       25.0                34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                 3.0        11.0       17.0                18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (T OF SECONDARY)  20.0          22.0      21.0                  9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         29.0      30.0                41.1                   34.6
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0      18.3                20.5                   28.5
ADLLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         39.0        57.0       62.0                40.9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          2.0       3.6                  1.8                    9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         21.0      37.0                25.8                  118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER TIIOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1          0.8       2.3                 2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..      16.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       0.9                  ..                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34752.5       41547.3   48610.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.9         31.0      29.0                29.4                   36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.8         66.3      60.1                70.5                    51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4          9.7      11.0                11.6                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.7         35.3       34.6               37.9                    39.1
MALE                                  54.2        49.5       48.6                51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                               20.0         21.6       20.8                23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.3        1.2                 1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        33.7/d
NIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.07        -
IDWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         6.87        -
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         17.37        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                *-           *-     150.0/e             107.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..     107.07.              86.5                  192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     145.O/e
RURAL                                 ..          ..      98.07e                ..                   182.s5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      59.0                46.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      65.0                51.7                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962;  /d Income recipients;  /e 1980.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
trEoINIcOSt OF SOCIAL IN;,ICAocbcc
Notes:  Although th   oear   ra   ro   ore  ge.r...               ude  the most  -nhroasad  eliehie, it should alt- be noted that they ma.y net he iletr-
seelsoly cmpaabl  beaus  of theIlak of   osud          Ie def'initon   and r-stpt: used.by differt-  coutries tocoletgthe data.  The dots err, tre-
tDelc     sflt   ecieodsso    antd,Sdrer reoesdcsut:lecesl   ejcdfeocshceo.uoio
Ohs referees.groups see (1  the same occry group of the  -Idotcunr  sod  I)     ose  gee- aiflltOnosbsohgee          tesrlos.tustecnorlto
sert-ouloraaffnitis). It she refereer  greop data the.... ve .gs. are pslssit   weght:ed sr-ttaoetlo  men  fordl oath  indco  andl sheer.  Ifl them at
least half t   s he tostee   IIarop  hs tos  for thaet IsaOrator   sincethcoeaer  rrit  amg rho ediaondp_rdr on tie   cilsti o
data sod is   t uniform, caution muss he rnrois-d ftrh.igoergeo  onetetot                                  j_t aethr  dei-ergs  e  olyoe-       u dotopalblshe valu
of useftoftoatgrpso ahoeme-smote teIolyo-ry sad referenostgroups
LANDI AREA (thoussd ao.ke.7                                                                    pualor    hsce  -rpiss    iie   ynu to   reiigpy
Aotal- tlsr aIl     te  racmrsi.  ad  rasdiln    ses                                          uliai.a qualifird from a  edical schoolat _oivat ..y leel
sgecslusa  -  nslateof  griuigos  area nso.d teprrl  o   amoely                   Pploe   ete  NorsIo  Psrso             Ppltion dinie   rsme   ipatcs
fo-cop, taors,mahe  sod birches. gardr.a o  c  lie falIos; 19'77 dt.              mal  ad femae gradua'te nuses ..protclmme,sd  airm   u
CP5PE  CarAEI (coilS  - GNP Par -aits  at eae-scurn aket pr,csa, te-1                      Pelto-e   eptitd-lti  uha   a   oa       oss  w   ttl
trPste,  e  rrl)dniedy  ictrspciv                                                                                                                  me   f hsita  heIds
toaI    b   tae  oneioc m-rhod uo Woe1d task Atlas  (1971-7h helis); 1960,                     -vilable es public sod primate gaersi. esd spriaie   hepiss  asd  m
lilt, sod  1979 dora.                                                ~~~~~hsbilitatiemcnsra.Repitele ste estsblishaesta pema,oly stoffed
ENtRil CONSlOIPTIOKl Pit CAPITA - Annual  -oespti-r ofcmoca   nry(ol                             aeaeetlcsr.Rua   oprl,hass  icuehat   a                                        ia
sd ,     tst    ptrlea    1a960gsso,ydo,ru a  a1d9eotermld 19e7 -                              -teser  sot Permanetly staffed by a ph,siotis (bar by a  edical ...sJet-mt
srictp)in  ilogamsof  eal  qoialeo pe  caisa  lii   170,asd  079sore, mdwife, etc.) ohith 0ff- is-pattest ate.. dtis  sod provide a 
dams,                                                          lImited range of medioul ~~~~~~~~~~facJlitlma.  Per  ttsissica1 p.,ses  atelhambapi-
PPUIPATION ADli PITAL, STATISTICS                                                                                          p1glI-              .il-   .   t.                  ..
h,optrasI .s.s  or - r att   hapitla sad sedicel sad matesity .teae..
fTal Popalstirs, Hid-Pear (mlic           - do of July 1; 19it, 1910, and 1978              ldaseun  car liosital led-PeanatroadassaoorIchgs
data.-RtlIft..t  ttgram,.t.;                                                                 t   htepirala divided by the number rf beds.
leham Pupa1otiom (p et of total-)                                                                                          - aioo  uT. otoa  ppleif
difeeetdefsiios  f ashes -rea my of    compashility of data                       tltR
PPorlati-e ia, year 2it - C-rret popolatios projeeie    rehados10                           ad t..heir'j' sol   me.Ahadro   egrmys   a                       eioludd -is
t _tu  population by  gfe asd  -e  aad term aisysdfriiyrts                             the h       _ias -o    . frtAtiatical psepesyes.."                 l~igt     I
meters fer- fertilty rateas  Rav   shr tslevel  asumn  dartling  ist                      samatupi-_yed rarte.                                                         J
fetlityft- dngt  iom   leve  uId pit fail  peois  peifemoc                           Ates  to ltrrr  (rerosos of dwellissa  -  otl-sba,sd 
sdfriliytensfo              -jeta  tu-pIse..                                           of total d l,l oba, t ardrt rely  Dwel lnsrsec,ey
Itatia..ary Possien-oossole1y ppultin tereis  n  rowh ssc
s hieshrte  aeqa   to ho deob rats, sad alao the age structure m-                EDUtCATIOM
mainsnseo.T ia_shcies.sd saly eftee fertility  -eoea ds-iloe t.                         dutdfroietRso
tIa r-plt"mt lee   f amit act rerr-d-ctio  rtet, them             t  g.....sseaior,       Primaysho      et,ml  a   oa -Cosstl   atsdfml
of moma ry lae  itself  amtl.   hftoisryppltisnsIecwsta .                                    -orelmoot of1 all     . aeat the primary levl a  pesootagas of reePetm
estimted  o thebaad  of. the f p   teojerted  t f-cteletir  of  the pnplstioa          primay thY      -g  pepulati...s;""crilY is de           hbildre  aged h-li
isth   yer20,sdtert   fdniso   etlt   uet e c-years hut adjusted for difi treat 1aegtb  of p~ri-ye adons.tim;, foe
set -evl                                                                              essi-Iathriceb.    with e  I1.-  semraladetiot soletmy  asdh    sns
veer aht..    rmelto   sraoa                b   srws   osisr   orler                          iceam   aisaeblwo  shove the erfmia  sabad age.--
total"-Md-"    --1tl  Ptqt area.tsooll  of 12 to 17 Yaars of ag;....p.dsotsce   ems .g ..,paly
P W-1iY,                                                                                   taca..tt-(-et-CI  (-4y .,-ti-g  ..tiul e..mIl-esat (pemost ef eatosdsry)  V- tttiosa  iteetitoti...
Porsaeio  Ag  iltocose (asnet)     ObIde(Ilyas)woli-s(5                               i-elde  eh        l  todsttrial, or other programs whioh aper-a  is  pse-
64 pears),(), sd r-iieed (65 yessa  ove) Bea p-retages at mid-y-e  P'P                        detlyora  depsetost  of e-saar  istituti"m..
latien; liii. 1970, sod 1979 date.psl-t-ahe  rasie -                                            =rmr. sad adooadt  - T t1 stodents c,oroiled is
Poeslation Greh Mat  'rPtes). -totl.    A-..aI groth rtea. of total mid-                        peisar  sod aecodamy i1-ei  dividad hy nmb-re of temaher  ta the
yesr~ p.,Oplatso  for! 195t-60, 1960-70, sad 1970-79.orsandglel.
Psesatio lses  Rae (ercos)- uban -..asI grwhrtse   ra   a                            otlteo   is  (reres) - Litertet adu1ee (able to read an-d weie)
lanfons. for 190-6~1,t09.60-70, sd970-79.                                                      ase ,perosatege If total adlt popoletias Aged ii ysars sod rear
(mde feebh  fatetea   th   "adl - A_Jaa live hirtbs Per thousad of mid-year
ppol:tlea; t196O,  197Ot, sa  1979 data.                                              C eUMePTIO
Crude  ath  ae(a  thesmed) - Asraml deaths per theosmad of mid-year                         Psassge  Cars tpr  h-ssd   -essir       assgeae   opeise mato
pop tiela; 1960, 0971, sad 1970dat,                                                      ears  matiC  ba   hnegtpscs   clpe   auaea   ere   o
Gea. tee...     ia  Ma"teAm'ag "       sabe  of daughteca a  oalill beam in                   tillisery vrhncle..
bee.   Is reproductive peeled if shep ..e..eesprset 's_a-paifr fee-..                     Radio R.e.cirs.s (rem ohooend esoanr)-altye   freevc lec
tility  ae;amlYfieyaovrgaadieg is 1960, 19170, esd 1977.                                    bradaees-gsra-pbirpr  h                      -ea  ofl tpopulation; wole It-i-
F-milo  lama  -       -Aoste. BdArooI (tesmda          A ...sa oBmb- of ....epto-s            eeosd r--iv-re in cootries sad in year -w hes rsgistr-tie            f mdis  e
ofhehcarlda-e   me   upcso ..i.alfaily ploin  progrss                             sa. In  1ffnot; dat  for re...t..s.r. ma  set heb opaaleaie  mast
fail  Pasta   -isrsipr=a  of  areedf womn)i  P.co-tage of caried                        cotiaaoihditsig
com   o  thl-becg ag   1-4h year) wAn use hiib-ceiro1 devices to                          TV R.eceivers (pe  thossaod rorulatios) - TVtrenoivera for bradt.st to
all married mones is aame 00  f555P.                                gescea _1 blio per thneaosd papolatfee; em.ludsa saliososd TVreeme
POOD Alit NlElITION                                                                             in  -ostia-  ed Is yaint whe.teegiatretiea of TVS seta wa  is effees.
Id_________-d-ti_______________                                        esae-easa::Ciclaie   peth-usd ppato)-Shos  hPasmg  olema-ls-
adma offee   rdei   e    aIta ilghRl-7l0iR) - ad- amIf Ptt ..pt.lp non                                 "daiy genea -       eetnwpae"dioe    sapridel
Irrdor- II t all.1  food  -7amd itia.  Production estladca  sesd sad fesad and              licaties demoted primaiys   steiggesa   e.It is aemidesed
is  o  -ed-r year belis.  Coaiiaevcpimr   ode (e.g. asasm                                 rbe "daily" if in eppe    as Yleas't foa  Oimeawek
imatod of sugar) which are edible ood confai  sutriests  (e.g.  toffee and                CisadouAreoneareitrt  e-M adothsmeef
ati-sI  -vergs prod--e  prioe weights; 1961-h5. 1970, esd I1RPM doss.                       aid  trhilnId  . u itst.    y., .li            el...t  d           i     
Pet .,pit. earely of naeis   peecat of remsir-aae) - Computed fromt.
o..aargpqsimaless of nslf fod spplise avilable Is  -stry Pee  -pits                  tABRe  FRtti
pet ds.   Available   P suple  coprise domeasic p-od-tis..  imports losI..lbr.ec   teasd)-tortelystm    esss   ald
saoe  as   hse   nsoc.Nraple  ooeeaia    sd   sd,                                      amd f--e  rd unemployed hut  -oludiog h-sewivee, e.tud Boaec
q-rtie  usd toI oo   roess. sad loasem  In dtarribsti-m  Reotf-ietLtti... is                                      . varousco ttriesar tot _ _npsble; 160, 19711 esid
metswt  teimatad hy PAO bh..ed.o  phyiflogia1lsede f-   --rm1 ansi-                 1970 dsea.
vinyes  health Io...ideroog sevirarretal tsapertsc-, body w-lhta;. as                  Pal   rret      oml   ao   oc   speesesa   oa   arrfe
sad sex di:tributios of popu1etios, sad al1owiog 10 pa n   oewset                        Aeiatrepren)- Labor fort-h iseigloety   etm    a
boseod  evl    Z91,17,  n   97dt.                                                       fisbiug as pe,r-otae of total labor, fore;19           170ad97dt.
oa  epply of fond pee day.  Net sapply of food"it elodm  above   Ma-a"   eleatrily.                         aesa-ats   ecsaeo   oallbrttm    9
quiroet  for all .ruteiB established by USDA provide for minimum                          1970 -md 17 aa
al11= tnce  f 60 gr-m  of total protein pe  day sad 2t gra_  of _mml sad                retcrti9          e(rret  Stroel. mae,adfe le-Prcitsao
puls  prtim, of which 10 gas-  ahold be eoimsI proteim.  These stand-                     aotimity rorstor  coputed se total, solo, ad feml  ao-ers
ards et  lwe  chns these of 75 gr-m  of t-o1 protalo aod 13 gramo of                                                1.df 1pp.ti    I-ptY.
sa.m.. 'protet asamevege for the wold .propote.d by PAP is the Third                      pe960tmes1f9 ttal  male sad75emtl  p p-ala              i.tosofal aeateepe - -timey
WenId fod h.S-y; 1961-65, 197t sad 1977 dta.                                                6,hd   u   91dt.   Thes  seeOtspriptsetamfcts
Per naieeoensrl   rmaia  odple-Poenapl ffn   e                                              age-ae  ta.r.ctser of she popolatiot, aed long tine tred.  A few, esti-
tire   ira aimas sd plee  in, frae  eray  1061-hI  1970 an  1977 data.- tooi   esdsyMte-Osso   ooaisudr1                                              5sdra
Child (ages "1%i) Mrtlity  ar  (rt'huad) - Amosa1 deatha per. tbess a                         t  h  ttllbrfre
.g. group 1-4 yr-r   to ehildren in this age grop; f- orms deve.loping   u-
telee data derived from life tables; 12960. 1970 sod 1977 data. INCiOME DISTRIBTlION
BRALTH                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-s.c.otear of Private Income (both in c..h asd kind) - Rae-oed Iry richest
Llf  AneoctancSy at Biehpar)-Arsg  number of Yesre of life clemoling                           0sre-nt. riches  21Or_et, p-cree  20 percen, mcd Penres  40 Percomt
as  irt; lot,1)7  ad 1970 dai..
tnoa    oeaity R Oe pe    "!o..and) - A-..Il deaths of letfmate  ae.     r -d. Year ci OVRTTARGit GOUPiS
of.. age per. wthouau  live- bIrts                                                          .ieiltod Absolute Pverty Ounce. Level (Us$, p           pit.) -trbso  sod t-.1i
Ncess-      aeb   tr(aoeso   ousia      ool  es,adcrl-~                                      AbsouteoverY Income 1-r1 to that Iroom   Levelhit                    
Nube  of people (total,~ ara,sdrrl    ihrasal   ceet   a                                   oroullyaout   itps    not                       a-food r-quiraenia is ret
woersupy  inlue   reted arswaasostesdhoteotmnad                                     eff-rdablo.
wae   ih a   hcfo      etertd borebolas, apriags   a sItaY wells) ee                tOoistadlvacoPosy Ieo.elve    Iipecot    -ubam sad totl-
perontagee of thsirre-petire populotiesm                .  .   b. -oo srspbli               Rura  rlirpoetitmeevlswe-hdof....a ape  npita
fn...tatr or mtadpc-  locatd sot  -arstha  2OR  _mte-a OC-o a boat. sa  he                  R.t   eie            tt   I
ocaaideeed ashing within, reso-ble ac-se  of rAnt house.  In, rura  areas                   Prso..I Incom   of oh.ecoty   irbun 1tsl is deri-odfome rts
tht                                         1-1~~~~~~~~~lee  with odj-a-et for higher ..ost of liviegoioobanrss
resoiil  acsswol  ipl  ba   he h-seila em members of the hosarbold                  itmsdPcltn   no    hraePvryIta   ee   pret      co
dosttost   pndadereetouo    atoftedy  sfthigorasrrl-  rcn  o   ooatIh yhL                                                        a   url   h  ae"bolt   es
famil7'P seaterf needs.
disposa. a  p -tnensges  f thrir re-pcti-e popcletiooa.   oE-.ta die-                                                      fonoicsd facial lets lliviaio
pslmyisolode the  -ol1atti- sod diep.e.. wihoraih.a   mamo,Eosi Analysis asd Proisotissa Deperttot
_tet. ..d  .. t.-   -t.t-b.l.   th.t t.,:,.tf ~    ~         ~         ~        ~       ~        Oreher199
of he      moes   n    etewtrb  eserhos  syatea  or the-ass8of
Pit princes and similar Iotleto



- 26 -                                ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979 /a                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    %          1960-65    1965-70    1970-75    1975-79
GNP at Market Prices           46,939  100.0          1.9          4.9         7.4         6.5
Gross Domestic Investment    11,069   23.6            3.3         11.5        18.3        10.5
Gross National Saving          12,362   26.3          5.8          5.1        20.3        20.3
Current Account Balance         1,293    2.8
Exports of Goods, NFS          14,742   31.4          1.5          7.8         9.2        11.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          11,331   24.1          0.2         10.9        22.1       14.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %         Mln      X            USa      %
Agriculture                    11,624   31.1      35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                       12,672   33.9       4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                       13,043   35.0      13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                         -    -         3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37,339  100.0      56.4   100.0           662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(R  Billio-n)                            % of GDP
1978/;_9  _1979/80                        1978    1979
Current Receipts                 4,266      6,697                        19.4    21.8
Current Expenditure              2,530      3,920                        11.5    12.8
Current Surplus                  1,736      2,777                         7.9      9.1
Capital Expenditures             2,473      3,889                        11.3    12.7
External Assistance (net)          739      1,114                         3.4      3.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1975     1976      1977      1978     1979    1980 (June)
(Million Rp outstanding end period) o
Money and Quasi Money                 1,978    2,631    3,131    3,809    5,216          6,480
Bank Credit to Public Sector            990    1,051       883    1,442    1,065           -72
Bank Credit to Private Sector        1,376    1,737    2,017    2,605    3,160           3,607
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.6        17.0      16.7      17.5     17.0
General Price Index (1973 = 100)        166      190       214       232       309
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    12.9     14.5      12.6       8.4     33.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector         373.7       6.2    -16.0       63.3    -26.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector          16.0     26.2      16.1      29.2     21.3
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 5 US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 13, 1981



- 27 -                                         ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                 Estimate            Projected
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980       1981     1982      1985
Balance of Payments /a
1.  Exports                                     9,213   10,861   11,353   17,488   22,656    26,349   32,159   46,443
(a)  Oil and LNG (gross)                    6,350    7,354    7,374   11,323   16,903    19,806   23,668   32,039
(b)  Nonoil                                 2,863    3,507    3,979    6,165    5,753         6,543    8,491   14,404
2.  Imports                                    -9,297  -10,686  -11,493  -14,233  -18,236   -22,657  -28,203  -44,106
(a)  Oil sector                            -2,640   -2,909   -3,364   -4,439   -5,884    -7,712   -9,495  -11,554
(b)  Nonoil                                -6,167   -7,241   -7,543   -9,230  -11,503   -14,143  -17,534  -30,663
(c)  NFS (net)                               -490      -536     -586      -659      -849    -1,002   -1,174   -1,889
3.  Resource balance                               -84      175      -140    3,225    4,420       3,692    3,956    2,337
4.  Factor services                              -718      -865   -1,015   -1,261        -957      -679      -370       542
(a)  Interest on public debt                 -318      -441     -485      -772      -807       -942   -1,069   -1,398
(b)  Other (net)                             -400      -424     -530      -489      -150        263       699    1,940
5.  Capital grants                                 100      100       100       100       100        100       50        50
6.  Balance on current account                   -702      -590   -1,055    2,094    3,563        3,113    3,636    2,929
7.  Direct foreign investment                     287       285       271       217       170        170      200       300
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursements                          2,332    1,956    1,637    1,940    2,864         2,881    3,053    2,995
(b)  Amortization                            -437      -825      -978   -1,335      -987    -1,043   -1,193   -1,885
(c)  Net disbursements                      1,895    1,131        660      604    1,877       1,838    1,860    1,110
9.  Other capital (net)                          -479      -175       832   -1,221   -3,000    -2,600   -1,863   -1,048
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)            -1,001      -651      -708   -1,690   -2,610    -2,521   -3,783   -3,291
11.  Net official reserves                        1,557    2,208    2,916    4,606    7,216        9,737   13,520   23,901
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                       2.8       3.4       4.3      5.6       7.0        7.7       8.7       8.8
Public Loan Commitments                                                                                          Average
IBRD                                             564       406       432       726                             1977-79
IDA                                                -         -       119        89  Merchandise Exports   Amount    %
Other multilateral                                109      136       199       235
Government                                       953       648       775    1,152  Oil and LNG (gross)    8,684   65.2
Others /b                                      1,194       436       962    1,313  Timber                    1,347   10.2
Total                                          3,134    1,727    2,704    3,825  Rubber                        802    6.1
Coffee                     616    4.7
Public Debt and Debt Service                                                          Palm oil                   227    1.7
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (end                                           Tin                        322    2.4
of period)                                  10,018   11,671   13,125   13,317  Manufactures                  534    4.0
Including undisbursed                         14,551   16,153   18,952   20,832  Other                         702    5.3
Amortization                                     437       825       978    1,335
Interest                                         318       441       485       772       Total              13,234  100.0
Total debt service                                755    1,266    1,463    2,107
Outstanding
Debt Burden                                                                                                   Dec. 31, 1979
Public debt service/exports (%)                  8.2      11.7      12.9      12.0  External Debt           Amount    %
Public debt service/GDP (%)                      2.0       2.8       3.0       4.3
Public debt service/Government revenues                                             Disbursed only:
(x)                                           10.9      14.8      17.0     16.3    IBRD                      739    5.5
IDA                     525    3.9
Average Terms on Public Debt                                                            Other multilateral       176    1.3
Interest/DOD at beginning of period (Z)          4.0       4.4       4.2       5.9    Governments            7,071   53.1
Debt service/DOD at beginning of period                                               Suppliers              1,487   11.2
(%)                                            9.4      12.6      12.5     16.1    Financial instit.    2,927   22.0
Bonds                    164    1.2
Rate of Exchange                                                                        Other                    227    1.7
August 1971 Through November 14, 1978                                                 Total                 13,317  100.0
US$1.00  = Rp 415                                                                 Incl. undisbursed       20,832  156.4
Rp 1,000 = US$2.41
Since November 15, 1978
US$1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1,000 = US$1.60
/a Balance of payments figures are on an April to March fiscal year basis.
/b This includes suppliers- credits, financial institutions and bonds.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 23, 1981



ANNEX II
-28-                       Page 1 of 26 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and twenty-seven Credits fully disbursed  357.00  432.43            -
259     1971   Tea                                                15.00        0.35
300     1972   Population                                         13.20        1.44
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                        11.00        0.61
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development               5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50        3.61
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.80        4.65
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50        8.98
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00        1.20
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        5.64
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50        0.76
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00       14.36
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00       11.32
827     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00       24.49
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00       47.34
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00        9.48
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00       62.67
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00       11.58
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00       44.38
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00       45.00
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00       42.00
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00       30.00
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                2.15
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00                28.33
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50                 9.47
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                 6.53
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00                53.82
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.00                15.03
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.00                22.68
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion (PUSRI IV)  70.00                    1.43
1259     1976   Fifth Power                               90.00                10.45
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                 6.53
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.00                12.36



ANNEX II
-29 -                        Page 2 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                 12.10
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50              9.99
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00             13.99
1363    1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00              2.80
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00             42.43
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00             10.58
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00             15.32
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00             46.61
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00             18.83
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                  3.93
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50             16.15
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00              9.15
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00             44.31
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00             75.48
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00            127.76
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00             25.36
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                 62.82
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00             65.74
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00             48.25
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00             47.60
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00             40.11
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00            122.00
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00             40.09
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00            155.63
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00             34.95
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S-holders III          99.00             92.24
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.00            116.00
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV           42.00             41.18
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                  35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                   35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                       253.00            245.18
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project              46.00             46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project             45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project /a                    250.00            250.00
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                      Page 3 of 26 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,147.00  931.80
less cancellations                          - -15.49   -1.47
Total                                         3,131.51  930.33
of which has been repaid                      -62.96   -1.72
Total now outstanding                         3,068.55  928.61
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Anount repaid by third party         -25.15      -3.09
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3,065.46  928.61
Total undisbursed                             2,007.20  370.66   2,377.86
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980.  P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                            114.8     17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 70.0       2.2      72.2
Total held by IFC                                   44.8     15.5       60.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   29.1           6.0      35.1



ANNEX II
-32-                         Page 5 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (319, 358, 400, 480,                          9-12
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984 and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)              12-13
Rural Development (946)                                                    13
Agro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                       14
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                       14-17
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                              17-18
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1254)                                               18
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   19
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                        19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                           19-20
Nutrition (1373)                                                           21
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                    21-22
Transportation
Hlighways C1236 and 1696)                                                  22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    23
Ports (1337)                                                               23
Tourism (479)                                                                24
Urban Development (1336 and 1653)                                           24-25
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                 25
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of proje.cts in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion. Consequently, the closing date of
December 31, 1980, has been postponed for two years to December 31, 1982.
All major contracts for civil works have been awarded. The total project
cost is currently estimated to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.  The total
project cost is currently estimated at $227 million, which is 38% above the
appraisal estimate. Disbursements are currently about 50% of the appraisal
estimate, but are expected to significantly increase in FY80/81. All major
contracts have been awarded and sufficient funds are allocated for the
programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 34                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors.  Disburse:nents are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
After an initial slow start in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation
System, which is to provide new irrigation facilities to transmigrants and
local farmers over a 3,500 ha area, good progress is being made in awarding
all major contracts, including the construction of a pumping station.  The
balance of the contracts are proposed to be awarded in FY80/81. When the
pumping station is completed and plant installed, water can be supplied to
part of the 3,500 ha area by December 1981, or at the latest by Miarch 1982.
The Sedeku Irrigation Rehabilitation and Drainage System is proceeding without
the Iragung Dam being built. The Government decided not to construct major
dams in Java, including the Iragung. This has required a review of the
designs and a revision of cost estimates to be incorporated in continuing
contracts and future works, thus causing further delays. Ten projects are
included for feasibility studies: three appraised by the Bank in June 1979 and
one recommended for financing by KfW.  Studies of the remaining seven projects
will be completed shortly. Because of the delays in project implementation,
the project is expected to be completed by March 1983, a delay of 21 months,
presuming no new constraints develop. It is expected the current closing date
of December 31, 1981 will have to be extended.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in iinplementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FYS0/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
Decemnber 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in March 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hlydrologic
Measurement Program, after initial inaction on the consultants work program,
and delay of one year in procurement of equipment, is now progressing well and



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26 pages
estimated to be completed by September 1982. Studies for a master plan for
the development of the Cimanuk River Basin were completed in January 1980 and
a final report is under preparation. Detailed designs of flood control works
of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and
construction is proceeding under Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation
conditions at the dam site and GOI's decision not to construct large dams on
Java this component is indefinitely postponed and an alternative use of loan
funds is under consideration.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 50,866 ha has been completed and the
balance of the area would be covered in three fiscal years 80/81 to 82/83.
The Cisedane drainage works have not commenced due to a delay in the
acquisition of construction to FY81/82, except one contract programmed to be
awarded in FY80/81. Completion of this component of the project is currently
estimated to be delayed by over one year subject to right of-way acquisition
being completed early 1981. Consultants for studies of tidal swamp areas and
drainage blocks are engaged and expected to be completed by July 1981 with a
delay of six to eighteen months compared to appraisal estimates. The project
is currently estimated to be completed by March 1984, a delay of one year.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Initial progress is satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for
the construction supervision and studies provided under the project. The
construction of river training works and flood protection levees under six
on-going contracts is progressing well and on schedule. Land acquisition for
the rights-of-way is being handled with the assistance of private land
surveying companies which has significantly reduced the time to about six
months. No further difficulties are foreseen for this aspect of the project.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on July 3, 1980.



- 36 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 26 pages
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Although there
are some temporary difficulties relating to completion of the palm oil mill
and rubber processing facilities, overall project performance remains very
satisfactory.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank RAkyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. While production will not be adversely affected
(replanting yields are higher), costs are estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% because replanting is more expensive due to inflation.
The project has made a significant impact on the private sector of the
Indonesian tea industry. The project training program is especially
noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000 smallholders through practical
village training schemes.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26 pages
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catLcer/carriers have been
ordered and are due to be delivered early 1981.  The quality of fishpond
lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is nIow
completed; results are patchy and arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage
is much less than appraisal forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details
not yet available, but inflation and the inability of smaller owners to
participate are probably the reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Although the project is still about eighteen months behind
schedule due to early slippage in implementation, since last year pe-
formance has shown considerable improvement. To date about 2,760 families
have moved into Baturaja, equivalent to 61% of the ultimate target. Construc-
tion of water supply reservoirs has accelerated and has reached 50% of target.
Contracts for construction of the last three villages have been signed; the
pasture development program is well established and cattle procurement has
restarted. The rubber planting is proceeding well and the croppinE ystems
trials are continuing satisfactorily. Funding is no longer a problem and dis-
bursements are in line with the revised schedule and have reached 51% of the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (i) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (ii) weak overall project organization and
management; and (iii) delays in contractor s and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project-s overall planting program is ahead of schedule in
PTP XI and in other estates almost on appraisal target. The conditions of the



- 38 -                 ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26 pages
plantations are good and preparations for the completion of the remaining
works well advanced. Construction of settler houses and roads is behind
schedule although less settlers are on the sites than targeted at appraisal.
In view of the recent amendments to the loan agreement, the managements of the
nucleus estates are now fully in command and speeding up the construction of
the houses for settlers. It is expected that the project will be completed
about the end of 1982 or one year later than expected. Disbursements are
below the appraisal estimate, but now acceleration is expected. The newly
established "Team Khusus" (Special Team) in the Directorate General of Estates
is of great assistance to the execution of the project.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is delayed. PTP IV management is undertaking the
acceleration of the civil works program. Tendering of main acess and primary
village roads is in process and works executed and supervised by Bina Marga
(Directorage General for Highway Construction) are expected to start early
1981. Upgrading of the Sungai Tiga Extension and Training Center is proceed-
ing expeditiously. The new management of PTP IV is endeavoring to accelerate
and improve project execution. Funds for executing the FY80/81 work program
are available in the approved budget. Preparation of the FY81/82 budget is
in process and its approval on time is expected.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start. Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV:  $99 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 11, 1980.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of late
approval and release of the first year's budget. There are no major problems
with the project at this stage and it is anticipated that about 75% of the



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26 pages
first year s planting program will be achieved. Disbursements in FY81 are
expected to reach US$3 million equivalent.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has just been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress is acceptable. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) civil works in Pangragajian have been
completed, in Margahayu are ahead of schedule, in Baruajak (all highland
vegetables) have been completed (slightly behind schedule), while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I rice and paliwija
crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of labor and difficulties in
procurement. Tenders for Sukamandi Phase II have been issued and contracts
have been awarded for field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles.
Tenders for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu are expected to
be issued shortly. In addition to 60 long-term fellowships abroad, 247 long-
term domestic fellowships have been arranged. Under the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) most of the equipment,
furniture and vehicles have been received and distributed to ten completed
agricultural information centers (AICs). Extension materials are being
produced and distributed from the AICs. Disbursements under the project are
improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit has been strengthened by creation of
new positions which brings the number of assistant directors to five,
divisional chiefs to four and section heads to eight. Due to a dearth of
suitable senior staff, one assistant director, two divisional chiefs and four
section heads are working on a part-time basis. Vacancies in the posts of
field extension workers (PPL) and subject matter specialists (PPS) in the
Other Islands are proposed to be filled up by recruiting PPLs from Java and by
upgrading suitable PPLs for appointment as PPSs. Construction of 165 new
Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and renovation of 52 RECs out of a total of 645
for 13 provinces have been completed. Progress of civil works has suffered
due to an initial delay in prefinancing, inflation and inadequate supervision.
Most of these problems have largely been overcome and all remaining contracts



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26 pages
are expected to be awarded by end-1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment
and furniture as well as in-service and overseas training are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of a national program for strength-
ening agricultural extension services in Indonesia. The project would cover
26 provinces of Indonesia, proceeding on a phased basis to expand the food
crops extension services to the 13 provinces excluded from the first phase,
to introduce: (a) a unified extension service for transmigration areas; and
(b) extension of technical recommendations covering smallholder estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries and soil conservation activities into the
extension program developed heretofore for food crops. An implementation
schedule for five years has been prepared. Standard bid documents for civil
works and procurement are in the process of finalization.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops. The
Project Implementation Unit has been strengthened by appointment of four
heads of the offices but one head of office and the project secretary are
yet to be appointed. A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of
directors for the Central Research Institutes and Research Institutes and
Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture, is expected to be
published shortly. Implementation schedules for the next nine years have been
prepared. Standard bid documents for civil works and procurement have been
finalized. Tender documents for civil works in six'location for which
provision has been made in the budget of 80/81 are in the final stage of
preparation and tenders are expected to be issued shortly.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Implementation of this project is behind schedule. The principal
reasons for delays are (i) the late release of project funds, and (ii) the
lack of appropriate salary scales conforming with government regulations.



- 41-
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26 pages
These factors have resulted in low morale of project staff and distrust on the
part of some farmers.  Disbursement conditionis have n(t yet been met due to
part-time rather than full-time projecL positionS.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressir.g satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technic<- assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, train g,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) are expected to be printed and delivered before the present closing
date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of the project
and inflation since 1973.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26 pages
Credit No. 869  Polytechnic:  $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, to improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices and to assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC),
six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include
technical assistance and associated studies. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making good progress. Staff appointments follow
the appraisal schedule. Site grading for the TEDC and the Bandung polytechnic
has been completed. Construction of the TEDC and the six polytechnics has
started. Equipment for the TEDC has been awarded. The expert services and
fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component
after initial delays is now making good progress.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE),
Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN),
are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
respectively for four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) and two Faculties of
Technology in Teacher Training Colleges (FKTs) for MOE; 17 new Vocational
Training Centers and 25 mobile training units for MOM; and the principal
civil service training institute in Indonesia (LAN). The Project suffered
initial delays due to slow site acquisition and late contracting agencies.
Additional delays due to slow awarding of contracts for physical facilities,
late release of budget funds, late ministerial approval and slow settlement of
contractors claims to adjust contract prices for the 1978 Rupiah devaluation:
all these reflect limited management capacity. As of now, the MOE component
is nearly completed; all but one TTC are in operation and about $11 million of
equipment (93%) has been contracted. The MOM component has progressed slowly,
resulting in a 2-year delay. About 60% of civil works have been contracted
and 31% of equipment has been awarded. The LAN-s civil works are only 20%
complete, and estimated to be completed by mid-1981, two and a half years
behind the appraisal estimate. Procurement of furniture and equipment follow
the civil works schedule. The technical assistance program for all project
components is being satisfactorily completed. Loan disbursement has improved
significantly in the last six months but overall delays required a
postponement of the closing date by two years to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 35% of civil
works have been awarded and 30% completed. Corresponding percentages for



- 43-                 ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26 pages
equipment are 40 and 28. Five more civil works contracts are being awarded
during July 1980, and the remaining six sites are being acquired. The staff
training program is on schedule and development of new curricula and instruc-
tional materials is progressing satisfactorily. Special seminars and courses
for administrators have been conducted and 60 members of the national team
of 150 educators have been appointed as disseminators to overcome slow adjust-
ment at the institutional level to new curricula and teacher training methods
developed under the project. The technical assistance program is on schedule
and successful. Despite earlier delays and low disbursements (35% of
appraisal estimate), the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of
the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, four
have been completed. The extension to the existing Jakarta center is 50%
completed and the Samarang center is 10% completed; both centers will be ready
by the end of 1980. All furniture and equipment have been ordered; 10% is
already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this year. About 80% of
the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets, production and
distribution of pretested learning materials have started, and 1,500 learning
funds are being distributed to selected learning groups. The technical
assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually replacing foreign
consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this year and are
expected to reach $4.5 million or 72% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. It
finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion and relocation of
26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 existing agricultural
in-service training centers; and the construction and furnishing and equipping
of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricultural in-service training
centers. It also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation. Physical implementation is
generally on schedule. A number of problems affecting educational aspects are
emerging; action is being taken to prevent them impeding project progress.
The fully staffed Project Implementation Unit is operating effectively.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980;  Effective Date:  January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan has just declared effective.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Disbursements on this project have been somewhat slower than anti-
cipated due to delays in placing orders for the third lot of equipment.
These orders have now been placed and on the basis of contracted deliveries,
the situation is expected to improve. Physical progress has been
satisfactory on extension of the 20 kV distribution lines, but very slow on
the installation of the 20 kV stepdown cubicles. Delay is due to
difficulties in acquisition of substation sites. The closing date has just
been postponed from March 31, 1981 to December 31, 1981 in order that
disbursements can be completed.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial
operation around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but
only 3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system has been
completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. Delays in award of contracts for civil works
caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract awards by GOI
have resulted in a three-month delay in the construction program. This will
delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set which is now expected in
August 1982.



45 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Contracts for turbine generators, ancillary plants, piling work,
and civil construction have all been signed. Bid documents for steelworks
and cladding were issued in August and are being evaluated. The tender
documents for marine works have been delayed dkik- to a change in the design
concept. The revision in the scope of the marine works will increase
original appraisal estimates and final cost estimates are being worked out.
Schedules are being revised in order to minimize dielays. It is expected
that the overall delay in the commissioning date for the first unit will be
about three months. No delay is expected in the scheduled commissioning
date of the second unit.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This loan has only recently been declared effective. Tenders for
EHV lines and substations were issued in July 1980; bids were received in
December 1980. The issue of the documents was about ten weeks behind
schedule. Aerial survey has been completed. Profiling and tower spotting
in the field have commenced. Land for substations at Suralaya, Ungaran and
Gandul substations has been purchased. No delay is expected in the land
acquisition for the other substation at Bandung and tower location    Design
and specifications for the Java control center are being finalized,
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date: -June 30,
1987
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation.  Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun. The closing date
of this loan has just been postponed by six months to June 30, 1981, in
order that procurement under an existing contract can be completed.



- 46 -                 ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. GOI has
agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export
Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing
date of the credit was therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982
and the EPZ is expected to be completed within this period.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets



- 47 -                ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26 pages
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project is expected to be
completed in 1981. Because of delays in the signing of the computer
contract and in order to allow sufficient time for its purchase, install-
ation and subsequent disbursement, it is now clear that final disbursements
will not be completed until about mid-December 1981. The Closing Date has
therefore been postponed until December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26 pages
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
As a result of recently strengthened management, the pace of
implementation is beginning to pick up in most components. The new
campuses of the Food Technology Development Center (FTDC) and the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN) were completed and
formally opened in December 1980. Consultants and equipment for these
centers are arriving, but further FTDC procurement has been held up due to
procedural complications in the Ministry of Education. New staff posts have
been created and fellowships awarded, although both at a slower rate than
foreseen at appraisal. Research projects are underway, but for CRDN a long-
term research program remains to be formulated. Field activities of the
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP) are underway in some 90
villages, but operations are hampered by lack of special equipment.
Evaluations of NIPP process and impact are planned for late 1980. Their
results will largely determine the extent of NIPP modification needed and
the scope for (and pace of) NIPP expansion given the Government's current
commitment for a massive extension of a simpler community nutrition program
delivered through the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN)
and the Ministries of Health, Religion and Agriculture to cover 41,000
villages by early 1984 awith assistance from UNICEF and USAID. Anemia
Control activities in plantations in East Java, North Sumatra and South
Sulawesi are progressing as scheduled, and productivity resurveys are
planned for September/October 1980. The home and village garden program
exceeded the target coverage (by 72) of 108 villages, and will be expanded
on the basis of a master plan currently under preparation. Nutrition
communication materials are ready for reproduction and distribution; their
effectiveness will be evaluated in mid-1981. Considerable savings are
expected under the project; the Government has prepared a package of
proposals in line with existing component objectives and activities. These
proposals will be reviewed during the next mission.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.



4                      ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation, of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the
parallel Canadian project will shortly be available, by which time
BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have installed color photo processing equipment and to
have fully trained specialized teams of operatives in the various map
production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Assuming the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) takes the agreed
actions to deal with design changes, the only problem remaining is that some
DGH payments to contractors are beginning to be in arrears due to underesti-
mates of fiscal year requirements; this may again affect physical progress
after a dramatic improvement since December last year. A recent mission dis-
cussed the issue again with GOI, and requested a solution. Overall, the
project is 76% complete (July 1980) compared to 55% (December 1979). Project
completion is still about 24 months behind due to initial start-up delays,
poor performance by a few road contractors (contracts cancelled and awarded
to second lowest bidders), and GOI will need to request a two-year extension
of the Loan's Closing Date to December 31, 1982. According to cost estimates
available, there may be a surplus of about $8-14 million in the loan, which
could be used as follows: (a) adding justified works to existing contracts
(logical extensions) where contractors are performing well, designs are
available and the works can be completed in about 1-1/2 years, within the new
closing date; and/or (b) increasing the disbursement rate for construction but
not to exceed the total foreign exchange cost. DGH is now updating the
project cost estimate, together with proposals for utilization of any loan
balance.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1,-1979;
Effective Date:  Augtist 28,-1979, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is still about one year behind in implementation which
cannot be regained. Nine road betterment contracts, totalling 531 km out of
the 800 km planned, were awarded. The balance is soon to be proposed for
tendering. The bridge replacement program is more than a year behind schedule
but the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) has agreed on steps to initiate
it. DGH is evaluating equipment tenders for the eight Provincial Public Works
Department (DPUP) programs, with delivery expected in March/April 1981, but
recent developments regarding the content of civil works in these programs
raise some issues. Consultants are in place for construction supervision,
project monitoring, management assistance, a study of the construction
industry and one of three consultancies supervised by the Ministry of
Communications. Terms of reference and short lists of firms have been agreed
and invitations are soon to be issued for consultancies to assist road
contractors and consulting firms, and the implementation of the eight DPUP
programs. Little action has been taken by DGH on other consultancies, e.g.,
remaining feasibility studies and detailed designs of additional road better-
ments, urban planning, and equipment management, but DGH will soon submit
proposals to the Bank for review.
Marine Transport
Loan No.-1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20; 1976;
Effective Date:  October8, 1976; Cloging Date:
December 31;-1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on
the price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979
and 80% of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN,
is reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is
being regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its
Bank-financed operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line,
accounting for about half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses.
A condition of a recent subloan from P.T. PANN requires the early preparation
by P.T. PANN of a financial recovery plan with consultancy assistance. The
loan is expected to be fully committed by March 31, 1981, and the Closing Date
has just been extended by one year to December 31, 1981.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 1978
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works finance
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37%
completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the telephone network,
infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The hotel school and the practice
hotel are operating. Final designs for village improvements in Bualu and for
the new road from Bualu to Benoa are finished. The access road to Nusa Dua
from the airport is finished and the Denpasar by-pass road is scheduled for
completion shortly. The market for tourism to Bali has held up well in 1980;
hotel occupancy in international standard hotels exceeds 75%. The final
designs and tender documents for the first hotel at Nusa Dua to be built by
the national airline (Garuda) are complete, and construction is scheduled to
start shortly. The Bali Tourism Development Board (BTDB) is evaluating
additional minor infrastructure investments at Nusa Dua and possible
participation in several hotel projects to utilize the uncommitted portion of
the Credit.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and. 374 ha
in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26 pages
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant,
deep wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban
transport study for Jakarta under the technical assistance component, the
project progress is essentially complete. Upgrading costs for the program
have been within the appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 88 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date:  September 26, 1979;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The loan
became effective on September 26, 1979. The kampung improvement is
proceeding satisfactorily in Jakarta and Surabaya but start-up delays of
eight to ten months had been evidenced in the implementation of solid waste
management and drainage programs. In the secondary cities, the kampung
improvement program is now proceeding smoothly following a six to eight
months start-up delay during the first year implementation period (April 1,
1979-March 31, 1980).
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26 pages
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan was declared effective on February 29, 1980, five months
behind schedule. The main project is about six months behind schedule.
Design work is proceeding and procurement documents are being processed.
Tenders were called for an initial purchase of pipe and fittings and these
were opened in June 1980. Some other scheduled tenders may have to be
postponed because the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE) failed
to request sufficient government funds in the current fiscal year ending
March 31, 1981. DSE is exploring an alternative funding source to
circumvent this problem. DSE is overextended because of the extensive
water supply activity in Indonesia and the numerous aid offers and foreign
participation in the sector. It is at present in the process of increasing
its staff by 160 persons and also recruiting the services of a Resident
Management Specialist. It is to be hoped these two steps may help improve
its internal efficiency.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         18 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                       Cipta Karya, with
consultant assistance
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:        February 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  May 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        March 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             July 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOI and each
Project City, would be a condition of disbursement for the
program in each city (para. 47);
(b) The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and
PERUMNAS would be a condition of disbursement against that
component (para. 48); and
(c) A requirement that interested firms would have to remedy
deficiencies before prequalifying for the urban mapping
component (para. 56).



IBRD 15201
SEPTEMBER 1988
MAL      "V ~~~~~~~a yIN DONE SIA
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
94 UMIITRi                                                                                                                PONTIANAK  AND BANJARMASIN
-1                   2          2         4          5 KILOMETERS
E z=: *; s S l ~~~~~~BANJARMASlN  
KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
PHASE 1 1980/811
PHASE I (1981/82)
PHASE  II (1982/831
PHASE IV (91983~184
R- OADS
C - ITY BOUN DARY
PONTIANAK
KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
PHASE 1 19800811 
PHASE 11(1981/82)        /,
___PHASE III (1982/83) 
1 PHASE IV (1983/84)                            \
RISERS                                                                                              Y-
-   - CITY BOLUNDARY                                         \-                                M " *                                                    …
0         1         2 T        3         4          5 KILOMETERS   K.                    , AAS.,:  .   . 'A __,
2               3MILES






IBRD 15202
SEPTEMBER 19BO
AYSA _;n-rm                                                                    FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
P. n         AHn,'s
|AL .   rmo                                                                             PALEMBANG AND SAMARINDA
SAMARINDA
| N                               ,,E/ VF <    AMPUNG MPROVEMENT PROGRAM
N.                      |                            /          /     Et- \ I \ / / PHASE I (19801811
1         7/D                                                                                  g I J        ,/ ;\ 9 _ PHASE I1(1981/821
PHASE III (1982/83)
7     $      > J <s+<'~) = PHASE IV (1983/84)  SITES AND SERVICES
RIVERS
AVAIL  pP                         '..,~~~~~P  -,
PALE                 G 1  2  3  A       S KILOMETERt     d v                                               2
I/IlO¢C§rXth@W,~/.~fU.Of                I~I~                                      ' II                                                      IA K   I  PR.
RA ,~.S 2  3                 MILES
~~~~IIIII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ~0123  MILESII                                                                                     A  II'I                                            2               3MI LES






IBRD 15203
SEPTEMBER 1980
, <  ,MA\A>A          ESIB r             /       f            =INDONESIA
: BSSB                                                   >                                          FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.Xais43^ pt  S ff Cs,   B~SS: \PADANG  AND YOGYAKARTA
$ INOO/UDESR.      /)                      9    <      1           /     t         KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENTPROGRAM          YOGYAKARTA
PHASE I (1980/81_                  SITES AND SERVICES
2 \ /7 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHASE 11 (1981/82)                                           R OA DSY
PHASE III 01982/B3)                 RAILWAYS
PHASE IV I1BB3/84)                 RIVERS
f    W   W   X  _   ROADS    - -  CITY BOUNDARY
= \ A = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVIVRS m nddh
5orgSmEled*th8¢swtli   fir9<sS   \   I   2  3  4    5 KMS        0        1       2       3           4    5KILOMETERS
mvœmnmym /mwemldm>mt \Vi 0  0    X                 ; S)                                   o 1  2  3     MILES  O   1  2  3 MILES






_______P __________________ O____________ ._=_:_.__                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD  15204
SEPTEMB.ER 1980
INDONE SI A
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7->.,,"Se:  /i:t;.= ew:: ibaA  \1DENPASAR
DN PASAR                                                                                                                    DENPASAR
SITESANDSERVICES
KAM?)SNG IMPROVEMENT PRIOTRAM
.   :   7:   :   -   '   \            / /  /                                                                                         1   1    4           >                    1> 1  PHASE   11  (19ar/a2}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PH SE 1   19 2/3
9;  J:  2  7 00 0 ; \X SANGLAHKlpD L N 2 } / tx g X 3 Vl/)a L2 PHAEE9219E3/E4)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IHSE I 193/8
-     PRnOPSED DRPASAR Kv4A SAOPM MARAWMAIR   MROA  (-
E05 =tPlO G$ATE NESE    R000El E0        0E  ,00        ,      A k              /         f          V     \/ J                                                                                        S        \                             CITN BOUNDAR Y
FVNI~PINGSTATIONS
-EXIST.R:;9M:N  :f!? ..   AT| >IM (     f/. l I 
:   CS \ \  //   \   ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~ rJ                                ) k               \{ k V ~~~~~~~~LUMj TANG   \9,         IA
- _-OG   A B,,'S(                                                                                                                                                                                                         t      
-    0XI9rIISGM4ET0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAIN)UA    MN
o   I   2   8   4   4 SILRMCTRRS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ SIPSN.R
0:      1      2      II AltOS'@                                                                                                                         \7                t         l\8                         \                    9       )
,-'                        I                           r                                                               ''    \          /              \                    E\          )                    S     '~~~~~~~~~~~OS~IC~.C, 
>   2            r  SAE;1t'StRA l.wDONES/A                \     \      |     l            \                             t ~~~~~~~~~1      ONE'
bPurr   Luhur  /      \                /                             /5     ,                                          \      ]                  |                         p  .  s         SA*?rJ,GEWA   /rSDZEST4~~~~~~~~~~~SNGLA   KI
tn   A  N  \ f X pa m:T.  S
V         9PE aTu                                                                           rra7Ear-s;wr _h _hbr                     \                               <    r|>g,,, ,    \  \            y  z                   w^*u?;=v= 
(~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~EAGEH 1 v-  U1.I  3, ODiMA h 1.0N. 
0  --- ?>i =-iS"m'b' / / \ / X 0 1 02 3 0Sh 5KwIS00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           K






IBRD 15205
. 1%  OONHCMASA   J            o '   PHtItNESS                                                                                                                           SEPTEMBER 1980
, MAAAYSIA   IEUt4                                                                                                            I N  D O N  E S I A
~~,  MALAn'SIA~~                 PAVAICOOCAN
FOURTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SArA -,a,  9.AwMruAS SLSITE  AND  SERVICES
DENPASAR SITE LAYOUT
_y__:*kARTressASEiA  *s         R    "D rD SEA   4
0.40                                                      <,, >  ,                                                PLOT 6x13m  (1217 units)
rJgttP ri _,3 4 m.ltttS PLOT 7.6 x 13rn(703.,nits)
I-V/AV OtTA N                4                                                       |                                      ' =-    PLOT 8x 20m (518 units)
._______________________________________|___________________|________  PLOT   10    x   20m     1287   units)
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank's staff exclusively for                                                                                                          Ij   STK and POLIKLINIK
the convenience of the readers of
the report to which it ,s attached                                                                  Possibe tu, one psi                           S.D
The denominations used and the                                                                                                                    SMP and SMA
boundaries shown on this map                                                                                                                      SM adSA
do not imply, on the part of the                                                       _                                                          SUB- PUSKESMAS
World Bank and its affiliates, any                                                                                          IW
judgment on the legal status of                                                                                                                   WORKSHOPS
any territory or any endorsement                                                                                                            FlI   WA RUNG
or acceptance of such boundaries.~SBCMERILCNB
~~~77                                     U ~~~~~~~~ PASAR
~~~                            A ~~~~~ PLAY GROUND
kJ~~~~~I                             A ~~~~ PARK and SPORTS FIELD
r                                  L        J                SI      EBO-           NDSITE BOUNDARY
77                                              ES 7\  METERS
i/flmi F'7                                                                                                                                                     PASEIP
PHASE                                                                                                                                                    P
D~~
" Ft~ ~ ~ ~~---S_
---:2  '                               -            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Accms to Jatan Ima  Bonju






IBRD 15206
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Infrastructur    I mprovements  to 
(PALEMBJANG)N
ROADS, FOOTPATH, SIDE DRAINS TO BE IMPROVED
\\\:\   n   4  t    tu/   ///                                          ~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED NARROW FOOTPATH AND DRAINS
\\ >    \A/                                 |                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSrD WATER PIPE
\\\\   % X <                                                        @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUBLIC STAND PIPE
\i\\ C6 ¢ > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOUR SEAT MCK WITH LEACHING FIELD
rhnmphaP beNlpnpandbylhe  \fl|k\//   (                                                              *     ~~~~~~~~~~~~GARBAGE COLLECTION BOX
Worss'eme5statrenciva1volwfor \'v\ >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ | BRIDGES
bou dimppshowOnthism P  \\  /      l            0    20    40    60    80   XD0                 -   -   _ ~~~~~~KIP BOUNDARIES
WotidBm*@tnhdei/elr@/eslt epsos  11 F                                  ~~METERS
nracpnc f -nh hude           



